ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.1.0	Good morning. We take back the plenary, during which it will have a place, after this session of control, the appearance of the President of the Generality in relation to the evolution of the pandemic. Let's remember that this pandemic has already..., affected 914,367 Catalans and accumulated 23,918 people killed as a result of the covid. At these times there are 123 patients who have entered the ICU and 417 who are also admitted, affected by the disease. The good news is also six million people who are already vaccinated with a full schedule. We have it here today, in this appearance. And today, too, is especially grateful for starting the Ple remembering the birth anniversary of a struggle for rights and freedoms, such as the Neus Català. We present his various masters, but above all, that which we should remember in a special way, that is: "Freedom is what we still do not have won and for which we must always fight. We will begin the monitoring session by making it clear, too, that the Government has requested, once all the parliamentary groups have been informed, that the question to the Government to answer orally in full on the contribution that the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert will make to the municipalities of the country, can be substantiated as the last of the oral questions to the Government. And since all groups have expressed their compliance with this change, if there is no objection, the oral question that corresponds to number 4 will be substantiated at the end, after question number 14. So let's start with the questions to the government. [[Ask the Government about the expansion of the airport Josep Tarradellas de Barcelona - el Prat]] [[310-00088/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the enlargement of the airport Josep Tarradellas de Barcelona - el Prat. The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Martín, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.2.0	Thank you, President. Vice President Puignero, good morning. What value does it make of the capture of its member of the government, Esquerra Republicana, for what it does to the expansion of the airport of Prat?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.3.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.4.0	Thank you, President; very good morning. Good morning, Congressman. In any case, you'll have to ask the Republican Left. Jo, what I'm going to answer, anyway, is what the government's captivating is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.5.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.6.0	Well, thank you, Vice President, for your honesty. Obviously, they don't agree with this. But in any case, what is also obvious is that Catalonia cannot afford to lose more opportunities, more investments. Losing an investment opportunity of 1,700_million euros is a genuine irresponsibility. For this reason, I am pleased today that I do not have to ask you for your time with the Institute of New History and ask you for something that is much more productive, as is the agreement reached by last week's plenary, its parliamentary group, Junts per Catalunya, the Socialists Group and our group to, precisely, demand the resumption of this agreement between the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generality in order to bring about a reversal, an expansion of the Prat airport, which is essential for the Catalan economy. From this point of view, Catalonia cannot afford to lose more opportunities. Businesses run away from an environment, from an ideological climate that is absolutely contrary to the creation of jobs, which is absolutely contrary to economic progress. And, therefore, I am pleased that in this case, if not, a part of the Government has understood that they must leave behind their ideological threads and phobias and make politics of things. Real policies. For this reason, when we talk about the real problems of the citizens of Catalonia, that some people lack this argument and consider that what really matters are other questions, such as amnesty, self-determination, etc., we defend, precisely, talking about these things. That it is possible to reach agreement on these questions. We celebrate that Catalonia may at some point have some consensus on issues that are essential for the Catalan economy, because we understand that it is the best for Catalonia's citizens. Foreign investors do not understand this ideological climate, which is contrary to the business, which is contrary to the creation of work places and, therefore, we celebrate, which, if not, you have accepted our premise of defending this investment as a fundamental investment for the Catalan economy. The President said that today is the anniversary of the birth of the Neus Català. In any case, obviously, when she says we haven't won the freedom yet, I would remind her that today is also the anniversary of the October 34 Fets, a few busy days for the history of Catalonia. And I would remember what Gaziel said: "Separatism is capable of creating an episodic catastrophe in Catalonia. We don't believe in more episodic catastrophes and go to things. We work, we work for the future of Catalonia and for the sake of the citizenry, of the conjunction of the citizenry of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.7.0	To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.8.0	Yes, thank you, President. Congressman, first of all I'm glad you're starting to leave the chrism and start making construction contributions, huh? , building for this country. And in this sense, in the airport camp. Miri, the government is where we are, huh? We're betting because this country has an intercontinental airport. We bet, too, because Catalonia has an airport system where there are Reus and Girona, also with complementary airports. And for that reason, we are also very pleased that the reversal of the high-speed downloaders from these two airports is being maintained in this sense. We bet, too, because this is an airport that respects the environment as much as it is a green airport. That is why we have also put the European Union's guarantee in such a way as to make it possible. And also this government bets that this airport is managed from Catalonia. And this I think is a differential fact that separates us from you. You want to continue to manage the airport from six hundred kilometers. We believe that a shared management in Catalonia, between the Government of the Generality and local administrations, also business entities, etcetera, would surely be the best formula for having a competitive airport in our country. And let's just say... let's ask them a question: Does anyone have any doubts that if Catalonia was an independent state we wouldn't have an intercontinental airport? Anyone here have any doubts? Therefore, just's, the fact of belonging to Spain still submet us, submet to be debating what type of airport we can hold for our country. Counselor Giró, recently, taught us a report, or showed us a report, presented us a report on what is the fiscal deficit that Catalonia has: 18,000_millions, annual. We're talking about a 1.700_million reversal now. It's obvious that if Catalonia has a state, it has a state that is in favor of it, so that problem would be solved years ago. And if not, I'm very happy to keep talking about the airport. This week I'm going to appear in committee and, therefore, we can continue to talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.9.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the state of the Barcelona World project. [[Ask the Government about the state of the Barcelona World project]] [[310-00087/13]] The question is posed by Mr Marc Parés, of the Parliamentary Group in Comú Pomera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Last week, the president in the general policy debate seemed to tell us that the Hard Rock project was not part of the new governance plan of this legislature. I wanted to ask you, what is the commitment of the Government of the Generalitat currently with the Barcelona World project, whether he intends to pull forward or not. And, if so, which point is it? I say this because on September 30th of last year, the government approved an extension to make the purchase of land effective by the Incasòl to the Caixa, before December 15th of 2020, which did not happen. They then told us that, as the court had declared to no one the urban master plan that you yourselves had drawn up, you were giving a year of terms to modify this urban master plan and then to make the purchase of these lands effective, which has not yet happened. Taking into account this context, taking into account what the President of the Generalitat said last week, which we do not have – he has now told me the contrary – the modification of the approved urban master plan, nor the purchase of land for girls, I ask you if we can give up the Barcelona World project permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.11.0	To answer the words of the Vice President of the Government and Councillor... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, they told me who was responsible was the vice president. Don't you? So, the economic advisor will answer, Mr. Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.12.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Miri, President Aragonès, the one who commented to the president of his parliamentary group, concretely, was that there was no novelty. And that, he told her a week ago. From one week to today, there's no news. There was no change and therefore I can't say it because there is no other novelty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.13.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.14.0	Well, thank you, counselor. Therefore, we see that this current Government of the Generality continues to compromise with the Barcelona World project. A project announced by President Mas, nearly two years ago; almost a decade ago. Miri, to the government of Mr. Mas, as a matter of fact, what could not be denied to him was the coherence between the speech, blatantly neoliberal and business friendly and the receipts he donated. But you come to say that you are making a new Republican Generality here, that will drive great economic and social transformations, and it turns out that the receipts are the same as the past. The receipts from the past two years, doing what has always been done in this country, is to say, for decades, that they are the great speculative and urban projects. And they do it as if in these last two years nothing has happened. As if you haven't flashed a climate emergency in our faces. As if we're not getting out of a pandemic where one of the things we'd have to learn, right, is that putting all the eggs in the monoculture cyst is a mistake. So it seems really incredible to me that I'm continuing to bet on this project. What we're asking is that I learn from past mistakes. And now, they're still in time, so they're going to rectify. And that if they really want to be transformers, that they start to change the model of regional development, that they do it at Camp de Tarragona, that they change... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.15.0	Time's up, Mr. Parés. To answer, you have the word Counselor Turned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.16.0	Thank you, President. Miri, I'm so glad you're here in Comú. We can claim President Mas. I mean, what things do we really have to see, huh? What things do we really have to see? No, he's fine, because he also made an important political arrival that we should also remember. Because, listen, at the time many things were criticized and left many positive things. So welcome to the club. I'm so glad. Second place, listen, I didn't say I was buried. Here until he's dead, he's not buried. I have to say something. Look, Junts, there are sometimes reports interested in saying that we're not at all. We're not at all. We are the ones of yes on condition, yes on condition. And so, this project, when it comes up, if it's up, because I also have to tell you one thing: let's not start arguing about things that we don't have on the table. We're already after a little bit. We'd have to go after a little bit. We've already been discussing several weeks of a project that doesn't exist – because it doesn't exist anymore, right? the airport, at the moment, at least, doesn't exist. Listen, I recommend that we discuss when it is fully confirmed that there is a project. This, first of all, because no, I don't know if the investor group is really interested in this project today. When you're there, we'll do one thing, we'll make an impact, do you hear we're always talking about listening to the territory? With all the projects, huh? I've heard him say it very often in common. So, we listen to the territory, we talk to the territory, and we see what's in it. The country model of En Comú We may not know what it is; mine is from a country alive, with many projects, with a socio-economic balance and where people can take every morning and get out to earn their lives. Tothom, not only in Barcelona, also at the conjunct of the territory. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.17.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on language policy to Catalan universities. [[Ask the Government about language policy to Catalan universities]] [[310-00099/13]] The question is posed by Ms. Lorena Roldán of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Geis, September 8th, in Els Matins on TV3 you qualify the Association for a bilingual school as radical and fascist. Look, this civil society entity is dedicated to defending legality and democratic principles. To defend the law, for you, is to be a fascist, Mrs. Geis? It also defends the rights of pupils to be enrolled in their mother tongue. Is that also fascist, Mrs. Geis? I remind you that even UNESCO has recognized that mother-tongue schooling is fundamental to educational development. So, careful with what he answers to me, it's not going to be that Unesco also ends up being a facsimile. Look, the EBA also ensures that the sentences are complied with, basically because you and your colleague, Mr Gonzàlez Cambray, go beyond the rights of students without scrutiny. Look, you have disobeyed the requirement of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia regarding the language of the examinations of selectivity not once, not once, but twice, Mrs Geis. Do you think you are above the law and justice? No, it's just that I'm going to call it the super democrat, because you're handing out fascist notebooks and then it turns out you have very little attachment to legality and justice. This body also defends the equal opportunities of pupils. Do you not, counsel, advocate that all students have the same opportunities? Don't you want that for all the students, Mrs. Geis? And, look, now the Association for the Bilingual School is also defending the rights of students and teachers at Catalan universities, following your announcement that you say you are going to check in which language classes are taught. Turns out the nationalist siege goes one step further. Now you are no longer content only to pursue and want to eradicate the Spanish in school, but now you also intend to do so in college. Is this your language policy, Mrs Geis? Look, this not only violates the rights of students and teachers, it not only violates legality, it not only violates the basic pedagogical criteria, but it also goes against the prestige of Catalan universities and can also discourage us from attracting foreign students who are basic to the survival of many of the master's degrees offered. What you do, Mrs Geis, is the anti-university and, look, your linguistic policy and your famous immersion in the end does not intend to encourage Catalan, what you intend to do is to eradicate the Castilian and it is clear that in this task everyone who makes it difficult will be pointed out, stigmatized and insulted. First, we were the constitutionalist parties, now the entities of civil society and, if I am wrong, Mrs Geis, retract yourself right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.19.0	To answer, you have the word of Ms Gemma Geis, University and Research Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.20.0	Good morning, Congresswoman Roldán, Miri, do you know what's going on? That a fetishist attitude is to appoint teachers. And I remember how you and your former political party leader, Ciutadans, Albert Rivera, tweeted some photos of some of the teachers of the Palau Institute, of Sant Andreu de la Barca, to whom he did not open any dispatches or the prosecution and I still hope you will forgive me. This, this counseling won't tolerate it. What we cannot tolerate is that you vacate the courts of justice and appoint the selectivity teachers to identify the students. No, you will never be able to prove that there is no report identifying a student who is doing the test in the castle. We have a very clear direction from the council. It's a course that goes through rigor, it's a course that goes through consent. It's a course that goes to defend the right language, which means that students when they are enrolled, the file of the assignment contains a language and, as such, this right language needs to be insured, because this is a normal country and it's a normal university. From here, the door of the council is open to everyone, but it is much easier to go to the courts of justice to achieve this which the Parliament of Catalonia is not able to vote democratically. And you already know that you feel much more comfortable with this Spanish justice, making extradition chants of President Puigdemont, but then it turns out that we trust in European justice, which is what locks the door to them. Therefore, they will not succeed, they will not succeed with lies or with criminal requirements altering the proper development of the university course. In Catalonia, there are standards of cohabitation at the university and what needs to be done is to age because the language rights of students who enroll in an assignment are complete. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.21.0	He asked the Government to reply in the plenary on the rolling stock service. [[Ask the Government about the rolling stock service]] [[310-00097/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Gloria Freixa, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.22.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, I think we would all agree if we said that the Catalans who travel by train arrive late at work, that the Catalan students who travel by train arrive late at the universities and arrive late at the schools, and especially these days that 400,000 people have been affected by a vacancy that we want to denounce from here that has not been completed nor the minimum services, that people do not know who trains or when passes. And all that for a lack of reversal, for a deficit that we flush. And, as the advisors have rightly said, Catalans generate as much wealth as they do to have infrastructure on the rise of any of the best European countries. But it's not like that. The Catalans are a mere electoral promise. Ábalos : 6,300_million euros, and who bought it? We are already from Zapatero, 2008: €4,000_million in Catalan roll reverse, fourteen_per_cent executed– fourteen_per_cent. Rajoy, 2017: rain of millions – zero reversed. Deficit is, indisputably, a poor quality. It's years of oblivion, lack of investment, incomplete promises. And it's more, experts warn us that the landing is such that, even though it's now, we'll cheat years to be on top of what we deserve. The comparison is hateful between Renfe and the Railways of the Generality of Catalonia: Railways, in only two years, 200_million more travellers per year; punctuality, 99.49_per_cent, at the level of the best countries in Europe. So if you don't know any more, maybe we'll just have to tell them that we're moving on now. Joan Canadell, president of the chamber, said he denounced it before the Greuges Synod: the transposition did not actually take place, they did not transfer the assumption. Renfe's still feeling who's putting those money back. So, we're asking that this be over. Vice-President, we know it's a matter of concern to him, we know it's a matter that he has repeatedly denounced. And today we come to ask him what do you think of this nasty rolling management. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.23.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.24.0	Yes, thank you, President. Member, these days we are seeing how obviously many citizens of this country have been affected by their right to mobility, and therefore are not being guaranteed enough that today is also an essential social right for many of the issues you have commented on: to go to school, to work, etc. It is obvious – it is obvious – that the State does not take care of public services in Catalonia in terms of mobility. You can do a very simple exercise, can't you? One day I take a train from the Generality Railway and one day I take a train from Rodalies Renfe, and they see the difference: they see the difference in management, they see the difference in punctuality, in cleanness, in security, in frequency, in efficiency, in short, right? Therefore, listen, neither care nor transfer those servants who do not care – that sounds very much to me around the gardener's dog. And, therefore, we, from the Government of Catalonia, will demand and continue to demand this transfer, that some say it was already done in 2009. But, of course, a transition in 2009 where neither the lives nor the chains nor the stations nor the trains, nor the staff or the financing were passed, so tell us what kind of transition this is. A transition in which only the times can be managed and something else... is impossible to give this good service to the citizens of our country. So let's ask and do..., and this government and I personally will make a battle horse from Rodalies Renfe's transfer to Catalonia. It is an indispensable transposition to guarantee a first-class social right in the 21st century. We have the experience to do so and we have also gained credibility: it is said Railways of the Government of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.25.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on open science. [[Ask the Government about Open Science]] [[310-00098/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Erra, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Geis, the pandemic has filled the cabdal import of policies in the field of research, and we have examples of this every day. Without going any further, a few days ago we read the news that the drug that ONCOLEG Josep Baselga brought to deal with cases of metastatic breast cancer is effective in a seventy-six per cent of cases, an unprecedented result. Cases such as these remind us every day of the importance of research to face the challenges we face and the need for institutions to make an ambitious research policy. We know that you, counsel, are fully engaged, and we have been able to prove these first months that you bring to the front of the Department of Research and Universities that your commitment to the strengthening of the research system and universities is total. Its is an environment that requires broad consensus, and we know that you are in favour of building complicity, building a strong alliance between the government, universities, research centres, ultimately, with all the agents of the knowledge system to move it forward. In this sense, the National Knowledge Society Pact, as a consensus instrument to establish a country strategy in R & D+I, is a key tool. One of the elements the pact establishes is that it is open science as a movement that seeks to make research more transparent, more accessible, more social and more collaborative. It is in this framework of the pact that it was agreed to define the actions needed to deploy a strategy of science that is open-ended and based on open access to publications and search data. From Juntas to Catalunya we believe in knowledge as a guarantor of an economy of added value that gives competitiveness, wealth and quality occupation. For this reason, it has our support for a comprehensive strategy of generation and transfer of knowledge, of which open science is a key word. That's why we're asking him today, counsel: what's his view of open science in Catalonia? And what is the performance of his department in this environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.27.0	To answer the word, Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.28.0	Yes; good morning, Congresswoman Erra. The truth is, yes, that this research... yesterday, before yesterday, he was talking to one of the great investigators in this country in the matter of cancer and explaining to me this arrival of Dr. Baselga and how he bet on this line. And, therefore, I think we all have to congratulate each other. But yes, in the knowledge economy the first subject is data and, therefore, in this country we must weave a sovereignty, also, to prepare ourselves for future pandemics, in which data are absolutely important for making good research and are a scientific infrastructure for the country. In this sense, both in the law of science that you are working as in the strategy of open science, that the law itself includes, what we want to do is take a step further in this scientific infrastructure that is the research data that researchers and researchers in this country must have in their grasp in order to be able to search and, then, better transfer. In this sense, there is an instrument that has the country or universities, which is the CSUC. The CSUC is the Consortium de Serveis Universitaris de Catalunya, which composes all the Catalan universities, and in this consortium there are different research information, such as the data portal of the research; there are doctoral theses in TDX, that is to say, open, you can consult; there is also a repository of research data. But we have to go one step further, huh? , and in this sense the CSUC is making a very clear bet to make and provide more research data and, therefore, generate this country infrastructure that we are asked to do, also, researchers and researchers. I would like to remind you that in the document Catalunya 2020, it also managed data and how to create this infrastructure..., referencing. In this sense, what we want to do from the CSUC is to enhance even more open access to publications; publish data in a way that is findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable, and also create a creation of infrastructures integrated into the European Open Science Cloud ecosystem, and also value scientific culture as a country's tool. I believe that a country that is based on the knowledge economy is a country where research and data must be this infrastructure, because it allows us to give better solutions to research and to researchers and researchers who are asking this country. This will be a culture and a key policy, the better data and the creation of policies to create this data hub that is available to researchers and researchers in this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.29.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the situation of the Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00089/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Jaume Butinyà, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.30.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I'd like to say that it's an honor to speak for the first time in front of this chamber as a deputy of the Republican Left of Catalonia. I also want to keep a record for the family of the dead agent yesterday, as well as for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, of which he was a member. Counselor, the crisis of the covid-19_ has evidenced the great task that has taken place this past year and a half as much of the emergence services as the bodies of the police of Catalonia, which have seen their workload increased, allocating a lot of resources to them and adapting their activity to the exceptional circumstances viscudes. In fact, a few days ago his public ugly department that the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra had devoted up to more than eighty-thousand foreign hours to strengthening the tasks of prevention and citizen security, as well as supporting the local police of the different Catalan municipalities. I would like to remind you that the Squadron Squadron Squadron has more than three hundred years of existence and that, with the assumption of the skills in the police field by the Generality in 1980, this Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron, Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron, Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squadron Squad That's why it's been forty years. Society is changing and it's a new impulse for the body. In the first place, I would like to rejoin him, facing the generational problem that affects a good part of his effects. Secondly, continue working to achieve the agreement pending with the State respecting early retirement. And, lastly, equip the body with human mediums and equipment suitable for the new reality. For all this, counselor, our group would like to know who are the actions that will take place shortly after the department to improve and meet the new needs of the Generality Police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.31.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.32.0	President, Member of Parliament, I would also like to start, although we had the opportunity to do so yesterday, but today in the control session, so I have a very special record for the agent who lost his life yesterday and for his family and for the whole of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. Indeed, the work they have done, which has been extraordinary throughout this pandemic, during the time of the cove and also during this summer, which has been especially difficult, reinforcing and supporting local police with public officials and also citizen security, must be appreciated. Indeed, up to eighty-thousand foreign hours have taken place during two months, only during two months, supporting local police and working in the public order service. Therefore, from this point of view, a very special grace, and also all the work they do every day. We try to be at your side, and there we are, word and word. Because things are written down, but also done, done. One is that it has explained from the outside hours during this summer and the other is, for example, that during 2020 four hundred vehicles arrived. Also, during this 21st, there will be four hundred more, and so will follow the coming year and the following, to modernize and equip our police officers with mediums. To announce, too, that before the summer will arrive the new uniformity. They have the same one from the inician; eleven_ thousand agents – eleven_ thousand. The new uniformity, more modern, more prepared for its needs. We have also reinforced many of the media to public officials, and also increased and reversed a very harsh economic situation of the Interior's assumption for many years, for many years. And also announce that the other day there was the incorporation, that begin dilluns, of 680 new agents. And announce, too, the contract for the coming year, and therefore the beginning of the tests, for 860 new agents at the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. That's how you help the Squad Mousses. That's how it's on the side of squadron moss, and also working for early retirement from squadron moss, which is a discrimination that I'm sure all groups will help us... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Councillor of Interior and this continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.33.0	He asked the Government to reply in the plenary on the effects on the consumer and the product texture of the increase in electricity prices. [[Ask the Government about the effects on the consumer and the product texture of the increase in electricity price]] [[310-00090/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Vilalta, Member of the Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Torrent. Today, at 21 hours, the price of the light will be placed in a new historical record and will reach up to 260_euros the megawatt/hour, a fact that is obviously lived with anguish for many of the families of our country. Let us remember that up to fifteen per cent of Catalan lars have suffered from poor energy, and while Endesa, Iberdrola and Naturgy have achieved a combined benefit of more than 5,800 million euros per year. It is indignant, and indignation grows with every new case of rotating doors. In the last four years, up to 12 high PP and PSOE charges have gone through some electrical boards, and the government of the state? So you're co-responsible and complicit. In fact, all part of the same scam: Government, PP and PSOE have privatized, came and dismantled public enterprises in the energy field. They've deregulated the system to leave the prices in the hands of the market, and they've left the market under the control of their friends. We don't resign. We didn't do it a few years ago when we approved the 24/2015 Law, which has put up more than 200,000 lights, or when we got the forgiveness of the historical debt that 35,000 families had with Endesa, or when we went..., or when we demanded we could have sovereignty and instruments close to a state in order to intervene the market. We don't resign. And that's why, from the Republican Left and other independenceist forces, sovereignists and left-wingers, we shout to the citizenry for the very 18th of October to respond to the chanting of the electric oligopolises with a big blackout and broken. We don't resign, and that's why we also commit to our government action. This must be the legislature of public energy, the result of the investment agreement with the CUP and already included in the government plan. A public energy that allows us to influence the prices of the market, which helps us to make the electrical sub-administration a truly public good, not a mechanism for extracting the yields of Catalan lars from the butxaques of the energetic oligopolis. We don't resign, and that's why, too, from Consum we consider it to be on the side of the citizenry to preserve all his rights. That's why, counselor, we want to know what diagnosis the department makes on the rise of the lights, and what the generality is doing to guarantee the rights of the citizenry before the abuses of the energetic oligopolis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.35.0	To answer the word, Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.36.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, thank you for the question. Last September was closed with a medium electricity price of 156 euros megawatt/hour. That supposes the triple that September of the past year, and what we carry from October these figures are staying back because we are beating, as you said, historical memories day after day. The last few months, the price of electricity has suffered an excessive escalation, and the measures of the Spanish government, which have arrived late, very late, have proved to be completely useless, because they do not attack the cause of the funds, the plot of the problem, which is the Spanish energy model and the tariff system. The liberalisation that at the time was made under an alleged freedom of competition, defending an alleged freedom of competition, led us to believe that we are now patenting a situation of oligopolies. Three large groups, as you said, control the eighty-five percent of the market and generate benefits of over 5,000 million euros. The oligopolis, the liberalisation, has not benefited anyone, perhaps beyond the manufacturers of rotating doors. I gave you twelve, so twelve; one more this week. It has benefited very few and has harmed many, the vast majority, families who see the price of the light bill increase exponentially, but also the country's corporate fabric, especially the peppers, which have to pass on this cost of electricity to their activity, and this remains their competitiveness. This generates a situation that starts with a price escalation that feeds an inflation that is already at four_per_cent per year. But we are not yet a state, and therefore, we cannot intervene regulating the market. In any case, what we can seek is to resolve the inefficiencies of this market through, above all, consumer relations. And that's what we do and that's what we've done. You mentioned some of the measures, some of which I participated as a Member, and some of which at the time encouraged the Government of the Generality. Now, from Consumers, we are precisely pretentious, willing to defend the phone rights of those most vulnerable consumers, controlling operators in Catalonia. In any case, we need... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Business and Work Councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.37.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Greetings.]] He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on sustainable agricultural production. [[Ask the Government about sustainable agricultural production]] [[310-00091/13]] Ask the question Mrs Alba Camps, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Counselor Jordà, winner of the Berguedà, a region that is making a huge effort through farmers and branches, a huge effort to give value to the primary sector and the food products that were coming. Every day we can find new ecologic productions, people and small businesses with a firm conviction that they need to take care of the environment and surrounding them. The richness of the region also depends on its work, and its essential work makes the ever needed "the earth, for which it works. And it's that these producers don't just work the land, work it and take care of it. People willing to close the circle: proximity production, revaluation of their work and product, quality and accessible to everyone. And all that protecting the environment and protecting the environment. As consumers, we must be convinced that when we buy, we do not only value the product itself, but also the work associated with it in the area where it was grown and the way it grew up. Speaking of Berguedà and following the example, when I buy a long-term drink I don't only know the gastronomic value it has, I also know that I'm buying a future in my region, which I'm betting on a brave and daring producer to grow this essential model change. And if we do it every day from his land, we'll make the change run away from the country, and the land really is where he works and also where he takes care of it. Saying it is easy, not doing so much. This model I'm planting must be accessible to everyone, but obviously it won't be. And this is a reptile of a country, to make this agriculture associated with this esteem for the environment and the look in the future accessible to farmers and also, and very especially, to consumers. It's about social justice, it's about decent work, it's about right to salvation. From production to consumption, the food system must complement the three dimensions of sustainability: economic, social and environmental. This is not only the fruit of a will, but also a need. So, counsel, what is the department doing to encourage farmers to opt for this model? What is the department doing to promote viable, socially just, environmentally sustainable agriculture and what do you think about the future of all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.39.0	To answer the word Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.40.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Member of the Commission, it seems to me that I have said this on various occasions, but we will repeat it. I also seem to have said so in your parliamentary office. Catalonia, our country, has many challenges in climate, environmental, agri-food and territorial cohesion. And all of them, all of them, we have to take them away. All of them, absolutely all of them. You can't leave it in the back. We will not advance the path of the green revolution if we do not count on these two sectors, on the environmental sector and on the agro-environmental sector. Cooperating. In any case, obviously, competitive. To get these reps, which are not few, which we also need, and it goes to say, are new ways, new formulas, also in the production system, also for which it refers to production. This is why, after working very hard, especially in the past legislature, we give the sort of way to sustainable agricultural production, from the traditional model, from the conventional model to the sustainable model. In these three areas that you pointed out: the economics, basically because the payment and the rowing must be able to earn a good living with fair prices; also environmentally and socially. Food production must be absolutely – absolutely – compatible with the contribution to mitigating climate change. It has to do with three basic ways: the first, preserving and improving natural resources, which are obviously finite; the second, protecting and preserving soil, water and air, and, lastly, one of very obvious, which is reversing the loss of biodiversity. And for this government, let me say that sustainable agricultural production is obviously a strategic project aligned with the SDGs, aligned with the European Green Pact, aligned also with the farm to fork sense doubt. All of these projects are clearly ambitious in terms of environment and conservation of resources. I take advantage that I still have forty seconds to tell you that in this bill of law we want to put in value, as it cannot otherwise be, in those farmers, as you very well said, who already carry a lot of time doing their job well done in the case of their farms, making compatible the production of food, obviously, and the conservation of resources preserving the environment. I'm done. I just said that sustainable agricultural production is and will be a basic axis – a basic axis – from now on. Basic in the production of food in the next few years, meaning no doubt. And that is precisely why, in order to keep this sector aligned on these three themes, this legislature will bring the law of agricultural production to this Parliament. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.41.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in the plenary on the measures envisaged to revive the night oci sector. [[He asked the Government what measures were planned to revive the night oci sector.]] [[310-00093/13]] Asks the question of Mr Juan Luis Ruiz, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units per Avançar
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.42.0	Thank you very much, President. I think you are all aware of the current situation in the night octurnal sector, which is why we would like to know what the government's understanding of the measures envisaged to reactivate the night octurnal sector is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.43.0	To answer the word, Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.44.0	Thank you, President. Member, as you know, and I hope that the rest of you will say, precisely, that the re-opening of the ocean sector will come into effect thanks to the vaccination campaign, but also to the effect of restraint caused by health restrictive measures. Tomorrow they will be able to open the night oci sector and this is the most important news at this time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.45.0	To answer the question, has the word Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.46.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I believe that these heights are all coincidental that the night sector has been the most punished for the pandemic in a different way, but Catalonia is where it has been treated in a different way as well. Contradictory messages, lack of information to the sector, that were aware of decisions for the press, that if you decide Greeting, that if it is Company, that if it is Interior... And so we go, with the whole sector still closed. Until yesterday it was not communicated that yes, that they could open from divenders, in any case, tomorrow evening, from twelve of the night, with limitations, yes, and to the hope also of the decision of the TSJ, that the second seems to produce this same saying. It's like, hours before the possible opening. Man, I'm sure a little more foresight has been appreciated. Not to mention the help already, totally insufficient. The government has committed to the sector that if it closes them, it will help them enough, and that has not been the case. Help you, Counselor, can't hold onto the future as you're doing in these calls. The sector can't wait. I remind you that Catalonia will receive EUR 3,154 million from the Government of Spain, EUR 993 million from companies and EUR 2,161 million from covid funds. Therefore, it cannot be said that there is no money as they have done to try to justify the rise of the tourist tax on past dives. 3.154_million euros. You mean they couldn't find the EUR 52_million the sector claims after the shutdown period? You've been helping them so far... they haven't covered as much as the fixed expenses they have to pay, not to mention irreparable damages such as the loss of the value of the brand, investments they won't recover, loss of the human capital... Therefore, the sector you need is to be able to work as you are already doing in most of the state. Let's hope, then, that this sale, yes, they can do it definitively. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.47.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.48.0	Congressman, you know that the Government of the Generality during this year and a half of the pandemic is the Administration that the most presumptive effort has been made to help direct businesses and workers most affected by the pandemic situation. The territory that has invested the most in this sense, with much distance from the second. And we did it with help to businesses and local authorities – as we said before, EUR 993 million – but specifically also with help to the sector. We bring four calls for help to the sector of the night oci, the last of which, of 10_million euros, was announced at the end of July and at the end of August were already paid the 744 requests of autonomes and entrepreneurs of the night oci, with help that go from eight_ thousand to fifty_ thousand euros depending on the surface and the number of workers. Isn't that enough? Of course we'd like to do more. Of course, we want to be able to make an even greater effort to help all those who have suffered the most during the cove, because the purpose of this government is not to let anyone back in the recovery process. The Generality, the Government of the Generality, is the one that has made the most effort in this sense, the one that has spent the most to help the affected sectors. I insist: with general character to businesses and autonomes, but also with specific character to this sector that will now be able to open. And that's the best news. In any case, I'll finish with a question, Congressman. Who's helping the Spanish government in this sense? Who's helping in the night octopus? [[Widow's remorse.]] The Generalitat de Catalunya is the one that has made the over-effort, taking into account the structural financial situation of the Generalitat, it is the more effort it has made. I ask you again, which specific help has made the government of the PSOE, the government of the State. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.49.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in plenary on the Generality's assumptions for 2022. [[Ask the Government about the assumptions of the Generality for 2022]] [[310-00094/13]] The question is posed by Mrs. Alicia Romero, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.50.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Perhaps I would explain to Councillor Torrent that they came from the Government of Spain EUR 993 million to help entrepreneurs and that they have arrived this year EUR 2,162 million of extraordinary funds covid that you can use for what you convince. [[Some applause.]] What my deputy says is that they can use a part of these for the night, which is so blank. In any case, Counsellor Giró, you know that we have a lot of problems in Catalonia: poor children, school segregation, deindustrialization, depopulation; and reptes, ecological transition, digitization of our economy. And to face these challenges and these problems we need some assumptions by 2022. I've said it many times, some by 2021. So the President of the Generality was compromised in his campaign to bring them together with the investiture. That wasn't it. And, therefore, we have some pre-pandemic extended assumptions today, because they presented the 29th generation of 2020. Therefore, designed before the pandemic and it seems to us that it is essential to have some by 2022. Counselor, the public finance law says the assumptions are to be presented before October 10. I can imagine we're not going because today's 6th and we don't know them. But in any case, we would like to know when, counselor, you will bring to this chamber the assumptions of the Generality and when we can start working for parliamentary groups in the most important law approved in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.51.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.52.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Miri, as this government has been promised, we will approve the presuppositions in the Executive Board early in November and will continue to bring them here to Parliament and enter into force at the beginning of the 22nd year.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.53.0	To answer the question, has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.54.0	Counselor, we on other occasions... Miri, when President Aragonès was Councillor of Economy, presented to us the presuppostari mark, let us gather in a transparent way in which a little as was the presuppostari mark, which were the priorities of the Government. And this served us because, once we got to the chamber, we could talk, talk, and you could look for the alliances that you consider appropriate, because Juntes and Esquerra don't have the majority of parliament – sometimes they don't even have it between you – but in any case, they have to look for alliances. What we would not want is for the closeness of their alliances to be difficult and to delay the arrival of the premise to the Parliament of Catalonia. If you have it, wear it and we'll see which majorities are generated, but it's imperative that the 1st generation, as you say, these assumptions are in place. This hasn't happened in years. And, therefore, I'm sure that you, in fact, would like to be the first Economic Advisor, after Councillor Castells, who gets this. I ask you to take them to Parliament as best you can. And in any case, that previously this can already be found with the groups to talk to and go forward on such an important issue with the reptes and problems that Catalonia has. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.55.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.56.0	Thank you, President. Look, I really appreciate that you're always worried about the government's salvation, huh? I really appreciate it. But I will tell you one thing: this government so broken, so divided we have not announced as great news, as PSOE and Podemos have done, that they have just reached an agreement to present assumptions. It's really surprising, because the most annoying thing about it is that a coalition government agrees with the assumptions. This government so broken and divided between Esquerra and Juntas we agree from the first day to the assumptions, from the first day. And I remind him that you are still left with twenty-one members, one deputy and one deputy, to be able to approve the assumptions. I, therefore, also... yes, to Madrid. No, I didn't... So, listen, she's not so worried about the salvation of our alliance, that I can assure her that she's very solid. And, listen, since you're talking so much about President Aragonès and that Mr. Salvador Illa in the general policy debate spoke about me, let me now also speak or answer Mr. Illa. According to the session diary, Mr. Illa said something about those who are used to try to attack a person reputedly. He said, "Mr. Giró, don't be sore, but you see from now on, and it doesn't happen. Literal. Miri, Mr. Illa, I'm coming... would you like me to tell you where I'm coming from? I came from a humble family in Badalona, from a six-meter-square-foot logger pee, my room didn't have a window, I was studying at the grocer and I was moving forward. And I've been thirty-two years in private business where I've gone up without anyone giving me anything, you know? Just a little bit and no one in gifts. And what I can tell you is that I'm not very proud. I don't mind, no, I'm not very proud of who I am. And where I come from is not better than where those who have spent their entire life in politics come from. It's not better, but it's not worse either. It's not worse either. And what I can guarantee is that I won't finish chairing or advising a company... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.57.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Ask the Government about mobility to Catalonia]] [[310-00095/13]] Ask the Government to answer orally in the plenary on mobility to Catalonia. The question is posed by the deputy Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.58.0	Thank you, President. Few days before the rise of the tolls of the AP-7, the C-33 and the C-32 North, political leaders of their government said: "There will be a reconfiguration of mobility, but there are no significant transit problems. We carry more than one month after the release of the tolls and this has led to a remarkable increase in circulation in all the high-capacity lives of the metropolitan region, between a twenty-seven percent and a fifty percent depending on the trams. Every day at peak hours we see congestion to the Nus de la Trinitat and del Llobregat. I'm not talking about a hundred-twenty miles of restraints and congestion before yesterday, am I? Public transportation is around 70 percent of pre-pandemic occupation and we have not seen proactive actions by the government. What's your opinion on tea, counselor, of all kinds?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.59.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.60.0	Yes; thank you, President, and good morning, Member. What do you think? I could ask you and your group the same question, huh? because, listen, the tolls that have been removed are also from you; we have a wave of rollers that are causing us an impressive col·lapse and, therefore, not guaranteeing the right to mobility to many citizens of this country. Anyway, sometimes I think every time you talk, the price of the pa goes up. Anyway, in terms of mobility, I mean, huh? Look, this government that will defend..., and the motto of this department is that of "a connected country and, therefore, that guarantees this right to mobility. And this means, therefore, a country with a territory connected with infrastructure of progress, that balances the territory, that helps to correct urban inequalities and that, obviously, guarantees this right to mobility to all citizens. And we're always talking about mobility. Jo, when I'm talking about mobility, I'm talking about five times the five times, huh? Therefore, a mobility and bet for a mobility that is collective, that is shared, that is interconnected, therefore, intermodal – this will obviously facilitate this whole proposal – that it is decarbonized and also that it is managed from Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.61.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.62.0	Thank you, President. Before I listened to her in a reply that she gave to another honourable Member, and I want to remind her of one thing: the Statute of Catalonia says that the Generality is competent of the transport services that are moving inside Catalonia, independently of the infrastructure owner. Therefore, the Generality, Mr. Vice-President, has the skills that until then the State had in the rolling stock and regional services to set tariffs, timetables, to sign the programme contract. [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you know what's going on, Counselor? That he serves him delimits the Generality. It is you who decide whether to set up another train or take a smaller train. Another thing is the infrastructure, which I remind you that in centralized countries or federally established countries like Germany are always state property. Counselor, you know perfectly well that what the ministry can do as an administration in the streets of Madrid, Seville or València is the same as the Generalitat can do here. By the way, when there's a train trip to Catalonia, do you know who decides them? You. And I would have to answer one question: when you fix the minimum service, why do the Railways of the Government of Catalonia have to fix a minimum service that is practically the total service and when the trip goes to Renfe you dictate a lower minimum service? Committed to public transport and to the right to mobility by our group, everything. Compromise that it translates into facts, as will be seen in the actual days in the general assumptions of the State, with increased inversion. Because we agree that the reversal must be increased. Commitment to transfer the resources needed to manage and improve the rolling stock, you know that you need to gather the bilateral commissions and there will find the Government of Spain. And I'm telling you, counselor, we appreciate the Government of Spain's willingness to come to terms. And you? Or they prefer victimism to solutions. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.63.0	He asked the Government to reply in full on the measures envisaged to ensure security. Ask the question... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, I was controlling Mr. Jordi Terrades' time, which I've given him a space of more because I haven't put up with before, and I haven't given him the word to answer the vice president. Go ahead, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.64.0	Thank you, President. I'll take advantage of this last minute of falling. Anyway, well, we know what his model is, Mr. Terrades. Wait till you can work together. I will, in fact, lend myself to working together to improve the mobility of this country. But the last decisions you've made don't invite us to mass optimism, do they? He didn't reverse it at the airport. It seems to be, by statements I'm feeling, that they're not much in favour of rolling; if not, you can see their votes at last week's PRs. Listen, let's not talk about the winery, which carries years without talking about how you'll finance the model of highways all over the state. And now, for the most part, so, we find ourselves with this space that you're not managing, as we could also talk about the need we need to rescue some sites in Catalonia, as you do. Not now, but previous governments, governments of the State have made tolls of the Madrid radials. Therefore, to collaborate with us, they will find it. The problem of mobility is obviously a repte. You think Barcelona lost thirty thousand inhabitants in the past year. It is people who have gone to live on the outskirts and have to come to work in Barcelona. And, therefore, this is a fundamental challenge of better mobility in public transport to Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.65.0	Right now. [[Asks the Government about measures to ensure security]] [[310-00086/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the measures envisaged to ensure security. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.66.0	Mr Councillor, what measures do you intend to take to ensure security in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.67.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.68.0	So, on the way in, we make social policies, which are the most necessary to guarantee a country's security. Secondly, guarantee the rights and freedoms of all citizens. And, therefore, and as a consequence, from the Interior Council to invest in midjans for the police officers of Catalonia, to donate and increase the staff and to give support to the local polices in what they need.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.69.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.70.0	Look, Mr. Counselor, Catalonia is in chaos and out of control because of citizen insecurity. Alone girls do not dare to come home for fear of being raped; older people are afraid to go out of their house to buy or to walk around the park for fear of being docked; frightened youth stops going to the big parties, for example, this weekend in Sarrià, for fear of suffering a robbery or suffering some injury. Ships, rapes, robberies, wrecks and riots. As my colleague Antonio said yesterday, according to data from the Ministry of the Interior, in Catalonia there is one murder every week, ten rapes a week, fifty robberies violently a day and forty robberies violently at home. And in every protest you protest, a multitude of damage to public furniture, destruction and theft of private businesses, economic losses and many job losses and a great deal of fear on the part of citizens, who do not dare to go out quietly on their streets, on their neighborhoods. And you are guilty for your justification of disobedience to the courts, contempt of authority and contempt for the police. Yeah, contempt for the police. For example, when they were jealous of the wreckage and riots by the criminal Pablo Hasel or when they were jealous of the wreckage and riots by the just judgment of the U of October, or by its so-called effect of illegal immigration, especially to minors who come alone, who you mislead and who then end up causing many of the crimes that are being caused on the street. Also because of the economic crises that you have generated because of separatism and because of the poor management of the pandemic, because of your educational model of disrespect for authority and, of course, because of the contempt for the police I have commented to you before. Look, Mr. Elena, you've commented on some measures, yes. He proposed to change their uniform. I'll make you another one: change your advisors, change your government and start respecting them, please. And leave room for order, coexistence and legality that VOX represents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.71.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.72.0	I'm aware that this will cost you to hear, because I don't respond to your political tradition, but it's that to change the counselor, you don't decide, the citizens voting... [[applause]] And so far they've decided that there's this majority parliament. That's important to keep it in front of you. And there must be many leanings – many, many – to come here to defend the Mossos d'Esquadra a group that has demanded its dissolution, a group that has brought to the courts not for the U of October, which is the source of all evils, also for the 17th of August. And now you're coming here to say that you're the great defenders of the squadron moss? There's got to be a lot of leanings. Miri, what you have to do with Squad moss is give them support with mediums, with materials and with devices to be able to work, to be able to act. And intelligence and work and dedication and being at your side. And do you know what that involved, for example? That in these situations which were produced in the Mercè and which were produced at the feasts of Sarrià there have been ninety arrests. Yes, for the work of Mossos d'Esquadra. And, by the way, let's put it there, the majority of them from Spanish nationality, Catalan residence and male sex. And I assure you that I do not think of stigmatizing Catalans who are male as delinquents, as dangerous people and as people to stigmatize. Everything that's different from what they're thinking, they stigmatize it, they signal it. And they signal it because people have a perception of what they are... of hate, discrimination and persecution. We have a different view of security and it's very different from yours: security is protecting most Catalans, their rights and freedoms, and, particularly, yes, VOX lords, particularly the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.73.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on redistributive policies. [[Ask the Government about redistributive policies]] [[310-00092/13]] The question is posed by Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.74.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, in the introduction of the government plan, among other things, expressed that they wanted a more egalitarian and equitable society before a 26.3_per_cent population at risk of poverty or social exclusion. That is why, among others, we ask who are the government's priorities to ensure the progress and fairness of the Catalan tax system, who are the government's priorities to ensure that who has the most money.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.75.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.76.0	Thank you, President. Madam Remnant, as you know, the normative capacity of the Generality, unfortunately, is short, it is narrow, but with what we can do, you can see what we do; with the little thing we do, you can see what we do. And at this point, the seventy-five percent of everything that we have been able to do with our own fiscal regulation is taxes that are designed to improve the behaviour of citizens on environmental issues and to improve the progress of the Catalan tax system in everything we can.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.77.0	To answer the question, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.78.0	Counselor, there are still climate change laws that have not been deployed. But beyond that, both the OECD and the IMF – not the CUP – say that it is necessary to increase the tax on wealth, that is to say, who has more, more paid, contradicts the insinuations made by the President of Labour Development. These bodies, the OECD and the International Monetary Fund, expressed that this, apart from increasing recaptancy, would increase the progressive nature of the tax system. In fact, property taxes can be an empowering tool for equal opportunities and redistribution of wealth. If you look at the actual tax burden of the higher IRPF tax base and asset tax, you can see that progressivity is disappearing. This explains, in fact, the little redistribution power of these taxes as they are now configured. That's why we're making some proposals: change the property tax, lower the minimum exemption, but above all increase the tax on the upper trams. Posin, for example, or create figures for who has more than 10_million euros and increasing the progress of this tax. It can limit the accumulation by dispossession that it produces and that it is one of the elements that deepens in inequalities. Modify the IRPF. According to data from the Tax Agency, only five per cent of taxpayers declare income in excess of sixty thousand euros per year, while the annual gross salary is no higher than twenty-i-sis_ thousand. Even in the higher sections, the actual load decreased. As long as we do not succeed and reach an agreement for a maximum income, as it did in the United States of the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s, it is important to improve the progress of the IRPF and thus ensure that the contribution effort is for those who enter the most, who normally take advantage of the fiscal benefits and the State's zero fiscal policy on capital. Counselor, now is the time of fiscal policy for most of the population... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.79.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.80.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Regant, as you know very well, there are two ways to seek redistribution, redistribution policies: one with taxes and the other with public expenditure. With taxes, obviously here, in the Spanish State, where we like or don't like our tax system is still in the Spanish state, progress is very low, it's very low and, as you say, this is emphasized by international bodies such as the OECD and the European Union every two by three. The Fedea itself is a laboratory that everyone admits as objective, saying that Spain is only better a two_per_cent, a two_per_cent inequality with all the tax issue. So we need to get better where we're progressive. Where's progress? Two ways: to the IRPF, assets, estates and donations. Listen, in assets, estates and donations, for the fiscal deficit that spills over the country, in the last few years we have gone up and are on some limits that we are already very close to the limit, as you and I have been able to speak personally. We have the margin – we have the margin – and we can work together with the IRPF, especially with the lowest trams. The seventy-two_per_cent– seventy-two_per_cent– of the returns to Catalonia are thirty-thousand euros or less, and the ninety-four_per_cent, sixty-thousand euros or less. Let's work here, help the people who need it the most, which is, I think, the priority we can share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.81.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the contribution that the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert would make towards the municipalities of the country. [[Ask the Government about the contribution that the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert will make towards the municipalities of the country]] [[310-00096/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mercè Esteve, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.82.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. From the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group we wanted to ask Councilwoman Alsina about the most important aspects of municipalism in the matter of open government. From the local world, I know for my own experience as mayor, we work intensively to provide and give the best response and serve citizens and to find the balance between the need for management and all the regulations that local administrations are under at the time of being able to meet the needs of our lives and lives. We know that the import of the territory and the potential of the municipal world as an inseparable part of the model of country that we defend are on the agenda of the council for which I am responsible. Among these, it is worth highlighting the internationalization axes of the municipalities. In good example are the projects germanaments, the business or firal activity, the sporting events, the culture, the tourist attractions, the university and technological centers, the cooperation in local development or the migratory factor. From Junts per Catalunya, we want to highlight some examples to be highlighted in the matter of internationalization, driven from 2017 onwards from the consultancy of which I am now the owner. For example, participation in the Eurotowns Xarxa, the co-development programme with Senegal of the Vic Juntament or the plan of ambassadors of the Sant Cugat Juntament. Even so, the municipalities still have a series of needs to satisfy to give the momentum of internationalization that our territory requires and to be able to add to the good governance strategy. We refer to the lack of resources, the need to promote international forums, the lack of data territorialization or the support to implement transparency policies. That is why, Counselor, we want to ask him: what contribution will the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert make towards the municipalities of the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.83.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.84.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Mayor, the Department of Foreign Affairs is serving not only this government, but everyone else. This includes the municipalities, including civil society and, in this sense, one of the first tasks that we have carried out to complement the activity that the department had done so far is a portfolio of services destined for the municipalities, both in the international and in the open government spheres, they understand that the municipalities of Catalonia have a vocation to internationalize, also to participate in the global reptes of the world and that, in this sense, they must have more and better. Some examples of this portfolio of services, without being exhaustive, are, for example, more than giving support to germanials, enhancing the organization of global events that take place in Catalonia; we open a call to co-finance more than giving technical and logistical support to activities that organize municipalities with international impact; accompanying municipalities to identify, therefore, opportunities and potentialities in the field of supra-municipal organisations; importing practical vouchers that have made other municipalities in the world that may be relevant to us; helping, seeking and obtaining European funds, and, finally, training programmes in areas, therefore, that remain of interest. In the area of open government, which is the other part of the department, we would focus on two themes. We say: « Catalonia, a country of data and, in this sense, a good part of these initiatives will precisely make reference to helping the municipalities, which can improve the quality of data and a very important thing, that we do not forget, that it is the territorialization of these data, because there are data that we do not have and we have to have territorializations. Another area will be that of participatory processes, they understand that people don't just give the opinion, but they can bring ideas. Therefore, to take advantage of this collective intelligence that we have throughout the municipal world. In fact, this execution, this Parliament, are references in examples of municipalism, and, to the Department of Foreign Affairs, you will always keep us at your side, therefore, to help in this task of internationalization. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.85.0	Let's start the questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about vaccination of members of the forces and the security bodies of the State and the cows that have expired]] [[317-00056/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. The question is posed by Mr Alejandro Fernández, of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.86.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Aragonès, do you think it's ethical to say that vaccination of the Police, the Civil Guard and the Marine Rescue agents prevented vaccination of those over seventy years of age, and that then seventy-thousand vaccines fell for not using them? Will you apologize to the security forces and bodies of the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.87.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.88.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Member, six months have passed between one and the other topics; six months when at first there was very little availability of cattle and priority, according to what had been agreed at the level of the Interterritorial Council. And, at the end of the six months, we find ourselves with an offer of cows that, unfortunately, has not been taken advantage of by all the citizens who can do so. Therefore, at a time when the changes are very fast, and more in time of pandemic, six months clearly explains this apparent contradiction that you are trying to generate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.89.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.90.0	Thank you, President. Look, today, Mr Aragonès, I wanted to talk to you about hatred, about the hatred that you transmit too often. Members of her Government, in this case Mrs Vergés and Mr Argimon, pointed out that, because of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which required them to vaccinate police and civilian guards, thousands of Catalans aged 70 and over would remain unvaccinated. The argument cannot be more petty: that the wicked policemen left peaceful elderly unprotected, that the perfidious courts would be responsible for what could happen to them. And then they go and they run out of seventy thousand vaccines for not using them in time. It is impossible to imagine a more nauseous argument, and all with one goal: to generate hatred using the most disgusting propaganda techniques. The problem, Mr Aragonès, is that there are people who believe them, people of good faith even – I don't understand it, but it is. And when you release a barbarity of that nature, you point with your finger at people, people who have families, like you and like me, and who deserve the same respect as you and me. Politicians, Mr Aragonès, have a very important responsibility, and it is, regardless of our political ideas, never to generate hatred. And if we ever make a mistake, and if we ever leave our hand – which can happen to anyone – correct and ask for forgiveness. You have lost today an excellent opportunity, of gold, to ask for forgiveness from the forces and security forces of the State. Morally, nothing distinguishes you from Mr. Quim Torra. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.92.0	Oh, my God. I see that you have returned from the place of Braus de València imbued with the hope of solidarity, of understanding, of will of social cohesion and of respect for the difference that was created there. He tried to bring it into this Parliament, but I think the little representation that the Catalans and Catalans have stuck to it will make this attempt to bring the experience of the PP's national conviction here look like a drop of water from the sea. Miri, you know perfectly well. And you know perfectly well..., and now you're trying – so I guess in the absence of real themes that concern the citizenry, where you can take up your time – to look at the newsroom and see what you can do now to try to wear down the government. They know perfectly well, because here we explained to each other... – the Secretary of Public Health, the current Councillor Argimon, did so at the time, therefore, the Councillor Vergés –, clearly explaining the steps that had been taken in which it was the interlocution with the directions of the bodies and security forces of the State to proceed with their vaccination, the problems that were encountered and how they were adapted in the calendar. Obviously, if you think that one-month-of-March unfrozen cows can serve the month of September, I think you clearly don't understand how this vaccination works, and look like we all haven't been informed, because the communication media, clearly, have published many respectful news. And one last consideration, Mr. Deputy. If you really care – really worry – about security and security conditions in Catalonia, what your parliamentary group should do is stop attacking the current and previous interior department domes, which have always cost the Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.93.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the assessment of the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the liability of the institutions before the banner on Terra Lliure that appeared in Sarrià de Ter (Gironès)]] [[317-00052/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.94.0	Mr Aragonès, as President of the Generalitat de Catalunya, does it seem acceptable to you that in the municipality of Sarrià de Ter a banner is displayed in favor of Terra Lliure in front of the city hall and nobody does anything to withdraw the?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.95.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.96.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman, look, I don't know these facts that you're talking about. And it will allow me, coming from you, and accustomed, therefore, to the manipulations that you make of the facts, before I want to know and prove from first hand what happens if I don't go in and comment on something that you explain here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.97.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.98.0	Well, look, Mr. Aragonès, the banner was this. [[The orator shows a photograph to the chamber.]] I was looking in front of the City Hall of Sarrià de Ter. So he denounced himself on social networks and so he continued hours after our councilman's denunciation in Sarrià de Ter. I hope your Government, instead of showing that it is not aware of anything, condemns every violence and every show of hatred; I hope that your Government will dissociate itself from the photos with Otegi, from the murderers of Bultó, from the destruction and riots on the streets, from the signature of the lord who beat a mosso d'ésquadra as a Tertulian in Catalunya Ràdio; I hope that you will dissociate yourselves from the violent rapper who celebrates the murders or desires them; I hope that you, from the Government of the Generalitat, from the Parliament and from the municipalities, will not support people prosecuted for terrorist crimes. How do you think the people of peace in Sarrià de Ter feel? And you also know, Mr. Roger Torrent, as ex-mayor, and with his successor, the mayor now of Esquerra Republicana, that that banner was in front of the municipality. And he pulled it out, this banner, our councilman. How do people feel about peace when they see something like this and see that their institutions do not react, that the Mayor of Republican Left does not react? I thank our councilman Enrique Porcar for his act of courage and dignity. He probably did what a lot of peacemakers would have done, but he didn't dare do it. That's why I want to thank you for pulling her out. And I have asked you, Mr Aragonès, whether it seems acceptable to you the passiveness of institutions in the face of hatred and violence when it comes from the separatist side. And I'm concerned, honestly, I'm telling you, that you don't feel concerned about these kinds of facts, of banners, of encumbrances of violence. I think that worries many Catalans. The previous question was also about hate and you have sighed theatrically. Look at yourself sometimes in the mirror, that the image you give back may not like it. Correct your attitude and be responsible, that you are the authority... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.100.0	Thank you, President. Mr Carrizosa, it is not the Pleth of the Assembly of Sarrià de Ter, we are the Pleth of the Parliament of Catalonia. And you're taking a... well, this banner, which you didn't teach, did you? Look, it's that, if you really care about the generation of hate, look back, don't look at Sarria de Ter. Look at the backseats, with whom you all day do political maneuvers. [[Greetings.]] Miri on you have to look – look on you have to look. If you are concerned about violence, look at the violent episodes and how we can work to reduce their effects, as the Department of Interior is doing, and you don't have to look for an anecdote that can solve the open turn of questions from the Ple de la Junta de Sarria de Ter. Obviously, therefore, I assume that the representation you have here and at the Sarria de Ter Assembly is the show of how your speech is accepted by Catalan society. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.101.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the treatment of inequality and child poverty in the draft assumptions of the Generalitat]] [[317-00051/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach, d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.102.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, this week we have experienced an international scandal with the publication of Pandora's papers, which has affected the personalities of Spain, Catalonia, from the King's emerit to Pep Guardiola. I think it's a new example of how the richest are trying to emancipate from the country. They think they're not just on the sidelines of society, they're on the sidelines of the law, and while Catalonia is a country that is truly torn by inequality. On one side, we have one of the three children at risk of poverty, and on the other side, we see the richest god per cent, so now it's more than a year ago. And so, now that you're working on the very assumptions of the Government of the Generality, we want to know how you take up this issue of inequality, which is one of the main problems our country has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.104.0	Thank you very much, President. Before I went on, and I wanted to ask the previous questions, I don't think they were the right context to be able to convey this message clearly, do they? I want to express, as President of the Generality, the condol for the death of the agent of the Mossos d'Esquadra yesterday, while doing, therefore, training maneuvers, and conveying the condol to the whole body and obviously to his family. For what you are commenting on, in the area of international taxation, it is clear that it is necessary to move forward towards cooperation and advents in order to achieve a shared standard of corporate tax, but that taxes on personal wealth should also be transferred. I think it's the path. The territories can struggle, but obviously, with the current skills... but also with those of a state, even if they are in part limited, obviously much less limited when you have a state, but they are also limited to be able to act. Therefore, as the Economic Adviser explained earlier, so important is the redistribution that can be made from the ticket point of view as well as from the expenditure point of view. And, in this sense, as I announced last week, the draft assumptions will incorporate a step forward important in reducing inequalities, which is to start making access free to zero-three, thus beginning to take the next course, the P2, as we know it popularly, even though it is I2 with the nomenclature of the Department of Education and recognized for professionals. But this is a very important step, because it's starting the fight for the inequalities of the infantry. Before it's ugly reference to poor child. One of the most effective lines of struggle against child poverty is to facilitate access to zero-three education, because it has medium- and long-term effects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.105.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.106.0	Thank you, President. We hope that this time we will return to zero-three for free, but we also believe that in the fight against inequality we must be brave, we must go for all and, moreover, send a message that is very clear, that it is in the conflict that exists between the elites and the citizenry, that the Government of the Generality and that all the Catalan institutions are always at the side of all those that will never appear in a list of tax fraudsters. And as we think that the measures that are also transformative, we propose that Catalonia should be a pioneer in the establishment of a maximum Catalan wage; that, moreover, it should work in social dialogue with the unions, with the employer, that it could start with a pilot plan for public enterprises and that, moreover, it would also serve as a requirement in the public contract. People like Corbyn to the United Kingdom, Bernie Sanders to the United States, sociolegs to Rendueles, economists to Vicenç Navarro, organizations to Intermon Oxfam are already defending this measure, which is common sense and which, moreover, is progressive. We are talking that this maximum wage would be to limit the difference between the one that you charge the most from the company and the one that you charge less from the same company, and that for each euro that you want to push a businessman, so you would have, percentage, also, to push it to any worker of the company. Because transforming can't just be a wish, it's an empire. And I also have to say one last point: before we listened to the councilman, he turned to claim President Mas, to the president of the retail. It seems like this isn't transformative people, but it's very worrying. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.108.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, Bernie Sanders, Jeremy Corbyn, who have been candidates for the highest level of government of the United States or the United Kingdom..., we are the Parliament of Catalonia, we are not yet a power of these characteristics, and I believe that, even when we become an independent state, we will be very far from being like the United Kingdom or the United States. So let's lay down the things we can do. We put the things that we can do on the table, and, in this sense, there is a proposal that we would like to accompany us, which is that of the minimum wage of reference to Catalonia. Help through, precisely, collective bargaining, and you have the opportunity of the Government of the State, to help us territorialize [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] To the line... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.109.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the approval of the sectoral territorial plan for housing]] [[317-00050/13]] The question is posed by Ms. Montserrat Vinyets, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.110.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Mr. President Aragonès, I'll ask you a question about housing, and first I'll justify why I'm doing it to you and not to a councillor. I do it to you because from the government, in the exercise of its organizational power, they have decided to substrate the housing matter of the council of Digital Policies and Territories and to place it at the council of Social Rights. It is his faculty of organization, it is clear, but we also have the right to criticize, to protest, for this organization that we understand that it only makes us hear the question of housing from the logic of care, charity, and what it does to us is to be in an attraction of fire, from these of the horses that have gone back and forth, but that they never just go back and forth. I also ask you the question because we are dealing with the housing law, a whole series of experts have come along and everyone agrees that the problem of housing is a structural problem in the country. You're the highest representation, so I have to ask you the question. And the question is very clear and clear. In 2007, the tripartite passed a right to housing law. It's a law that doesn't fall for the rings to recognize it, a law well done, consistent, advanced to its time. This law is approved in 2007. This law provided for a concrete standard instrument, which was the sectoral territorial housing plan, which said that it should be the guiding framework for all housing policies; that it should give us a lot of information; that it should also establish storm and retraction areas; and that it should also be enforced in the event of a failure to fulfil the social function of ownership, and that there was one very concrete thing, that had to be unfolded this plan in the time of a year. It's been more than two years, and that hasn't happened. They have the sectoral territorial plan only with an initial approval in a plethora of poles. Mr President, I ask you: when does the government intend to approve this plan? When will Parliament account for the approval of this plan? The situation is difficult and this tool, this board, is an indispensable tool.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, allow'start with a discrepancy. I think the Department of Social Rights is not the department or merely the care department, and much less what it isn't, it's a charity department. It is a department that ages for guaranteed citizenship income, that ages and is also centered on a very important part of the country's system of cures, attention to dependence, youth policies, for example. Therefore, the location in this department which is said to be social rights, not social welfare, not social action, "social rights, because it is a question of rights that are of all, so it is the most appropriate to situate housing policies as a right, as a right to which all citizens have to access. With regard to the instruments provided for in the 2007 Housing Law, many have deployed, others, so they are very years late, and our will is to work with all the instruments. And, obviously, the housing market is a changing market, which is about where we have to intervene and where we have to apply the different tools that we have, not just the law of 2007, but many others, and therefore, obviously, all will be updated. I would like to take this opportunity to value some of the actions that we are carrying out in the field of housing. In the first place, the renewal of the protocol on misnomerization of judicial actions, therefore, on denunciations. It is necessary to act at the beginning of the procedure and, therefore, to activate all that they are, therefore, the sphere of those responsible for social rights, social services, the different administrations, to bet on mediation, and to allow the services that we have from the Generality of Catalonia to help and guarantee the right of families who see their habitat at risk. In this sense, as I said last week, and I had announced the Department of Social Rights, it is working for a line of 20_million euros of emergency to avoid the denunciations that can be produced from, and especially, so, from the end of the year, when some of the measures by the State may fall. The objective is to increase the public housing park, and therefore to achieve, thus, to facilitate financing, also in the area of housing cooperatives, and to refocus a significant part of the European foundations intended for habitat rehabilitation, which vagrate especially to the barrels that suffer more inequality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.113.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality why the Government works against the interest of all Catalans and devotes attention to the arrest of President Puigdemont to Alguer]] [[317-00049/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga, of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.114.0	Why do the President of the Generalitat and the rest of his advisers work constantly against the interests of all Catalans? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.116.0	Thank you, President. Your question is wrong, it's from a bad settlement. To make good answers, you have to make good questions. In his case, it's not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.117.0	To ask, you have the word Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.118.0	Mr Aragonès, it has been almost two weeks since the arrest of the coup player Puigdemont in Sardinia. Eleven days on which the only priority of the president of the Generalitat and the rest of his advisers has been to meet the legal needs of a criminal, whose only future is to answer for his crimes before the Spanish justice. A misconception of travel, visits and political statements that show that the only interest this government is in is that of separatist leaders. Because once again, Mr Aragonès: with uncontrolled crime, thousands of Catalans going through the wrong and filling the queues of hunger, hundreds of entrepreneurs unable to open up their business to a hundred, you are more concerned about separatist dream than about protecting the Catalans as a whole. Catalans, Mr Aragonès, who are the ones who finance with their taxes, subjected to an unparalleled fiscal asphyxiation, their journeys, their meals and their holidays. Have the decency, please, to stop speaking on behalf of the workers when for a long time, even before the days of the evil Junqueras, your only purpose, your only political program has been to maintain and strengthen the separatist elite of which you are part. Workers who, by the way, you deny the right to live safe in your neighbourhoods, because the multicultural societies that you promote and that this whole chamber is jealous enthusiastically, have serious consequences for the Catalans on foot. Because behind every robbery, every assault and every rape there are goodist policies that allow it and government advisors looking the other way. Isolated cases are now routine in the major neighborhoods of our region and you do nothing to avoid it. Barcelona is a true portrait of the Catalonian model they promote. 37,553 crimes, twenty-five per cent more in the same period last year, summer. And all of this you want to hide and when I say it in this chamber, go with your tearful accounts to the Bureau of Parliament to impose a fine on me or prevent me from exercising my rights as a Member. But look: a few months ago, his people threw stones at us in Vic, stormed our headquarters, but neither then nor now will they manage to silence us, because we owe ourselves to the interests of the Catalans and not to their goodist impositions. It is important to choose between two models of Catalonia, Mr Aragonès : the failed model of separatism that divides, confronts and impoverishes citizens, that goes the way of turning our streets into authentic zones « no-go zones and that has led to the greatest cut in freedoms of the last decades, or on a model based on the freedom, equality and prosperity of Catalans. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.119.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.120.0	Thank you very much, President. I see that the ridiculous thing that you did at the time of Sasser's trial, in which you went there to present yourself "here we are the VOX's, here we are the extreme right and we want to talk to the Italian justice and that they did not let them through the door, so there they are. They're in there. I can hear you taking them. [[Greetings.]] You accuse us, precisely, of what you do. Or else, you tell us that we are permanently obsessed with the question of Catalonia's independence, and it is you who devote all their efforts to it, who devote all their legal services not to defending workers and workers, no, no: to pursuing political dissent in the Spanish State. So all they accuse us of is the miracle. We already know that the extreme right, far from history, has used victimism as a way of strengthening itself. Especially in times of economic and social crisis, it uses victimism and has used it. I did it in the 20s and 30s and they do it today: they use victimism precisely distorting the principles of freedom, of social justice to generate division, to precisely attack the freedom of the majority of the citizenry. With a ho fan? You attack the freedom of the majority of the citizenry when they associate – when they associate – episodes of violence that have occurred, and against whom it has acted and will continue to act diligently, at a certain origin, at a certain administrative condition. The Inner Councillor explained this earlier on on a regular basis. Of the arrests of this week's end that have occurred, the majority, of Spanish nationality with civil citizenship in Catalonia. Men. So, go ahead, we're a few here. So, trying to stigmatize, trying to signify the difference... when you denounce multiculturalism, you're denouncing the difference as the culprit of the country's problems. So diversity is never a problem. Diversity in this country and abroad is an act that advances societies, makes us more plural and makes us better. Being different and diverse makes us a better country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.121.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on political topicality. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the adoption of a shared position with regard to the negotiation of the general assumptions of the State]] [[317-00055/13]] The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.122.0	Thank you very much, President. In the first place, give the condol to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for the events that took place the last few days. President, members of the government, deputies and deputies, this week we have experienced a new victory in exile, one more. We're carrying a few more than they're coming along the way. I say this for all those who already celebrated the possible extradition of President Puigdemont and I say this for all those who promised, this week's head to Valencia, Mr. Pablo Casado, or already in the electoral campaign, Mr. Pedro Sánchez, bring President Puigdemont to Spain. President Puigdemont, like Toni Comín, Clara Ponsatí and Lluís Puig are not escaped, they are citizens in the frees of Europe. They're not runaways. They have appeared before any European sphere of justice when it is required. And they can go all over Europe. Well, all over Europe less for a state: the Spanish State. And today is a good time to put value on what this Parliament approved last week at the general policy debate: I fully support President Puigdemont. To make it clear that the Spanish State is a state that does not have full democratic guarantees. And president, we have a majority of fifty-two percent for independence. And that's why, especially after the victories that we've had this afternoon, despite the fact that the VOX lords tried to do it and they came out warmed up, it's the time we have to do ourselves good. With all the strength. State assumptions will now begin parliamentary processing. The presuppositions are the pressure lever that we can't disapprove of. For this reason, from Juntes to Catalonia we consider it essential to act in a coordinated manner, as the government accord says, with all strength. You showed your disposition in July of this year's control session. We ask, from Junts, that from the conjunction of independence we begin to work for a shared position on this new opportunity. And in this sense, president, we ask you for your respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.124.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Member, respect the question of the general assumptions of the State, and then have concrete proposals. And, obviously, the government is able to deliver its opinion from the joint departments and encourage the joint political forces to negotiate it. Therefore, we see what concrete proposals, in their case, so I believe we can make in this negotiation and, on the basis of concrete proposals, I believe that it is how we can work to move forward. I would like, however, to highlight a fundamental element – which you have also said in your intervention – and it is the episode of this diluen to Italian justice, in Sardenya, in which once more it has been shown that that political cause, the general cause against independence, beyond the borders of the State, has very little effectiveness, because it is recognized as a political process, as a political persecution of dissent. Emmascarat in a false division of powers– because we all know, therefore, that the judicial dome is captured by the Spanishist right–, it is intended to give a standard of normality on the part of certain powers of the State to which it is a full-fledged persecution, as was the Supreme Court's trial, as are the different proceedings to the High Court of Justice, to the Court of Auditors or to different courts to attempt to attack and criminalize what was represented by the U of October reference. Therefore, I see, therefore, that as much as the Llarena court is heard – as much as the Llarena court is heard, the fact that it is not accepted in any jurisdiction outside the Spanish State – the problem requires a solution. And the problem is a political problem, it's a political conflict and it requires a political solution. Therefore, the struggle that led to the end of exile with President Puigdemont, but also with all the rest of exiles and exiles, which, therefore, carry the defense of Belgium, but also those that bring it to the end of Switzerland, gives us the strength to demand the approval of an amnesty law. Because I have come to ask for an intervention on the judiciary, what we are asking for is that the legislature acts. And legislative power can act. I can't look at another gang. And, therefore, approval of an amnesty law is absolutely necessary. And that's what we're defending in Parliament... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.125.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the proposal for the full transfer of Renfe's roadside service]] [[317-00053/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Josep Maria Jové, of the Republican Group of Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.126.0	Thank you, President. When political persecution pretends to go through justice, justice in some countries comes out. All support, President Puigdemont. President Aragonès, the mobility in Catalonia is on hold. The exponent we've seen these last few days with a wave of rolling machines that has generated obvious chaos in the railway network and that puts a service against the ropes that is already usually deficient and with historical faults. The consequences of the wave are hard, but it is only – only – the tip of an iceberg of a system encased in chronic disinversion and aversion, which refuses to promote efficient public transport. And this is not our model, we defend just the opposite. We are aware that the people's enterprise is great and they have every reason to, because it rains on women. The wheelhouse is and it was a shame before the wave. We've seen it or been seeing it constantly for the past few years, with and without pandemics, with and without waves. The place is a right, it's legitimate. And we would be wrong if we limited the public and political debate only to debate the vagueness or if we reduced it to compliments of minimal service. The manager is Renfe, an operator to whom the Generality can only supervise, because, effectively, the rollover transpo announced years ago, was an incomplete transpo. Incomplete and without compromised investments. When we talk about the transfer of management, we want to say full responsibility for the service to the Generality: tariffs, train operation, information, station status and, also, any labor conflict and with future funding and funding pending. Responsibility and total management of the service. If it's partial, it's not just that we can't get there, it's that others get their hands together. Because leaving some people's jobs is so great that it's embarrassing. And let me tell you, but now that you have the greatest responsibility, it is someone who knows very well the reality of Catalonia and, in particular, the limitations it has for the Generality with this cessation pending. Today, as in the speculative operation of the airport, in front of Renfe there is an old acquaintance of the Socialists. You can't play a shadow government when you've got charges, ministries, money, and a directory of public enterprises. We want to ensure infrastructure for the country, a public and quality 100_per_cent service. And obviously the rights of the workers will also come. And that happens, in our view, for a complete transposition. President, what's the government's proposal for a rollover? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.128.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. What we're living on these days at the Renfe Roller Service is absolutely unacceptable. The Renfe Roller Service is used daily for 400,000 citizens and citizens. And to see how times change, as in a situation, obviously of vagaries – but there is, therefore, no compliment of the minimum services –, it obviously generates, not only inconveniences in the day-to-day, it creates difficulty to access the places of work, to return home, to reconciliation. And, above all, what generates is a mistrust of the public transport system which, in the midst of climate emergence, is a difficult irresponsibility. And what we see is that here, who has political responsibilities, he hasn't been seen anywhere. Are we the Minister of Transport? Where is the Minister of Transport who is running to make a press wheel focusing on the Government of Catalonia for an important mobility infrastructure, certainly, that is the airport of Barcelona, but for the daily mobility infrastructure of 400,000 people in Catalonia, employees and employees, students, great people to go to health centers, silence per answer. Silence for answer. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, I believe that here it is necessary to demand political responsibilities. But we know, as the honourable Member said, that the situation of the past few days adds, above all, to a structural deficit of many years, which must be reversed. And we know that it will only be reversed with a full transfer of the rolling stock and properly financed. As the Vice-President explained earlier, the transposition of 2009 was limited to timetables and tariffs, because there was a discussion about financing, the need to update infrastructure and, obviously, after the corresponding financing there are depreciations and what is current expenditure. Therefore, this is the key where we have to focus the negotiations to get the full rollover to the Generality, guaranteeing the rights of workers and workers– guaranteeing the rights of workers and workers– from Renfe, who must always maintain their rights– salaries, opportunities for geographic mobility and functional mobility. This compromise, obviously, as the Generality has it, and we have underfunding in investments. Only fifteen per cent of the 2008-2015 roundtable was run. So... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.129.0	Thank you. Time's up, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the defence of the authority of public law enforcement officials]] [[317-00054/13]] I finally ask the President of the Generality to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.130.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I must confess that I am still a little corset for the morning panic of the Lord Turned to the Lord Mas. At these hours of the morning, he caught me off guard. Certainly, Mr. Giró, memorize with me: excuse not small, accusation manifest. [[Some applause.]] I'm on my way. Mr. Aragones, the maintenance of public order, security and coexistence is the first obligation of all governments and is a fundamental requirement for exercising freedom. And there is no public order, naturally, without the authority on the part of those who have the command to preserve it; in Catalonia, the cosos dels mossos d'Esquadra – also send my condolences to them – the Barcelona Urban Guard, local police and other bodies and security forces. Mr. Aragones, will you order the processing of all complaints for actions against the authority – did we know that there are 1,200 – of 2020 pending processing? Will the causes for which they have not been dealt, Mr. Aragones, come to light? And will he punish, if he is, of course, responsible for this delay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.132.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Illa, I think we'd do each other a favor if we didn't get the security for the head in this Parliament, and a lot more... we'd still do each other a bigger favor if we didn't get the authority for the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. [[Some applause.]] I think I'm on condition that you don't contribute to it. Next thing. Last week you said by the mouth of your spokesman that this government was legitimizing the rape. I called for a rectification. It's time to be able to do it on the turn of the line, because you know perfectly well, you know perfectly well that this government doesn't legitimize any violence, and much less what we've experienced in the last few days. And, finally, the authority of the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, of the local police of Catalonia, is reinforced with facts. This week I was able to attend the Institute of Public Security at the graduation ceremony of 1,200 officers. There were almost eight hundred squadron moves and a few more than four hundred local cops. And I... at the opportunity I had to address them, I encouraged them to complete their duties as agents in the public service of the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. And to make it more human resources, and that's why we're on nine promotions. Because the good part of the discomfort, which I can hear, of the agents of Mossos d'Esquadra, are the drawings of thousands of foreign hours that they have had to do in the last few months. And this is not a solution looking at the quadrants how it can generate efficiency. This is solved with personal resources, and also, obviously, with the tools with which they work. And we have the whole plan, which is already unfolding, because the material resources also allow them to do the job safely. The authority does not gain in parliamentary statements; the authority is recognised with facts. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.133.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.134.0	Thank you very much. Done is what I ask you, Mr. Aragones. Look, I don't want to be a narrow-eyed, low-floor politician. Neither with this theme – nor with this theme. And I don't intend to get any political feedback from a topic that worries me – and a lot, that worries me. The feeling of my question is not so much, in this session of control, to point out errors, that there is none; it is not so much to point out failures, that there is none; nor is it so oriented to point out infinities, that there is none. It's about giving it a chance just to be clear, because it's not clear. When the defence of the Squadron Mosses is transferred from the Interior to the Presidency, when a study commission is set up to review the public order model, when the perception of the majority of agents and of the citizenry is that there is always a sense of mistrust of the agents of the authority, this is the first to be rectified. I know perfectly well that public policy and security is a complex policy, more in mature societies as it is today. I know perfectly well, but I ask you to clarify and clarify once and for all that the authority of public law enforcement officials is not subject to suspicion, that from the outset they have all the confidence of the government and the institutions. If he's on this path, he'll have me on the side; if he's not, he'll have me on the side. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.136.0	Miri, of course we've always had it. In any case, it is you who have sown the doubt in an absolutely irresponsible way – in an absolutely irresponsible way. [[Some applause.]] The squadron moves will have the same defense, also on the same level, also the heads of the week, with guardian lawyers, who have the rest of the public workers of the Generality. They tend it like the rest of the public workers of the Generality, to improve its service – to improve its service. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And after all – if you let me finish, Mr. Illa – we need to increase the body template. We have a safety board in Catalonia, we expect to hold it in the next few weeks, and we expect to increase the number of total recognizable effects. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.137.0	After the control session, we move on to the next item on the order of the day, the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to report on the management and evolution of the fifth wave of the pandemic of covid-19. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to report on the management and evolution of the fifth wave of the covid-19 pandemic]] [[350-00006/13]] In accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as the Plenary approved the appearance of the President of the Generality to report on this development of the fifth session, the President of the Generality, the very honourable Mr Pere Aragonès Garcia, has the words "the President of the Generality".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.138.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, government advisors and advisors, appear before this chamber again at the same Ple's request to debate the management and evolution of the covid-19 pandemic. A match that was agreed a little more than two months ago, when we found ourselves immersed in an event that today we can already begin to donate by surpassing. I believe, therefore, that it is absolutely opportune at the present time to debate the situation of the pandemic, the epidemiological situation, the response given to it, the management that has been done with respect and also the decisions that we are taking on these days in order to recover to the maximum what is normality in those positive aspects that we have almost at the level of covid-19. But I'd like to make, first of all, a call to prudence. The numbers of the last few days are positive figures, we are around 2,400 cases detected per covid, the positivity index was a little bit below two_per_cent. We are at a time in the year when there are beginning to be other respiratory conditions and, therefore, this also explains that there is an important number of diagnostics, but there is a positivity, therefore, very reduced. It also explains that the prevalence of infections has been greatly reduced by the virus's own dynamics. Also, obviously, for the measures we have decided to take. Therefore, we are at a time of recovery of activity, but I call on the prudence – let's do it again –: the pandemic has not finished and the pandemic has taught us every time that it has the ability to overcome positive expectations. Therefore, a lot of caution, but we also obviously continue to work for the opening and lifting of all restrictions, always according to the health criteria. Let me, therefore, have this present, that we can make a trip to the last weeks of June, in which it began to gestation the quinta onada, and, therefore, remember, what was the context. The epidemiological data of the past June were hopeful, we had fewer than five hundred hospitalizations – today we have, therefore, a few more than three hundred –, one hundred_five people in intensive care units – today, if I am not mistaken, in one hundred_disset –, the risk of recovery was located below one hundred – today we have at sixty-five, sixty-six–, the number of deaths was the lowest since the end of the pandemic, and vaccination, especially during those weeks, was advancing at a very good rate. Therefore, we had all the conditions for re-opening, lifting restrictions, and so we could face a different estuary from what we experienced in the summer of 2020. There is a determining factor that explains what has been, therefore, the reasons behind this five-year period and, therefore, also explains the instruments we have put in from the Government of Catalonia to give it an answer, which is the appearance every time more numerous of a new variant, the delta variant, which had the ability to make much more contagious in a much more severe way. Especially, it was done in a particularly cruel way among the population collections that had not yet been vaccinated, per age. Obviously, if we had the data of the intensity that ultimately was, respect the contagious capacity of the delta variant, we had other decisions. We took the decisions, therefore, that we considered appropriate and also in agreement with the opinions, and I refer to the report to see the opinions of the experts in the different disciplines related to the pandemic, in which it is actually expected that there could be a rebound, but that it would be very light and that it would not have the size it had. Therefore, the pandemic has shown us the fragility of some postulates that we have always given for good, and to Estonians we have also had the feeling in the government, of the actions in the governance of the actions in relation to the pandemic, of moving away from an area of uncertainty. But there are certain that they have manifested themselves in every wave. They certainly work: before an increase in infection, maximum protection – mask, social distance, minimization of social interactions – and, thanks to science, and especially in later months, especially vaccination. Therefore, we must be aware that the virus of covid-19, despite the data we have now, will not disappear. It won't go away because it doesn't go away from the world and a pandemic is, precisely, an epidemic of global character. And, therefore, it will only be won if it is overcome with global character. And we're very far away – very far away – from overcoming it with global character. We are protected as a society, we would like to be much more so, so I repeat the call for vaccination of those people who have not yet been vaccinated, but we must be very aware that we will only be superimposed on the effects of the pandemic if we beat it with global character. But today, despite these warnings and caution, we can say that we can face this late and winter differently from last year, and it's mostly thanks to vaccination. More than 11 million doses have already been injected in the past eight months, and obviously the immune population must be added because it has been infected, which is a vaccine with a little more delay. Therefore, it can be dealt with differently. And I'll give you an example of one of the measures that we'll start putting out this week if it's finally validated by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, as we expect. The European Parliament and the European Commission, together with the representatives of the Member States, approved the European Covid certificate in order to be used for travel movements between the different Member States. And the possibility was offered, in the legislation that was approved, because it was, therefore, also a tool for other types of uses. With great caution and always making a weighting of rights between the right to privacy but also the right to physical integrity and public security, we believe that now, in a temporary and limited way, it is appropriate to use the covid certificate to allow the opening of one of the sectors of activity that since the beginning of the pandemic, with the short exception of the end of June, has been closed, that is the night. Therefore, the use of the covid certificate, which will require judicial authorization, which we want to do temporarily, because this does not have to be continued and permanent over time, the use of the covid certificate must allow us to recover this sector of activity and also recover a part of the socialization that is especially important in certain age collections. So, we'll put out the coded certificate to access the night octopus offer. It must be possible to open up with the maximum number of health guarantees, as is working with this sector, and also with legal guarantees. Therefore, be fully curios with the implantation to avoid an affectation of phonental rights. Obviously, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has to validate this implementation, making this weighting of rights mentioned before. In relation also to the coded certificate, here it is very important and in this we have been working intensively from the government, to ensure that this weighting of rights is reflected, also, in the technology that is used. Therefore, the tool that will be used to validate the covid certificate will not store data; it is a tool that goes to the minimum of identification essential to ensure that this certificate actually corresponds to the person, and it is a tool, the covid certificate, that, in the case that... – hopefully not, and we will put all the tools in there so that it is not so – but in the case that there are new issues that forces us to take steps to reduce social interaction, the use of the covid certificate must allow us not to take massive restrictive measures – massively restrictive measures. And, therefore, it's a tool we have. But in this case, so, as I say, at these limited times for access to the night octurnal. And let's hope we don't have to use it for more than that, because it means that the advent in the pandemic is advancing. At the expense of the use of the certificate, the vaccination campaign is very important. One of the objectives we have is to reduce the gap in certain age sectors – from 20 to nine years in concrete terms, especially in men – with respect to vaccination, from the rest of the age groups. Therefore, it is important to insist on vaccination. We need a higher percentage of vaccination. We have, respecting the total population, a percentage of vaccination greater than seventy per cent; we have respect for the majors of twelve years, we are around eighty, but we also need to go much further, because we have seen that the appearance of nine variants in us places in a position of vulnerability, and what before was considered as the eighth in order to achieve this group immunity – a concept that has passed a little, therefore, to history, because we see that it will be very difficult, while it is a global epidemic, a pandemic – it was around seventy. The recommendation is we have to go to the waterfront. And, therefore, it is important to insist on vaccination. In the young segment especially, also, because it is a time of life in which there is, so..., it is a stage in which social interactions are more diverse, with more people and more intense. And, therefore, it is important that we can, therefore, deepen the vaccination of young people, to protect themselves, but also to protect their entire environment. And I would also like to deal with another issue, which is the pandemic that follows the pandemic of covid-19, which is the pandemic of mental salvation, which affects all age groups, but which also affects young people in particular. It is precisely this collection, and also among the rest of the vulnerable sectors of our society, that there is a possibility of suffering a difficult problem of mental health. And with the government we are fully compromised. Yesterday we had the occasion, with Councillor Argimon, to begin what will be the commemorative acts of the Day of Mental Health, which is the next October 10, this diumenge. And yesterday, precisely, with the federation of entities linked to mental salvation, we had the opportunity to share concerns, but also commitments in this sense. The mental health problems of our people do not originate in the pandemic, but it is certain that the pandemic has been an accelerator. I therefore need a major compromise in this area. This is why it is working to allocate EUR 80 million to strengthen and transform the mental health network, especially for children and young people; to make it cross-cutting, from the school to the field of work, obviously with the health and primary care as main referents. This same week, UNICEF published a report indicating that thirteen percent of young people on the planet are diagnosed with a mental health problem. Therefore, the accelerating impact of the pandemic on the emotional well-being of infants and young people is undeniable. Also of the great people – also of the great people –, who suffer in many cases the loneliness and that this has accelerated, also, with the pandemic of the covid-19 and that we must be able to reverse. Therefore, we will push forward the national pact for mental health, which must enable us to achieve the recovery and community rehabilitation of everyone who may be affected. Before this year is over, the process of drafting this pact will begin. It will count on the participation of family organizations; it will also count on first-person organizations, i.e., people who have a problem of mental salvation; as I said, also their families; entities that act in the service of the field of mental salvation and addictions. But beyond the realm of, obviously, this challenge of mental salvation, of this pandemic after the pandemic, we must act to reinforce primary and community care. In the past, it's been a key. And here we have to recognize that the exponential increase in contagion that occurred during the month of July posed, first of all, what are the services of attention, 061, in a situation of oversaturation, which was then transferred to primary care and, finally, to hospitals. And especially to the primary care, which is very capillary, which is above the territory and which must follow the rest of the pathologies, the follow-up of the chronic diseases, which must, therefore, make this door of entry into the health system, and at the same time is not the backbone..., I think we need to make a recognition of the leadership in the fight against the pandemic that they exercised from the point of view of assistance. For this reason, but above all for many others, because of the need to strengthen primary care, our commitment is to devote the twenty-five percent of the health care requirement – and we will have to work on it, therefore, on these assumptions and on the following – to primary care, with the aim of increasing the current template and stabilising it. Therefore, the pandemic forces us to place health and, therefore, the public health system at the forefront of public policy priorities. And that brings us to another issue that's groundbreaking, that's the right financing. In the plan of government we fix this objective, which is shared by professional organizations, by professional colleges, by experts of different fields related to the public health system, to increase by 5,000_million respect to the higher assumptions that they are..., the presuppositional scope of the policies of salvation. It won't be easy, because this clearly reflects the entries we have from the Government of Catalonia. And obviously, there's a limitation here. There will be an important effort; there is, therefore, obviously, the past year and this; there will be in the next few years, also at the time of seeking resources on the part of who collects most of the taxes to our country and who decides the distribution between the different administrations, which is the State. Why do we need these resources? Obviously, to continue facing the pandemic, but also to recover the attention activity to other diseases that has been delayed; to face the technological obsolescence that we have in different areas. First, it is a recovery..., to begin recovery in the field of working conditions and wages; then we have continued with investments in the field of infrastructure, but we must not forget what technological obsolescence is in a sector where technology continues to advance and where the increase in life expectancy and aging, therefore, of the population means that there is the opportunity of..., and the duty on the part of the administrations, to ensure an active and healthy aging for the population as a whole. We must also allocate these resources, as I said before, to mental health problems, to improve emotional well-being and community health, as well as public workers in the field of salvation. And to consolidate the increase of professionals contracted for the covid-19 and above all to improve the working and remunerative conditions, to allow those who are the professional career plans, and to recover talent that we have to foreign, and to continue to foster vocations in the health field, because this is one of the important cols d'ampolla that we have, which is the provision of professionals in the field of health; it is not immediately possible, you cannot do it in one month, you need many years of training, and therefore you need to maintain constant resources and planning for several years. That's the point. And, therefore, we will have to complain to the Government of the State. A large part of the public resources that the State has in Catalonia do not return, do not revert to this territory. And that's not an apology. I believe that the infra-financing of the competitions in salvation is not just the Pateix Catalunya; the Pateix the conjunction of territories. And, therefore, the proposal that we have of these 5,000_millions – in the case of Catalonia, but this extrapolable to the rest of the State – is not a proposal of resources that is destined to another place to move them to Catalonia, although it is generic or not generic – in this case, many are generated in Catalonia –, from the fiscal point of view; but it is that it is necessary to strengthen the joint health care system, for the pandemic, but also for the trends of foundations at the demographic level, at the level, therefore, of technological and search advances, that lead to an increase in the need for public spending in the field of salvation, in Catalonia, in the State and in the context of Europe, for a simple issue of democracy. Therefore, it will be necessary to reach this great agreement, and it is an agreement that will not only be good for Catalonia, but that must be good for everyone, also for the rest of the territories of the State. We know, however, that we can only manage fully the resources generated by our country when we follow an independent state; we also know that. This obviousness does not prevent us from following much action at the time of defending this increase in resources on the part of the State in order to be able to cope with what must be the presuppositionary increase in the matter of salvation. We understand, too, that from the point of view of salvation... – and after much more detail will enter the Councillor Argimon, who will intervene after me in order to be able, therefore, to give much more details of the evolution of the fifth wave and of the decisions that have taken place – we also understand that we cannot do things as always have been done, that we must do them in a different way and that, therefore, the transformation of the health system, taking very much into account the care of the most vulnerable people and with less resources, taking into account the social determinants of salvation, must also be one of the objectives of this legislature. Therefore, placing people at the centre of all political decisions is to think of the good collection. For weeks now, therefore, it is possible that, if epidemiological data continue to be accompanied, many of the measures that have been taken so far will be made more flexible; measures that we did not like to take, but which we are determined to take when it happened, and, when it happened, we would take them again, the measures, with all the same determination. We have new ways to make it different; we have a very important percentage of the population vaccinated; we have an accumulated experience that each time makes, therefore, that the reptiles that we have are different, but that we face them with much more knowledge. And, therefore, we hope we can keep the tools because this late and this winter, so the evolution of the pandemic does not prevent us from recovering the daily life of life in so many areas where a sacrifice has been made. It's important, we think the country needs it. And this society of ours, tired, tired, but it has all hope in recovery and collective reconstruction, so it has the right to be like this. That said, therefore, and with the permission of the presidency of Parliament, I would now take the words of the Councillor of Salut, Dr Argimon, in order to be able to give details of the actions that we have taken and also of the decisions that have been made, which have been adopted by the Government of Catalonia and the Department of Salut and the rest of the departments. Thank you, Madam President, Councillors, Councillors, Lords and Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.139.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, after his intervention, has the word now the Councillor of Salut, Mr Josep Maria Argimon, who will intervene according to article 85.6 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.140.0	Madam President, Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, I compared, on July 28, to the Health Commission of this Parliament, to inform and give explanations on the situation of the pandemic in which the five-year-old was named. We were then in a high situation of the wave, in the sense of the incidence that was provoked, and above all of the affectation and the incidence that was also supposed on the primary care services, on the primary care centers, to precisely attend to that infection. We had already overcome the peak of infection, it began to overcome, according to age fringes, from July 14th, but, depending on the different age fringes, the older ones ended to overcome the peak at the end of July. But the hospital care pressure – we know this – always up two, three weeks later. And we arrived, therefore, the first week of August, at a difficult time; a difficult time, too, because the plants, the people, the professionals, the workers and the workers are on vacation. And so we got there, so we didn't have to affect the holiday period, which was really deserved and needed precisely for the pandemic fatigue the president was talking about. At that time we were going to explain the causes of the situation, also the data, the forecasts they had at those times. And now the situation is quite different, all of you know it well. And the causes that they produced, or why they produced that pandemic, we also know them well, they're the ones that I detailed in that appearance. Therefore, my explanations today on the causes and approach of the fifth wave will not differ from what I then gave to the committee. For this reason, to detail those aspects that led to the growth and the actions that they took, they will also allow us... I think the president has already done so, but from this I will also make some point, precisely as we look at the future from the point of view, also from the pandemic and above all from this hidden point of view that is not the one I personally covet, but from everything that leaves us the covet. You know well that I am always at your disposal to get back to you whenever and whenever you do, but now we need to focus, above all our interest and effort, precisely on this immediate evolution of the pandemic and, as I said now, precisely on this hidden issue. But back to the fifth wave, how it was produced, if we pay the start, which is what brings us to this appearance and in this debate, the growth of the infection is produced at the end of June and is the consequence, we have already explained, of a multifactorial situation with a common denominator that is the common denominator that has always occurred during the pandemic, which is social interaction. When we're interacting, clearly that's it, we know who the contagious mechanisms are. And if there is interaction..., and this is one of the problems that this pandemic has precisely, that one of the elements that is healthy in any relationship, that is interacting, that is having social life, social relationship, from the point of view of pandemic is not the best. And this social interaction came to an end, surely, therefore, the school activities, the academic activities, the initiation of the summer, also of an increment of tourism, not surely what..., a tourism, diguessim, familiar, but yes a tourism very, very young, that is the tourism that sees the great cities. This increase in social interaction is very different, very intense, with a group that... we also have to say, with a group of people who are the youngest people, who have behaved excellently throughout the pandemic. And I'll say this for a reason: because at no time – at no time – in the seventeen months that we carried out pandemics the youngest age groups were age groups with the greatest incidence. Yes, for this five-year-old, but not until that moment, never. Remember those, let's say, we recommend that we do above all Nadal: "Let's watch with the greatest people, "Let's watch with those people..., above all that they travel a lot of directions..., to everyone, but also to young people. And from this point of view, all these recommendations have been completed, I repeat and I insist, I think in an exquisite way. And up a moment, certainly, when we have some indicators that we went strong, where we also had a care pressure that went strong, where, and here we also commented on it in committee, all of us – political leaders, not politicians, I the first, I also said it – made a sense that we were already facing the exit well. We had at that moment around, if I don't recall, a forty per cent vaccination. We gave some... we talked about masks, didn't we? And I'm the first one myself. Or we're talking, for example, that football stadiums could be filled to a hundred percent, huh? So, let's say it or not, this feeling and this need to obliterate the pandemic is produced and we have those interactions that we talk about before and those images that we also saw some of us, all folds, in communication media, young people on trips, etc., where there is, I repeat, a lot of contact. From here, we need to introduce another element, which we were only acquainted with. In fact, the first round of press he did, I feel like a counselor..., I did it at the doctor's side..., with Carmen Cabezas, with Dr. Cabezas and Dr. Pumarola ; and with Dr. Pumarola, precisely, who went out systematically to explain how the variants were used..., he goes to explain to us one thing, that is that the delta variant ceases to be anecdotal and is already the five_per_cent, at that time, of the variants that follow in our territory. And this meant to say one thing: when you have a variant that stops being anecdotal and starts, already, to be a predominant variant, it means that it will quickly take over the whole land. It will be the one who will dominate. We know that, and it's also true that certainly because of this interaction of ours, also because we have..., and we are very open to the outside... Europe has not closed ever more borders and, among Europe, Catalonia does not cease to be a destination. And I repeat, that it is not the usual tourism in part or in number that we may have other years, so, the youngest tourism, the tourism that has ended these studies has come here. It means that there is a lot of interaction, a lot of change, and also, from this point of view, important the delta variant. In those moments the delta variant was already an important variant to the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom is also beginning to have an increase in the number of cases that we are following. Certainly, it is an increase in cases in the name of incidence but with little transcendence and with little translation in the hospital centers. And from this point of view, as also happens, so, at other times, well, let's start ourselves, let's start growing very quickly, because it was an exponential growth. And then, this same delta variant..., that at those times we knew it was more transmissible but we didn't have—we didn't have—the information, for example, that we had after, that at the top of the CDC investigations, in which the delta variant has a reproduction index similar to that of the varicella, between five and eight. That's why we, when we started, so, this month of June, we did anticipate, and we've already explained it, an increase of this interaction because it begins the summer. We predicted it, we made our estimates. The people who help us and collaborate with us with all that is data analysis, which you usually know, because they also see them in the communication media, had made a forecast to arrive up to a 2.4 of Rt and that, with the level we had of vaccination, with fifty-two per cent of vaccination, full schedule, that we would arrive at 15 July, so this charge, in some way, this charge, which would not be charged, would be controlled. Obviously, these assumptions were not complete, we know, the Rt went up by over four lengths. Fifty-two per cent of the vaccination we had..., we completed on July 15th, but it obviously wasn't enough to stop the wave. From here too – and we always have to say this – onades are not given in any way, they are not given onades to Catalonia or onades to Netherlands. We start the wave together with other countries, with Low Countries, etc. Then this one also replicated to other territories of Spain, or the rest of the territories of Spain – Spanish, forgiveness, and from this point of view, so it is found in many indirectes this five onada. I also want to remember one thing, and it's not about taking responsibility, but it turned out, when there was this feeling that the pandemic was over, there were a lot of professionals who were really worried. Worried about this dissociation that was given between the street, where there was no pandemic, but when you obstructed in a health center that you found was covid, pandemic, right? And from there appeared a manifesto of fifty, almost fifty scientific societies where they themselves, societies, say, many of us didn't know how to anticipate this situation, we didn't expect this five-year full-time, and they demanded that reduction in social interaction, remember those measures precisely because of the pressure that this was entailing, therefore, in the hospital centers. From this point of view, I repeat, the wave did not arrive solely and exclusively in Catalonia. One of the last countries where he arrived, also because he was one of the last to open borders, and that is paradigmatic in this sense, is Israel. Israel, you already know that, with the agreements it obtained with Pfizer, they began to immunize very quickly, they immunized very quickly. Israel – I speak now of memory – up to a sixty-fivec_per_cent approximate vaccination, complete schedule, approximately April. From here, they begin to relax the measures, they are practically a couple of months with relaxed measures, border workers. From here, of this border opening, also certainly of increment of what is the delta variant, it has had a _five onada, therefore, absolutely important, very important, with a lot of affectation, not only of infection at once also, of affectation in the hospital centers, and concretely to the units of intensive cures, which lead them to take decisions such as to immunize people with third dose or people of twelve or more years old. And with all that I want to say is that, I repeat, I insist, onades are not given in any way, but they are used to responding to general situations. What did we do? He's also known to all of you. So there was-there was the shutdown, unfortunately, of the night oci. And here I do want to make a very clear and strong point, that it is that, when, sometimes, we talk about a sector, the responsible one is not the sector, but certainly there are activities that are, let's say, precisely because they favor socialization, and because they make it difficult to compliment measures, which can be situations of greater risk. Not because the night oci sector is responsible for the situation we are living in. We limited the night hours of establishments, and the limitation in this sense, which was endorsed by the High Court of Justice, of two persons, limited to two persons from meetings, and also applied the night confinement, which was also endorsed by the High Court of Justice, in the municipalities of more than five thousand inhabitants that had a high incidence of cases, as, I repeat, with corresponding judicial coverage. They also made the cracks in concrete territories and special collections, as was the case with the monitors of leure and children participating in colonies, which they did from the pharmacy offices. From here, we have also started, or started a collaboration with the pharmacy offices that are very useful to us precisely in order to be able to do the same scribble, in this case, at schools. And what's very important, we put in almost 2,400,000 doses of cows. In that month of July, it was the month of July that came more cows, that the purchase was said to us, already agreed, that this was already a given calendar and that is already known, came and we also had this effort, so of these nearly two million and a half of cows. Then, from here and also during the month of August, we took different measures, such as opening twelve to fifteen years in order to be able to get to the very beginning of the school year, so with the two stages of vaccination, with a full schedule..., sorry, with the two doses. And we also took two decisions, like that of dating vaccination, precisely to facilitate..., we find that the month of August the names of people who go to the lower vaccination centers. We had prepared – because it was the doses that came to us – to be able to vaccinate 450,000 people, and we begin the month of August by vaccination of approximately 323,000, first-seven weeks. From here on out, we make a decision, we think it's probably because of the holiday. We think the pre-date could be a small lock. We open the quote..., sorry, we open the vaccination without a quote in different points and we make another element that we also think can favor the vaccination, that is to say: cattle 'you have the first dose in one of the four hundred points that there may have been taken from the territory, the second will already be vaccinated near your home, if it is returning from vacation, or where you believe more convenient. I say that, these two elements, because they are elements that, somehow, make logistics much more difficult. The most convenient thing, obviously, is not to have made this decision, but it makes this logistics much more difficult, and from this point of view, it also makes it difficult to know the demand. We'll discuss it later, but... From here, we have also made some awareness campaigns to society, to different collections, young people, but also to vaccinated people, such as the campaign« Un_de_cada_tre, « You can stop, can't you? , in the sense of, above all, this social interaction, reducing it, "Do not lower the guard, etc. What have we done from now on? So one of the things we've done is count on independent scientific advice. That's what we've always done. In fact, we committed ourselves in that commission to creating, to constitute this commission, a commission that at these times is thirty-two people, experts in the different camps: infectology, epidemiology, data analysis, microbiology, virolegs, etc., both infirmary and medicine. In fact, it is the extension of an unformalized group, but a group that has helped us and has advised us since the month of generation with everything that refers to vaccination. This committee will guide us precisely with the strategy to follow and with the decision making. Now how are we? So we're in a low-incidence situation, we're in an incidence of thirty-one cases per hundred_ thousand inhabitants. We're in a situation of a Rt of 1 and we think we'll be in this situation for sure for the next few days. From this point of view, it's a situation where people flock, the number of people going to primary care centers is small, affordable, manageable. If we have approximately 350 cases, the number of people per day and from the point of view of care allows us to drain to the hospital both those people who are admitted to the plant with those people who are in intensive care units. We must continue to promote vaccination, proximity vaccination with all media in our vicinity. That's not something like that. We've been doing this for many months now. Remember, if you want, one of the most emblematic actions as was the use of buses at different places, precisely where vaccination or coverage was lower and where there were the most disadvantaged populations from the social and economic point of view and previously already precisely at the inn in march to the buses and later we have done more than two-hundred actions of fine surgery, if 'empermits the expression, precisely looking for these groups. In conclusion, I would say that we should not lower the guard, the president said. From covid to we're still having it. We'll keep going. These months now, these weeks are the key. Basically, because it's the period of the coronaviruses, it's the late-winter time of the coronaviruses before the flu virus arrives. And it's very important that we be aware that we're still in a pandemic. I know this is hard. I know it's hard when you freak out, when you look, when you talk. We all want to say that this is over, but we're still in a pandemic. And from this point of view, as I said, to follow precisely the entire vaccination strategy and what the president said is very and very important: to keep the covens of the State, because although we may have less covens, the coven will still exist and above all, above all, very important, these sequences, these sequences that may not be seen, this hidden time that we have covens to face now, in these own months and in these very years decisively. Therefore, these coveted sources of the State its maintenance is very, very, very important. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.141.0	After the counselor's intervention and at the request of some groups, we will suspend the session for a space of two minutes. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.142.0	Yes, to inform the plenary that I have just been called by a professor of the UAB, Mr Rafael Arenas, telling me that a tent of the young people of S'Ha Afinet is being attacked right now! I think at the UAB. And they have them surrounded and they're not getting help from the Mosses. And I would ask the present adviser here to please take an interest in this matter and to defend people and property, even if they are constitutionalists. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.143.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you can download, talk to the counselor and now comment on this question. We put the suspension of the session until the twelve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.144.0	Please, if they're occupying their escons, we'll resume the session. [[Question to the Government on the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees (withdrawn)]] [[300-00046/13]] And before I give the word to Mr. Illa, I dare you that the question to the Government about the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees has withdrawn. Therefore, the one we made jump in the order of yesterday's day, finally, was withdrawn by the Republican Left Group. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to report on the management and evolution of the fifth wave of the covid-19 pandemic (continuation)]] [[350-00006/13]] And, therefore, representatives of parliamentary groups will continue to speak for a maximum of two minutes each. Mr. Salvador Illa begins, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.145.0	Okay. Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Aragonès, Mr. Argimon, I want to start with two preliminary considerations. First, to express our condolences and regret all the deaths that have occurred in this pandemic. And, second of all, aggravate the effort at the pool of health professionals, also at the pool of society, right? , for the effort they've made, for the capture they've had throughout this pandemic. Going to the grass, isn't it? My thesis, the thesis of my group – which knows that in this assumption we always have a collaborative focus – is that logically this is not over, we continue in a pandemic. But there's nothing to see the situation we're in today with the last few months, is there? And that's thanks, basically thanks, not just, but basically thanks to the vaccination that marked the way out. Some data to frame, to give context to my intervention, you also gave it, counselor, also the president, right? At today's date, nothing, four indicators very fast, right? The cumulative incidence at the level of Spain is fourteen days, isn't it? , cases per cent_1,000 inhabitants, of 52.14. Catalonia is a top point, 80.14. If we look at the incidence on seven days – you had also made reference – mark a downward trend, right? 21,75 to Spain. In Catalonia, the last data I have registered is 33.75– you have mentioned, it seems, 31, is the same –, marks a downward trend. The last month, also at the conjunct of all Spain, also in Catalonia, the patients hospitalized in both conventional beds as in UCI beds have dropped more than half in one month. That's a good one. The malfunctions have also gone along with this trend. A death is excessive, isn't it? You're a mass, aren't you? But we followed the downward trend. And in terms of vaccination, so we're practically eighty per cent with a single dose to Catalonia and Spain, too. And with full doses practically the seventy-eight_per_cent at the conjunct of Spain, right? If we look at data broken down by age groups, it's also good data. And it's not a race, getting vaccinated isn't a race, it's not a competition, but, well, if we compare ourselves to the rest of the European Union's countries, then Portugal and Malta are above ours – so, let's go in third place – and if we compare ourselves to the G-20 countries, then it seems to me that we're going first or we're going first. So, we're going well, let's just say, it's working well, isn't it? So, I appreciate very much the explanations given by the President as much as you, Counselor, by Mr Aragonès as by Mr Argimon; I thank them very much. They know that my group is willing to work together, even if we don't know how hard it is to make contact with you, in other words, faster and more assiduous. But I wouldn't want to focus my intervention or go over what has happened – I insist, I thank the explanations – or see myself... I don't want to go in there either, there are things we could make you comment on, some saying that there was a vote... I don't want to go in there. I want this intervention... I think it's more useful, don't I? , of the future. And five theses. I want to hold five theses. In short, five theses I think will mark the future of the pandemic, right? Follow vaccination, first of them. Second, prudent overture – prudent – but overture, of the economy. Third, mobility impulse awake. Fourth, assess to learn and improve. Five-year-olds, strengthen the health system. In all of them I have to say, in order to reassure us all already of entry, that the Government is on the right line. Counselor, you know that more than my personal complicity in many and many things, that you have it, well, well, I think it's going in the right line. But some considerations do that about these five steps, let me just say, of the future to follow closely in the next few months, I would like to make some considerations, right? The first one. First of them, right? Vaccination. Well, it's a consensual vaccine at the level of all of Spain, at the level of all of Europe, isn't it? First, continue to vaccinate, especially young people and those who – still there, seem to be lied, huh? There's still – they're skeptical, they're less skeptical, but they're still skeptical. And look at the evidence... [[the timer riu]] She's a bassist, but she's still there. Therefore, continue to make an effort here. Two. Yesterday the third dose was agreed to seventy-year-old majors. Well, I think here, so, let's get down there. Three. Home, let's try – I don't want to put in more for that formatting, huh? – that we don't have any doses left to administer and that if we can send them to where we need them, eh? Four. It's counting on the flu vaccination. You're important. There's an agreement, if I'm not misinformed, that the campaign is starting this second fortnight of October, the first fortnight of November. And it is important that we pose and send a message to all – all – society, and especially vulnerable groups, that it is important to get vaccinated. Just like we did last year. Last year we did it, and fortunately there were a lot of flu cases, right? And five, in the matter of vaccine, I think we also have to refer to a tape, if I may, finally, very relevant, I don't know if I qualify it as historic, do I? , what is the stage I and IIA phase I and IIA clinical trial of Hipra, isn't it? , of the Hipra vaccine. It's the first time in Spain, and in Catalonia too, that it's a clinical cure for a human vaccine produced here. First time. Coinciding with the pandemic bigger than the last hundred years. Well, that's a collectible success. In the first place, of the company, but collect, of the whole system. I think we need to be proud, until we admit that we feel proud of the gironi, don't we? What's a Girona thing, huh? End of story, huh? 'Cause I know there's a lot of sensitivity here, huh? We make a concession from the Maresme and the Vallès Oriental, president, if it seems to you. That's pretty good, huh? And, therefore, I am aware that you are following him on his own, you, counselor. No, no... I mean, we don't sing victory before the king, but there are already three cohorts that have all two doses administered. And, finally, I know that there is a close collaboration. And, well, so good that you can give us a good news to the beginnings of the coming year, right? Second. Prudent opening of the economy. With prudence – with prudence – but the economy must be opened up in the line that is being made. Third. Mobility agreed in the field of covid passport, as it has been granted at European level. Here it is true that more than 26.5 million certificates have been issued in Spain. Most of them are vaccine, people vaccinated, the other part are people who have already overcome, have recovered from the disease. I have to say that Catalonia is doing well in comparative terms, it's from the autonomous communities that the most certificates have been issued, and that's very important because it's feedback from the recovery of the economy, which is the second thing I said, isn't it? Three. Assess to learn and improve. Finally, in my previous stage as Minister of Sanitat we jointly promoted a working group to make a joint assessment of the national health system. Catalonia actively participated, a group of experts has already been set up... I think it's very important that we do, that we start doing it – now we can't do it –, right? Take it easy. But I say evaluate to learn and to improve, not so much to signify with the saying, if... I don't care about this, I care, I think you share it, that we value to improve and to learn. I, fifth thing: strengthen the system of salvation here. The truth is, we have our dues. I want to put a lot of emphasis, today, on a fact that seems very relevant to me, because it usually transcends these sessions always, so, the cockroach, the discussion, the easy phrase... It was approved for a vast majority of this chamber you said passed a resolution proposal negotiated between the three majority groups of the chamber in the matter of salvation, right? They only voted against two groups, didn't they? He voted against it practically from all over the chamber. That it's a twenty-and-six-point deal on what's to be done to the health care system. That's the work program you have, counselor, huh? And it's not, if I may say so, his work program, it's that of the chamber, for a vast majority. It was a eighty-eight or a noranta_per_cent, most of it, wasn't it? He talks about public health, he talks about primary care, he talks about what needs to be done with health professionals, how he should reward for what they have done and give them more... he talks about promoting sports, he talks about primary care. There was, of course, an agreement with Canàries these past few days, you know I couldn't be there personally but there was a director general of your department, yes, I know, I'm not saying..., and I know there was an active pressure. This is the work program, isn't it? – this is the work program. I, the only one who asks, and in this sense I want to be very clear, too, huh? Mr. Aragones, you said, "We need money, everything, it's always good money, isn't it? But there's no excuse, is there? To do that. And you, Mr. Argimon, will have all our support to pull it forward. Everything. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, But the pandemic is not over – the pandemic is not over. And you need... your department, you and the country need the resources they need. You'll always have us here to ask, won't you? And if we want to talk about finance, let's talk about it. Mr. Aragones, let's talk to him. But you're running..., I read today that they approved yesterday the unfunded expense relief at the Executive Board, almost 30,000_million euros. That's a lot of money, huh? Therefore, we administer them well and place them where necessary, which is in the matter of sanitation. If they're on this path... I think it's very important, I want to re-remark it, very, very important, the deal that was done as a result of the general policy debate, I think it sums up the consensus of the chamber, and so we don't start to open a point of saying, listen to me, if there's no money: no, no, no, there's no need, huh? And anyway, I'm counting on us. If someone doesn't see it coming, they're counting on us, right? Therefore, all the support in this topic, all the willingness to collaborate. It's not over. We're so much better. We're still vaccinating and we're still opening up an economy in the form of prudence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.146.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.147.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, after the intervention of the conseller de l'oposicio, I'm going to clarify over dark what was the management around the pandemic in general, specifically over the fifth wave, and say, then, what you all hide in a twist. The agenda item literally prayed: appearance of the President of the Generalitat, Mr Aragonès, to report on the management and evolution of the fifth wave of the pandemic. Only and exclusively it has parapeted after being the councillor of Salut, where it has exposed the evolution of the fifth wave, but we have not talked about anything about the management of the pandemic. And it is logical, because the management of the pandemic in Catalonia has been based primarily on lies. Because you, the Government of the Generalitat, have shown, day after day, week after week, month after month, that you have other priorities. Since the beginning of the pandemic, they have shown it on a permanent basis: they are more concerned, as I told you this morning, about meeting the needs of separatist leaders, rather than really worrying about those emergencies of the hundreds of thousands of Catalans who have been going through it badly, and not only and exclusively about the impact of the virus, but about the consequences of the disastrous management that you have carried out. And these last few weeks, as I also told you this morning, we have seen again how you are far removed from the real concerns of the Catalans and continue permanently to be part, to contribute, to push all those separatist covens to support Puigdemont in Sardinia... In short, you have shown that you are more likely to be a coup player than the tails of hunger, insecurity or the ruin of thousands of Catalans. And I'm going to give him..., I'm going to make it very graphic. To summarize the management of the pandemic in general, its management of the pandemic in Catalonia, which is summarized in this image. [[The orator shows an image to the chamber.]] This is the management of the Generalitat of the pandemic. Hunger queues, Mr. Aragonès, that's it. Because its management, as I have told you, has been based on lies, has been based on misinformation, contradictory messages, lack of leadership and rigour, and on the permanent – on the permanent – violation of rights and freedoms that once again demonstrated its inability to manage. Every new wave, new failure. And the fifth wave, which is the subject of today's debate, is the continuation of its disastrous management once again. Another failure while, as I said, you were dedicated and dedicated to promoting independence, to organizing tributes to remember the coup d'état... In short, you permanently promoting your agenda and forgetting the general interest of the citizens; that you have condemned, as I have said, to misery, ruin, unemployment and lack of hope. Once again, thanks to you, the Catalans, abandoned. A disastrous health management. I'm not going to go into comparisons with the rest of the autonomous communities. Today it is said here, 23,900 deaths. We are – it has not been said here, but I remember – the second autonomous community with more infected toilets and an absolutely inoperative Procicat; a Procicat, by the way, to which, through the Councillor of the Interior, we have addressed a number of questions, because very little has been said about Procicat, very little has been said. We do not know who they are, what responsibilities they have in particular, how decisions are made, where the minutes of those meetings are. In short, it has been an absolutely opaque body that has not involved even the members of this House in the decisions that have been taken. And this we have recorded permanently in this chamber and we have obtained, as it could not otherwise be, answers from fireworks and thus desisting from the true approaches that we wanted to know in order to respond to the concerns of many of our compatriots. The management of its pandemic could also relate it to irresponsible economic management, as I told you, and with the consequence of the social drama of so many families in Catalonia. Because that economic management, in the end, what it has been..., as a result of a series of enthusiastic policies, of defense policies, in the end, of all kinds of arbitrary restrictions. And you have to say, arbitrary restrictions. You are responsible for the destruction of employment, the destruction of strategic sectors such as hospitality and night leisure, and so many other sectors, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. There are data: 378,000 unemployed, of whom 228,000 are long-term unemployed; that is, Catalans who want to work and cannot. That is the consequence of their disastrous management. In addition, of course, of the 47,949 who are in ERTE. But, yes, as it couldn't be otherwise, you have used those perfectly subsidized lackeys to prepare the red carpet for today's appearance. And yesterday it transcended in the media, in a crooked way, as it could not be otherwise, how you are going to open the CAPs – lie –; how you were already progressing yesterday that you were going to open in a bad way or that you were going to reduce the limitations around night entertainment, but you are hiding the reality of night entertainment. For example, in the words of Fecasarm, they said not long ago that they had gone from being in the position..., in the ranking at the national level, in the second position of economic activity, on the night leisure, to being out of the top five at the national level, and this is thanks to you. And they also say that you silence that sixty percent of the premises are in insolvency. And that's the real management you guys have done about the pandemic. And you are now going to be the promoters of a health passport that is an attack on the rights and freedoms of all citizens. It is a measure that we are convinced is unconstitutional, discriminatory and without any kind of effectiveness. We will, of course, be about whether they pass a decree, whether they pass a law, because, as it could not be otherwise, we defend the freedom of all citizens to reside where they reside. As I told you, your management becomes ruinous. You have also taken advantage of the pandemic..., and I say « you have taken advantage of it because your inaction has shone for your excellence, which is nothing else that has destroyed our health system. You've destroyed it. You have despised our healthcare staff; you have used it and you have lied to them. It should, indeed, give you absolute shame how you have used our healthcare staff. They have acted, without going any further... – that Mr Argimon did not say this at the end of July – they have acted as real trilers. There are communications from the Servei Català de Salut addressing medical professionals, around 19 July and 20 July, where they were told how they were going to compute the hours of additional days in order to try to avoid the saturation of the health personnel during the holidays; they were told at the beginning that they were going to pay them in one way; then they were told, when they had already sacrificed their holidays, that they were going to pay them in another way... That is, you have used them once again, instead of protecting them, to strengthen the health personnel and to give them everything they deserve, among other things, to guarantee the health and well-being of all Catalans. Other information about your pandemic management..., is that, in these years, up to eighty_per_cent of rescheduled surgeries we have had to postpone and many of them still to date no date assigned. Another important fact to have on the table, as a result of its harmful management, is that they have reduced the diagnosis of diseases to sixty_per_cent compared to the previous year; another consequence of its harmful management around the pandemic. In short, that its harmful management of the virus is causing many Catalans to be neither diagnosed nor treated in Catalonia. This is your balance sheet; i.e., more waiting lists and undiagnosed patients. I would not like to leave the opportunity of my intervention to put once again how you have also unprotected our elders. In the midst of the pandemic, they turned the homes of elderly people into real morgues; they abandoned them. And today they still have to manage many of these residences CAPs, which means, that is, genuine chaos in the management of clinical records, without being able to control the evolution of patients well and, of course, again an overload of attention in the primary system. And finally – which I have very little time left, and then I will continue – you were talking about the importance of strengthening the health system, but you were calling for it to not be easy because we don't have enough money. Look, stop messing with the Catalans as a whole, because you know how much money you waste on your ideological delusions and on your rupturist agenda. I am not going to recite to you again the millions of euros that you allocate, for example, to external action, to the Institut Català de les Empreses Culturals, to the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, and a long and more than millions of euros that you throw away while you tell our health system that you have no money to strengthen the health personnel, to improve the infrastructures and, ultimately, to ensure the well-being of all Catalans. They don't have any kind of shame. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore – and I conclude – it also referred to the necessary investment in the increase of health personnel. Yes, indeed, because we still have the same numbers of health workers as we did two years ago. Shame on you, isn't it? In the midst of the pandemic, they have been unable to strengthen our health system. And it is logical that no one wants to come to Catalonia to work or that those who are going to the rest of Spain or the rest of the countries. You demand, for example, the level C of Catalan, you impose an additional workload on them and the salaries are of absolute misery. In short, you are the main enemy of the health and prosperity of all Catalans. Therefore, stop making false artifices in your interventions and really put yourself to work and ensure the well-being of all Catalans. Thank you very much for the extra time, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.148.0	The words "Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Winning, are added.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.149.0	Well, thank you, President. We're having this appearance a little late. Let's talk about the quinta onada when a few even said we might be at..., we could get to an onada, right? So it's a little complex to be able to evaluate or analyze where we are. But it would please us, first of all, to take a short rest from how we got to the quinta onada. There had been a hasty overture, a hasty overture in response to economic interests and not of salvation or social criteria. The warnings of primary care were ignored, because, yes, it is true, the effects or impacts of the delta variant were not known, but the primary care carried weeks alerting of saturation. But, as we only look at the hospital system, we finally got to the quinta onada. And, as I said, they either ignored or ignored the effects of the delta variant that many professionals were saying, and, therefore, public salvation was lacking, as it always happens, therefore, to lack the watchwords of those we possess. Therefore, before this, before this reality, it is clear that it is not possible to re-open or reactivate things in a hasty way and that it is necessary to reinforce vaccination; that any re-activation that responds only to economic criteria that ends up generating is our effects on public health. And he's focused a lot on the last few weeks the debate on reactivation on the night oci. We understand that there is a part of hypocrisy around this debate, because we focus only on this part of socialization – and more so, on the part of the socialization of young people – but we see the rest of socialization; we see public transport, where everyone who has worked finds themselves massed every morning, regardless of those days that have wandered – where, from here, we want to send all the support to the workers. There was a lot of obviating from the fact that people are socialized by obligation so that they can go to work at the time of taking action, and criminalized and sectoralized at night talking about young people. Moreover, the private night octopus has been swept away with popular culture and popular festivals, so that the use of public space has also been limited in this sense. And, once we're here, we find ourselves with this weekend's head appearing statements from Cat Salut's head where we've not only been criminalizing the night or the young, but also now it turns out that the primary care staff are either forced or told to work harder, and so the mayor will have economic incentives, making sure that all this time he's been working overloaded. And it's said or recommended a series of things that are already happening. Is it now that I can't ask for time? Or is it that she's not asking why she wants a doctor's visit? It's over now. Who's the message they're sending to the city, that so far the CAPs aren't doing this? Because it's not true. At the same time, let them know or say that perhaps the managed staff will be the one who will do the screening. This happened thirty years ago, and it was decided that no more, which is why there is medical staff in primary care. You know, every one of us does the work that comes next to him, 'cause that's why he's here, isn't it? , some elements or functions have been long-term. Therefore, what we are asking is that, if we are talking about primary care, what is done is to strengthen primary care, but to strengthen primary care from the point of view of stabilising the workforce, ensuring the working conditions of the current workforce, that it is possible to prevent people with temporary contracts who only work week-ends if what is needed is personal between week-ends. Let's establish this template, let's get this out of the way. But, in the same way, if you now have to unravel a certain tap that there can be in primary care, in the same way that at a certain point you brought personal primary care to the hospital, because it is always the priority of the hospital, why don't we do the opposite? , why do we not guarantee that the gateway to the public health system, at a time like the present, has the personnel necessary to give response to the public health needs of this country at a time when it represents that it must begin..., or it must recover normality. But, at the same time, beyond the staff, we go to the infrastructure of primary care: in many cases, primary care centres are neglected, abandoned; they need, they also require reversal. So, let's do this, that's to say, we really put resources into primary care. Another of the central elements is, after all, the theme of the mental salvation of young people. And we told them: "Yes, it is a problem. But the mental salvation of young people is a reflection of the situation of adults in the framework of the economic and social system in which we live; therefore, we work on the social determinants of salvation: they do redistributive policies, in admissions and expense, in both things. Mental salvation is a problem, yes, but it has to do with the system in which we live and with the living conditions of the people. So, as far as we're concerned, that's what we're talking about. Look, we have a system of public health weakened; weakened not only for a year and a half of pandemic, weakened for years of privatizing policies of "socio-vergency and retail". The question we are asking is: the 5,000_million euros that must go to salvation where exactly they go? Draining the public-private concertation system that has been taking advantage of the public-health system for years? Are they going to cover the holes in the management of the consortia that we have seen for years as being deficient? They have the opportunity to show that they really gamble for the public salvation of this country: twenty-five percent of the pressure to primary attention, but that it is to strengthen the teams, do not seek subterfuges; they also dignify the game of public salvation, the tools of vigilance and prevention, which are the ones that end us in the background, right? , generating also benevolent. And stay consistent with the measures they apply. At a certain point, they said they wouldn't do PCRs to close vaccinated contacts, and Mr. Argimon said it wasn't necessary, in an interview. But, at the end of a few months, we do have to make PCRs at the people's close contacts... or so on, of vaccinated personnel. We don't understand. I mean, do we have to do PCR if we're close contacts or not? Because there's been a moment that's not right now. Then they don't know. Be consistent. In relation to the covid passport, we are extremely concerned about guarantees for the protection of personal data; we are concerned that there is no way to ensure that these data will be secure. You said yes, but explain it to us; explain how they'll be safe, because, if you don't know how, so the words sometimes take away the wind. But we're also concerned, or we're asking you to ensure that people in an irregular administrative situation get out of these data, because we already know what's going on. That people in an irregular administrative situation are safe at home. Therefore, we are generally concerned about the dynamics of social control that can be opened with this door. And, therefore, we need more explanation and more guarantees than it will be. And I'm done. During the pandemic, the service that became the most famous was 061. A vacancy notification came in yesterday. The staff of 061_notified a vacancy. Yes, they will say: "It is the question of the railway company, but I would say that the Health Department also has some responsibility. They ask for personal and family reconciliation; they ask for a decent remuneration; they ask for a reduction in chance. Here, you, Health Department, have the opportunity to start solving it. Did the contract with Ferrovial end, will they internalize it or not? That, of course, advisor Argimon, you are also advisor thanks to the investment agreement of the CUP with Esquerra, do not forget; it is also thanks to this agreement that is advisor. So, in short, so far, they have devoted a lot of time to restricting rights; it's time to provide rights, to you seeking to provide rights: right to salvation, but also social, cultural and economic rights. It's starting to be time. And now, right? , can have the opportunity to change the dynamics of the past year and a half: less restrict rights and more provide rights. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.150.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.151.0	Thank you, President. From our parliamentary group we wanted to begin, therefore, by first expressing our show of condolences to all the families who have lost an esteemed person because of the covid, also expressing our support for the health professionals, who I believe have given it all during this pandemic, and also having a record for the people who have persistent covid, who I believe is an invisible mass reality, and who also knows the counselor who cares and cares for us so as to give an answer, right? In the first place, I would also like to thank your explanations. We think they arrive a little late; we approved the appearance, at the request of our parliamentary group, on July 29th, and we stretched a little the Rules, because theoretically the president had to appear only thirty days later and practically two months later, didn't he? And, therefore, it is certain that now to value the management of the quinta onada seems a little far away. We will, but we will also propose proposals or questions on how to deal with this new stage. I think you're obvious, don't you? And I don't think it was a good thing that the councilman recognized it, that the five-year management didn't work out, that there were mistakes, and that they brought us to a situation that came to an assistance pressure of almost seven hundred people in the ICU at the end of July and August, right? , and, obviously, Catalonia, therefore, beat records of contagion. We placed it, also in the petition for appearance and also in the appearance that we also claimed from the counselor, who was made on July 28, basically five great mistakes. In the first place, he let Catalonia's primary care return to collapsing. And that's a lot to see, too, with this demand that we've done, and we've moved it many times that we need to reinforce primary care, that we need to get to this twenty-five percent – after I mention it – but we also need staff who weren't satisfied. And that ended, in the end, basically, well, by altering the care activity of primary care centers, which they had been affected for a long time, didn't it? Secondly, they produced when there was already a certain incidence or an increase in the incidence at the beginning of July..., they allowed macro-musical festivals, which, moreover, more than that of the increase in concrete contagion, I think they were lenght, I would say, no? , an image of a false security and a change of tendency that in the end had not occurred. In the third place, I think that, in the descalade, it was talking about that we didn't know, right? , the effects of the delta variant. Home, I think the one that was passing to the United Kingdom and the one that was passing to Great Britain marked us with a little impact that had the varying delta, like at least its ability to contag, that I do think it was above the table, and I think it was too quick to do the night octopus unscathed, right? Then there were contradictory messages, right? That is to say, we passed a_me demanding the Government of the State or the Catalan Government passed a_me demanding the Government of the State the imminent removal of the mask, then, at the end of fifteen days, to claim that another time we return to wear the mask. Yes, the counselor did; he went out and said it, he didn't mind. And then he also lost track capability. I mean, there was a time when we didn't know, right? So, what was going on with the epidemic in Catalonia? So it's obvious that they made mistakes. I also think they delayed the petition for appearances because maybe you had to give explanations, the president, about a member of your government skipping, didn't you? , the recommendations and restrictions that existed in Catalonia. I want to remind you that what Vice President Puignero did, in other places and in other countries, to the State, has implied his cessation or resignation. That is to say, members who had responsibilities in a government that failed the restrictions ended up resigning, for example, to Britain, too, right? And so, ultimately, the feeling that we have is that – I also say it with everything, right? Certainly – if, in the accounts of Councillor Argimon, the Head of Salvation was the Councillor Vergés, these members of government that you have, that are so blind and that they are so united, had ended by demanding the resignation of Mrs Vergés, and that they did not do so because, therefore, it was surely the Councillor Argimon. In fact, the President or President of the General, Mr. Torra, has surely made very different statements than he did in the last few months about the management of the pandemic, has he not? I'd like to go in now, but it's, well, we want to plant, too, right? , ask, but also proposals for the future in six axes, which I believe are of fundamental importance. The first, and earlier reference, is in primary care. We think it's helpful to get to that twenty-five per cent, by the way, for primary care. I think that with your data – if I didn't make a mistake, it will correct me, that you placed the health assumption around EUR 12,000_million – we say we were, right? , in a twenty-i-u_per_cent of the attention. We're around, aren't we? , to reach this twenty-i-five_percent of 500 or 600_million euros. Actually, I was complaining to her. Tell us, because we want to help him, how much money he really needs to go to primary care. And we are very concerned about the recovery of face-to-face and the re-opening of consultancies. What I think can't happen is that what worked before the pandemic got out of the pandemic changed the way they made it work. And I think they've turned into a giant species – and we're worried too, aren't we? – the new system they want to implement, in a species of gimcana to access the health professionals of primary care. It is to say that the citizens feel that, among comets, the primary care is being bunkering. And that I think is a problem. And so is longitudinality, which, why do you understand us, is that your head restraint or your health professionals are always the same, right? And that's not happening either. The second element we want to place is: we believe that there is a plan to recover diagnostic tests. In fact, his own department recognized that he was lost, right? , about thirty_per_cent of the diagnostic test capacity. In fact, there have also been studies of primarists who speak of up to fifty per cent in frequent maladies. Actually, he was out the other day, too, wasn't he? A study that talked about reducing the ability to detect disease, such as hypertension, cardiovascular disease, right? , diabetes; with ciphers moving around forty_per_cent. So, I think that here we should also have... the department would have... how I want to get it back. We have the feeling that only with cents, that's what, right? It looked like the other day, economic incentives to increase this diagnostic capability on the part of the centers, I don't know if we'll get there, right? I mean, I don't know if there's a part of staff reinforcement, if that's possible, as it can be. And, therefore, I think this is an element to tend to present, right? The third element or the third eix is mental salvation. I think here too – and I've said it several times –..., that's to say, copy to what works. I mean, in Barcelona we have the suicide prevention phone. I have the feeling that 061 is not a good idea, among other things because 061, I just said it, it's the way it is. The staff, the health managers can no longer, and they have called for a vacancy, because their working conditions, plus, their exhaustion level, have reached a limit situation. So I copied the one that already works. I also believe that, in addition, we should start discussing whether we can increase the ratio of public psychologists and public psychiatrists for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants. Can we do it in the proper presuppost, yes or no? The programme, for example, Konsulta'm, of free psychology without a pre-date that Barcelona has, we can extend it further beyond Barcelona to different points of Catalonia, yes or no? We also propose it in this sense for which it refers to mental salvation. Fourth element, residences. You also know there's a lot of discomfort. I think protocols cause confusion, which, more than that, don't they? , generate rebreig on a very important part of the families. And here too'reclaims an element that has to do with Greeting, which is the fact that the mutual system does not work well, and what needs to be, isn't it? those people who live in the residences still have their connection to their primary care centre. And that's what the resident family community is claiming, too, isn't it? And I'm also announcing them, you know, that's to say, they're gonna have to position themselves on a commission of inquiry into what happened to the residents. We're not good with a study commission. And they'll have to decide whether they're doing the same thing that happened in Madrid, which is that the PP and VOX tried to cover up what happened with the residences, or in Catalonia we can have a debate that will be, calm, and to know exactly what happened to the residences. Five eix, the schools. Or go on, choose them, who were the first to be locked, cannot be the last to open or reopen with a certain normality. He didn't feel that the protocols were still the same throughout the school year, and more with the situation we're living in. It didn't feel like you could go for a drink now, to say the least, and you can't make certain activities in the school that claim that parents can enter the school; that, for example, can't? You can party or celebrate at school. Obviously, as you said, the pandemic has not disappeared, but, of course, I can say, I can go to three in the morning to get a drink, but certain things can't be done at school. And I end up with vaccination. I only want to convey two questions here: as we move from a massive strategy to a door-to-door strategy, which I think is where we should go. What's the point we're making, realistic, of when we can get to the vaccination level and how we can get there. I mean, we're at this seventy-two percent. Can we get there? And then with impact... what's our priority? Is it better to get to the 80th or the 100th full schedule or will the priority now be the third dose to the seventy-year-old majors? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think we have to have this, too. And I'm done, a question. I think I'm a coward, don't I? We've always said it was an opportunity to rethink, to change the model, to rethink how we wanted our system of salvation. And here I think we can't make passes back. I invite you to step forward, and I am very concerned about the statements you make, for example, that you do not want to internalize 061 or health transport. I would also like to know the opinion of the President of the Generality, whether the opinion is that of his Councillor of Salut or, in any case, that is what we claim, that is this internalization of the 061 and of the sanitary transport. Today the President has the opportunity to determine which is the position of the Government, too, on the grounds that for us they are fundamental, that they have to deal with the rights of workers and workers, such as what happens to the co-payers of workers and health net workers who did not collect it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.152.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.153.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, look, there are two sentences that I want to say to you today with reference to this attack that is taking place right now in the UAB, at the hands of the so-called 'anti-fascists'. One is attributed to Oriana Fallaci: "There are two types of fascists, the fascists and the anti-fascists. And another to Churchill: "The fascists of the future will call themselves antifascists. These people who call themselves anti-fascists are, at the moment, destroying a tent of pupils who have only been planted in the Civic Square using their freedom of expression. They're surrounded. They are now surrounded, with a professor of international law among them. The mossos are refusing to enter. They're making a hallway for them to come out. I have denounced the hatred, the spiral of hatred that is now existing in Catalonia, before with that banner of Terra Lliure in the Faristol, and Mr Aragonès has trivialized these facts and said that he had no knowledge, and has refrained from commenting on them and condemning them. I hope you do not consider this another trivial fact, because you are trivializing violence – you are trivializing violence. And I say to you: now when I finish my speech we are going to go where we have to defend freedom, which is at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, in the face of the passivity of our government. I will go there to see what happens and to see if they dare to attack us to the Members of Ciutadans, who are going there to defend freedom. That's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, that's good, That's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.154.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.155.0	And then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.156.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.157.0	And then I wanted to comment on what brought us here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.158.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.159.0	Yes, tell me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.160.0	I've done it now... I've put his pause in the clock because he knows perfectly well that Article 88 speaks of the consistency of the debates, and I call him back to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.161.0	We are absolutely tired of the separatism using the minutes devoted to any kind of debate to make its own separatist speech, the freedom of political prisoners and everything that is spoken in this Parliament, always taking advantage of the fact that a speaker has the floor. And making use of the same freedom that members of separatist parties take, this member of a constitutionalist party, today harassed in the streets, harassed people, harassed students by separatism, so I have made use of this freedom. And I'll do it by going to the Autonomous University of Barcelona, Mrs. Geis, and I expect your conviction. Those who point out as fascists to those who are not are responsible for this spiral of hatred, Mrs Geis, and you have not hesitated when you called the members of an association for bilingualism fascists, because then those who put on the label of antifascists attack those who themselves dispense with the labels of fascism. And thank you, Madam President. And I stick to the origin of this appearance. Look, Mr Aragonès, with regard to the management of the pandemic, there is no doubt that the pandemic indicators have pointed out that we are better than a few months ago, when the fifth wave struck us. We must thank all the professionals who have immunized at a standstill. It is a pandemic that in Catalonia has resulted in 23,918 deaths, a terrible figure. To all of them, to their families, we want to send a reminder. Many have seen, too, how your small business, your life savings have been squandered by many of the indiscriminate restrictions that you have applied without compensating for those with financial aid. We see how they now say they are going to open up the night's leisure, to which you have left to die, and it seems that you believe that, only with the ritual phrases that..., which were told to Lazarus « lift up and walk, the sector is already going to rise, it is going to rise and it is going to move. This Friday opens the night, but with entrepreneurs and workers in town just two days from the reopening. Now you're thinking about the digital covid certificate and the measures you're going to take. Hey, it's been a year and a half closed. This should be prepared, it's not the time to evaluate whether you're going to the TSJ. And to see how they present it in the TSJ, and to see – let's see – how they look at it, because you, when you went to the TSJ to ask for things related to the pandemic, did not come out just too well standing. I hope you're doing well this time. Look, I think that you, Mr Aragonès, will go into history for two things, basically: by being the president who says that it will culminate the independence of Catalonia with a blackmail table and, the other, by the disastrous management that you carry out of the pandemic. We do agree that one of the most important issues is to vaccinate more, much more; to vaccinate also the younger people. That's a line that we... that we agree on. We are also..., we would ask you to, say, take care of the reinforcement that the health system needs, precisely, derived from the covid issue. The delay in diagnostic tests has increased by 38.7_per_cent compared to 2019. It is not that the diseases send, but that we are not being able to diagnose them. You have to make a shock plan and you have to explain how you plan to do it to recover all that delayed diagnosis that has accumulated throughout the year and a half of pandemic. We would like to hear commitments, concrete dates, evaluation mechanisms put in place... Not everything can be trusted to the will and transformative plans, with professionals leaving their skins, without you fulfilling your commitments. And I also want here to remind the professionals... again the cleaning professionals of the hospitals, whom you have denied an economic gratification. You have also recognized the mental health problems and the accelerating impact of the pandemic. We have for many times denounced the shortcomings of the system in the field of mental health, where there are already endemic in the Catalan health much less attention, much less visits than these diseases would require. If you now say you're going to lend, you've even talked about 80_million in this game, I hope we can understand ourselves at this particularly important point in mental health management. And, on the other hand, you too, and speaking of money, announced last week 5,000_million_euros more for health. He said that, of that sum, twenty-five_per_cent would go to primary care; it has been referred to again. A good percentage, yes, you said twenty-five_per_cent of that amount for primary care and we told you that that percentage of reinforcement to primary care seems very important to us. I hope... anyway, in Catalonia we are far below the levels recommended by the WHO for primary care, which needs a good portion of the budget, up to twenty-five_per_cent of the total health budget should go, according to the WHO, to primary care; here in Catalonia, according to the data of 2019, we were going through the thirteen. The truth is that, in Andalusia, according to the data of 2019, we were already by the eighteenth, and we are one of the autonomous communities that invests least in primary care. When you talk about money to us we get the trembling because we think "well, of course, when you start talking, from the successive governments that we have had in recent years in the Generalitat of Catalonia of the resources that you need, act followed as we all know that everything you do not do will be blamed on the insufficient resources, to the 18,000_millions that you have now taken out of the sleeve with Mr Giró, where before it was 16,500_millions now we have a deficit supposedly of 18,000, and therefore, since we already know that your promises of money and of devoting more resources, you do them with joy because you think that at the moment that you fail them because the fault is always going to be Madrid. In the meantime, things happen that you do when you hand over covid-19 funds to TV3; that's not missing. Finally, Mr Aragonès, I would summarise: the pandemic sends out, but the challenges of the health system remain; we cannot lower the guard, there is a lot of work to do and the same thing I was saying a moment ago in the area of public safety, of freedoms, also in the area of health, we have to face up to the responsibilities, we have to look into the eyes of people when things are happening obvious, that there is a widespread complaint about the shortcomings of the health system, and they are also being expressed by the opposition about freedoms and the lack of strength, and the little solidarity that you have when violence comes from the separatist side. For then I believe that political shame should cause you to react, both in health and in freedoms, I repeat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.162.0	Next, and on behalf of the parliamentary group... on behalf of the Mixt Group, has the word Mr. Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.163.0	Thank you very much, President. I wanted to start this intervention by addressing me to the young people of S'ha Finat! attacked today at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, to tell them that you are not alone, that sometimes we have suffered this kind of aggression together in activities to which you have been pleased to invite us, and there we have been. And, today, from this court of the Parliament of Catalonia, I want to tell you that this is not going to stay that way, that you are calm. We have asked the councillor to act; he has refused. Therefore, I already announce that we will ask for your attendance, but we will legally analyze the responsibilities that may arise, both on your part and on the part of the Rector of the Autonomous University of Barcelona. Anyone who sees the images that are being seen today at the Autonomous University of Barcelona and does not feel ashamed or is not a Democrat or is not decent or both at the same time. And I, Mr Aragonès, appeal to your decency; it is intolerable what is happening, and you know it. Well, getting into the matter(some applause), I will divide this intervention into two parts: one to speak of the strictly sanitary question and another to speak not only of economics but of other themes that were left in the inter the other day in the general policy debate, I suppose for lack of time, but also I imagine due to lack of will; Mr Pere Aragonès did not answer me. The first thing I have to say, with all sincerity, trying to be as objective as possible, is that in this five-year period, the hard mistakes on the part of the joint public administration, not only in Catalonia but in Spain, have been smaller than on other occasions. This isn't an exception. Hard mistakes have been made, some of us have also denounced them here, today even when we are talking about vaccination, but it must also be said that at this stage errors have not been so hard. Vaccination had problems, but there were also times when it worked very reasonably. That said, the one that can't be accepted and has been explained before is that it continues with the speech of the restructuring of the health system blaming the others when you have enough tools to do it. And it's going to prove with the assumption they're presenting. We'll see what distribution of fan spending. That we are talking about a very large amount of money, there they will see exactly the priorities they have. Because it is a question to which we, too, in the six points of our alternative project to Catalonia, have made special emphasis, that it is the need to strengthen the Catalan health system and to make it accept the idea that until now we all had made it clear that it had been historically solid and that we could be proud, but that after the pandemic we had seen very important shortcomings. It is not normal for Catalonia to continue to pay health expenses per person. And this will have the opportunity to prove it on the premises if they want to correct it. It is not normal for the damage that was shown to the pandemic's initiator on public-private cooperation formulas. It happened as with the subject of the army, which then asked for help, after denying, in other words, any type of collaboration with the principle. Therefore, this need to rethink the health system has to be done, as it was a while ago, without harm and with an open mindset aimed at effectiveness. The corruption problems that have occurred in the public-private health system in Catalonia, which everyone knows, have nothing to do with the model, but with the conducts of certain people. We all know where they come from and what political formation they come from, but this does not invalidate the need to look for formulas every time more effective. And, I insist, assuming that the health system is the sum of the strictly public part, but also the public part. This works for all advanced societies, it works for democracies that are managed by social democratic parties, and it is the most reasonable and what here, for some ideological visions, does not happen. Well, that's the initial reflection on sanitation. The other day you just answered me one of the six or seven questions I asked you, the issue of companies, right? And he did it to me, plus, with an argument that's kind of peculiar. But, well, I'm going to repeat the questions again because you're president of the Generalitat de Catalunya and I'd like to know what you've been looking for. Because he explains, but then they ask him questions and he never answers them. How does he value it– and if you have data that this, in any case, denies it... doesn't have it, because he never gives it – that Catalonia is a leader in delinquency in Spain? How do you appreciate Catalonia being a leader in school barracks at the conjunct of Espanya? How do you appreciate Catalonia being the leader of Spain in waiting lists in your healthcare system? And how much do you value Catalonia to be – this I already imagine as worth – leader in propitious taxes? I just explained it. Because some reason..., in other words, these data tellers..., some reason has and not only blame Madrid constantly. At the end of the day, these facts show that you are designing a small Catalonia in a Catalonian Government every time. More than that, they'll prove it. Year 2013. In Catalonia, the bank deposits of the whole of Spain were accumulated by the per cent. Today, it is fourteen. In the Community of Madrid, the year 2013 was the 20th, today is the 20th. That is to say, what is happening here is that every time more public bodies, more bureaucracy and civil society every time more scandalous. The governments of Andalusia and Madrid, what they are doing is shrinking and their civil society every time is bigger. Certainly, this is the way Catalonia has taken decades and decades to lead the Spanish economy and to be one of the best economies in Europe. And they're doing exactly the opposite of what Catalonia brought to these positive data. More concrete questions than he wouldn't answer me that day. Actually, the bottles have been done to all of Spain, but why the violent extreme violence only here? Why are fifty percent of all the illegal occupations in Spain in Catalonia? Half of everything Spanish to Catalonia. I own my opinion. It's an opinion that can be shared or not. I am convinced – and this is already more of a political value than a mathematical theorem – that the pedagogy of disobedience that has been encouraged by certain left-wing formations, but also by separatism, ends up generating a culture of disobedience that has consequences. It's a political opinion. What's wrong with you? What do you attribute that this only happens to us, to Catalonia? I suppose you'll have... And don't come to me with novels and cursileries from: "No, that... the explanation that they end up giving practically always. So, and I'm done, how do you think we can fix these data? I'm back to insisting: delinquency, school barracks, health system waiting lists, number of appropriate taxes. And don't talk to me about independence, because there's a little bit left, not to mention the infinite galaxy. Today, now, what are you going to do today? I'll give him a speech. Actually, you've said it once, when you say we're here and now. And Catalonia doesn't even have independence – in this you agree, I suppose – you won't have it – I think so, probably here you disagree, in public, maybe in private is another thing. But since this object is an authentic chimera, that we would be decades and decades circling all day, complaining about Madrid and that these data are still the same? Why don't you explain that? He's the only one who asks him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.164.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Fàbrega has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.165.0	Thank you very much, President. Very Honourable President, Honourable Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Let's begin our appearance with the condol to all those affected by this disease, both to all the people who have suffered the covid-19 and, obviously, to their families. Remember, every time we talk about this disease, we're talking about people and we're talking about families. At the end of July we had the appearance of Councillor Argimon to the Health Commission – he himself recalled – to explain, therefore, the evolution of this five-day event. Let'remember that it's the whistle on Lleida. Let's remember that the past summer was hard on Ponent as well, so remember that this year, the summer and the whole fruit campaign were much better. Therefore, mistakes can be learned and things can be done much better. And, therefore, thank everyone who made it possible, right? In this appearance, therefore, it was just the time when the fifth wave was affecting us with courage, putting on the run and actually putting on the run the social health evolution, economics of the summer. The pressure on the health system at that time, hospitable, and especially of primary care, was very high, again, at a delicate time when health professionals, therefore, had to enjoy their holiday days, right? We've done a little something already seen from that appearance, but by luck – by luck – we're already at the end of this one; so I'm going to say it all the way past, with my mouth small but we've been through the fifth one, huh? Not the pandemic. But let's remember, how did this five-year-old start, huh? It started with an increase in very important cases at the end of June and early July, initially focused on the young population. The counselor explained it very well, because it is this people that has a lot of social interaction, but above all because it was the collection that we didn't have the extended vaccination yet, in fact we were just starting their vaccination then. And this five-year-old, therefore, is precisely why, for this increase in social interaction and for the delta variant of the covid-19 virus, as you explained to us, huh? In this five-year drive to Catalonia, it reached a risk index of 1997, on the 6th of July, the highest of all the pandemic. With a cumulative incidence on the seven days of 671 per cent_1,000 inhabitants, on July 13th; with 2,299 admissions to hospitals August 1st, and with almost six hundred patients to ICUs. Specifically, the highest xifra was 598 August 8. Let 'em remember that the first wave has almost reached 1,600 patients at the last ICUs, huh? It was April 2020, and, to 731 ICU patients on this year's fever principle, that was the third time. And I also think it's important to remember that the ICU's structural beds before the pandemic began, so they were six hundred, and this was tripled thanks to the effort of the entire health system. So, I think now is a good time to thank again all the efforts of the healthcare professionals, who are giving it everything during this pandemic. I will not tire of repeating that professionals are the authentic treasurer of our health system, and that we have the challenge of giving them the recognition that they deserve and all the material and human resources to be able to do their job in the best way possible. Well, was this quinta expected? Was it avoidable? Now, afterward, it's very easy to talk about it, to think about it, to comment, but unfortunately nobody has the glass ball to see the future before taking decisions, obviously neither the Government nor the Health Department. If we moved temporarily at that time, we were all aware that the relaxation of some restrictive measures would result in an increase in contagious diseases, but we were almost all convinced that it would be an absorbable increase and that with the amount of vaccination we had at that time it would not come down to the amounts of contagious diseases, hospital admissions, or ICUs that we had at the beginning of July and at the beginning of August and that we all know what we are struggling to lower. Who says it's not like that now, lies and knows it. We would all have done the same thing, one morning or another, but we would all have relaxed the restrictive measures. It's very easy to find statements of all political colors, absolutely all of them, and even of scientists, that were calling it, huh? In fact, this statement that the same councillor has mentioned, from July middays, about fifty scientists textually say that, huh? Many of us didn't know how to anticipate this situation. We weren't expecting a full five. These statements from the hemerotheque, which we can look for and which are of all colors, or this position, I'm not saying right now to criticize or to criticize anyone, huh? It's to remember the mindset we were moving with between April and June, and the one we all hoped you'd come by. Unfortunately, the reality has been another, completely different; we have all suffered, obviously the patients, their families and the professionals the most. Lucky was the vaccination that managed to mitigate the amounts of this five-year-old. This five-year period took us to Catalonia in summer with about fifty per cent of the population with a first dose of vaccine administered and thirty-two per cent of the population with a full schedule. I've looked at the figures, they're concretely from Sant Joan's day. Thought so, huh? We all thought it would be enough with these figures, but the varied delta has shown us that it is not. And it has been vital that during this period these figures have been increasing, little by little, throughout the summer. This has been key to overcoming this issue. Giving thanks again to the health professionals, especially the primary care, who, with their efforts, have achieved these figures and thanks to everyone that for their responsibility and for their solidarity and responsibility, both individually and collectively, they wanted to vaccinate. Now the situation has changed in a very important way. One time we've overtaken the summer we've managed to reverse this five-year-old thanks to everyone's effort with restrictive measures that have affected the entire catering sector, at length, and above all – the night-night sector. It is true that measures have not been as restrictive as at other times, but they have been especially hard for the night, an important sector for our economy and of which many and many families live. We have remembered the figures several times, the President reminded us, the President reminded us, the Councillor. Today we have a risk index of sixty-three, a cumulative incidence of thirty-one positives. This is less than five percent of what we had at the beginning of July. Today we already have fewer than four hundred patients admitted to hospitals, 395, and 100_disset to ICUs. A lot of people to all of them. And, very important: we have a 74.6_percent of the population with the first dose of vaccine and an almost seventy-three with a full schedule. This is almost six million people with the pattern started and practically five, more than five with the pattern completed. Actually, if we look over 12 years, which is the population that's vaccine, so, these figures are over 80, huh? , the eighty-four and the eighty-two-per-cent. Therefore, with this situation we are satisfied that this sale is open with a certain normality to the sector of the night octurn. It was said that it would open when we're down, that we'd plant when we're down a hundred patients in ICUs, with a hundred times that we're down today. So, we think it's a good time with these vaccination amounts. And we are very pleased that it is done with the passport covid, a measure of security that allows us to reduce the risk of contagion. Obviously, not minimality, not bringing it to zero, but it does diminish very much in ensuring that assistants are properly vaccinated or have negative diagnostic tests. This use of the covid passport, is widespread throughout Europe, we are sure that it will allow Catalonia to recover a little more normality, while preserving our health system because it is possible to dedicate to the rest of the maladies, that they exist and that we all know that we are not dedicating to them the attention they deserve, with an underdiagnosis that we all know and are aware that we cannot extend further. In this sense, also the measure of recovering the presence to the primary attention, connected with this measure that every city with an administrative assistant of reference, I think for us this is very important. In the same way that we all have a professional of nursing, medicine, pediatrics, if that is the case, of reference, therefore, that there is an administrative assistant of reference, we are sure that it will improve the attention that is given to primary care. We have always advocated that our health care system should reduce bureaucracy and paperwork and that every professional profile should do what it can best do. I am sure that this administrative referent will, as a matter of fact, improve the work of all health professionals. We are also satisfied with the constitution of this independent scientific committee, which we hope will help us find the answers and guide us with the decisions that will need to be made. Choices. It is a case of success for the schools, but it is important to reduce the restrictions now with the only part of the population that we do not have vaccinated. So let's go with it. Let's macabar, counselor, carry a pair of negits that we have in front of this late and winter. We don't know how the flu or the rest of the respiratory virus will affect us, like the syncitial respiratory virus, that every winter affects infants and many times puts our pediatric ICUs at the limit. And, in this sense, we would certainly like to know how the influenza vaccination is planted, which will be able to simultaneously with the covid vaccination, with this third dose from the people of seventy, sixty-five years, we will see. And as is the management, both in primary and hospital, of the influenza epidemic and the rest of the respiratory virus. And one second denied – we talked about it, huh? – reinforcement of primary care, important reinforcement in mental health – the president also mentioned this. All this depends on the presupposition and, of course, the presupposition that is destined for Salvation. I can't deny that we personally care that, under current circumstances, we have enough; obviously the Covid funds of the State would help us. Therefore, with the hope that it will be so and that we can face the covid and the postcovid with the best circumstances and with the greatest possible assumption. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.166.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, Mr. Juli Fernàndez has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.167.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillor, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, allow me to start with a grace, with a grace to all those people who strive, to all those people who dedicate much more than I would dedicate in this exceptional situation, to health professionals, to emergency personnel, also to public managers and to political leaders. And let me also start with a record for all those families who have lost someone they love – family or friend – and also for all those who in one way or another are still living the impact of this pandemic, which is still alive. Also a recognizance of complicated, difficult decisions, but that the government has pressed at every moment. This quinta onada – before I, everyone has remembered what the context was – in many cases, in most cases, not to mention everyone, we had the will and the feeling that it would not be an explosive wave again. Counselor Argimon explained it to us before. But the reality, the changing situation of this virus, the introduction of a new variant, the delta variant, and the recovery of social activity combined with population groups without vaccine coverage at that time made this will, to what we all hoped, not passed. Before that, before this situation that at first what it does is brutally impact primary care, that we had it absolutely dedicated to vaccination. And here I think it's important to recognize, in addition to the professionals, all those people – political leaders, public directives – who made it possible to keep logistics ready, because all of us were tops in two months, from June 13th to August 13th, to inoculate 4_millions_i_mig of cows; in two_months, 4_millions_i_mig of cows. Therefore, a collective success, a system success and a success of all people who have been willing to be co-responsible with their fellow citizens and, therefore, protect them from vaccination exercises. Therefore, in this context, in a context where the acceleration of vaccination was parallel to the acceleration of the transmission of the virus, it was necessary to take measures that, as always, as experience has explained to us, they are always painful, they are always complicated, but those who are effective know that they are the barrier, that they can be mask and distance, we know that they are hygiene, we know that it is ventilation and we know that it is the reduction of interaction, the reduction of activity, because without people it has not been transmitted. Therefore, without interaction it is much more difficult for this circulation to continue. In the situation where we find ourselves today, we also want to reiterate and emphasize that the pandemic is not over. The pandemic continues and will continue, and I would like to put a more vision beyond Catalonia, beyond Europe. We are certainly privileged societies and a minority in the world that can access the vaccine in a majority, but pandemics, as the President pointed out, are global and, or are part of the global solution, or the pandemic will be very difficult to eradicate. We may be able to live there, we may be used to living in a different way than we were before, but until we continue to fight it globally – and that means bringing the whole world into the realm of vaccination, which is what we know to be working today – or what we must limit ourselves to is its control. So, what is our goal as Republicans and Republicans? Our goal is to work together globally from our local participation to help end this pandemic and, at the same time, to control it at some levels in our environment so that we can live with a certain normality, which, as Counsellor Argimon reminded us, and as on some occasions I have been able to share in the field of the Health Commission, is a normality that is not real, it is a normality that we live basically thanks to the sacrifices and efforts of the health system. The health system was the first to enter exceptionality, and the health system will be the last to exit it. And this is one of the great reasons for which public resources are needed..., to address all these points – we could tell all these consensuses – that, somehow or otherwise, during all our interventions, have gone out. How do we strengthen primary care? , which at the time of the fifth onada took on vaccination and detection. And this door to the limit and makes us have new strategies, such as the incorporation of pharmacy offices, testing. We expand, capillaryly open the ability to access it, and we do so from nine ways, from new profiles that participate in the system and that help the primary have dedicated to other tasks that they can only do. Therefore, new strategies in us will be staged, in a scene where we are around, or above, the eighty-and-a-half percent of the vaccination, if we count the vaccine population, is to say, all those more than twelve years old. In this context, we must be able to pass from that massive vaccination success, to the people who were chasing the vaccine, to that vaccination, which we are already starting to do by segments, to the vaccine – let me say this – to the people who are chasing the people. And we have a few challenges to go deeper there, where we have the ability to move forward, which is mainly the strip of twenty-four years old, and especially, as the president said, with an important bias in men, that are five points under the middle of the women of this strip. And this town, I think it's a mistake if we fall for criminalizing it. They have objective reasons that, from the question made by the Health Department, we can know. Many believe they are invulnerable; others have side effects, don't they? Allow me to share with you a conversation around what effects it has on the fertility of people of twenty-i-llangs, thirty, especially women. And, therefore, we must fight with science, with explanation, with segmented channels, to get to know each other. It's not over. We have to convince and we have to innovate, guaranteeing rights. For us, the one who explained the president, use at a time like the present the covid certificate as a tool, now that the cows are available to the whole population – now, it doesn't make six; now, that the cows are available to everyone–, it's an incentive tool, it's a tool to get all of us more protected, always respecting the rights and ensuring data security. I'm done. I repeat: the pandemic has not ended, and it will not end until there is a global solution in which the Republicans and they want to be part. Many thanks, President; many thanks, advisers, advisers, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.168.0	Then, one time, all the representatives of the parliamentary groups have intervened, has the words of Councillor Argimon, the Councillor of Salut, to make the turn of the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.169.0	President, President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, I shall endeavour to answer most of the questions raised, the suggestions made or the criticisms made. And, also, let me take advantage of it to please you, build it from all the debate. I was talking about Congressman Illa of different considerations and theses, which I share. There's some information I can move. For example, the third dose, at these times, or additional doses that we are at these times administering to the most immunocompromised people, or that they are already large people living in residences, which, therefore, their immune system is no longer responsible in the same way..., we have at these times sixty-thousand people vaccinated with this additional dose of a day-to-day population of eighty-thousand. The other important element in vaccination is that we start vaccination from October 25th. We will begin vaccination, influenza vaccination, as more or less every year– more or less every year is to mid-October–, we will start at the end of October, so that we will simultaneous influenza with a group of people older than seventy years, that we will also administer a third dose– in this case it is a third dose – of the vaccine against the covid. It is seventy years, and basically because the first evidence that there is that the level of ancients, therefore, begins to fall is from the six months, and it would be at this time, at the end of October, when people of seventy or more years, therefore, would have gotten this second dose of vaccine six months before. You've also made reference to everything that Hipra does, that the government is still very supportive, because, even if the vaccine project went well – or not, we all hope so – but even though it didn't go well, man, it's very important the jump that this Girona company makes, a leading company in the world of vaccination, certainly animal, but the change, the step to the world of human salvation is very important. And it is also from the point of view that it is a company that develops, produces and above all is very accustomed to regulation. That is to say, the development of a vaccine has an obvious complexity: it can be done from a public laboratory, it can be done through a university, which is, for example, the one that passed to Oxford, but then you have to go and look for all the possible alliances for production, which is a whole world, and regulation, regulation with EMA, which is a whole world. Regulation in the animal world and in the human world has small differences, but it has many similarities. So, it's news that we're following with a lot of interest and we're waiting for everyone to go well. The prudent opening. I think we're trying to make this opening prudent, little by little, not by now, but we're starting from the month of April, so with this opening little by little. And that from this point of view, the next week we'll open a hundred percent presence at universities. I think that they also owe it, they owe it to our young man, because he was young that he may have suffered, whether first or second, so he suffered some restriction during the fight and if he is second, he suffered during the first year of his career. Therefore, one hundred_per_cent. And we'll start increasing outages with a deu_per_cent. And let's wait, if all the data stays the same and we follow more or less with the same rhythm, so we can already open a hundred_per_cent off in two weeks. Digital certificate. We plant the very temporary digital certificate, as the Supreme marks it. Temporally, and with the least possible temporality, so that if we open the night and give them the data they keep going well– I don't put them on a deadline now, because you'll remember me later, but sooner than later–, what we have to leave is that..., we remove this digital covid certificate, and, just as we today in all those activities that we don't need a digital covid certificate, we don't want it to be used – unless, yes, we find ourselves with an increase in incidence and before we go back, we believe that the digital covid certificate can help us. But if not, it will now be restricted to the night octopus. And we've explained why, they understand that and, more importantly, with the least possible temporal impact. Assessing to learn and improve, I think that's what we all have in mind. I think that there is a commission..., I don't think: there is a commission at the level of the State that will do this, and that the same minister, when we talked about this subject, she said, is to say: "Secute, that is not to look back, but to look forward. And I gave him another thing, I said to him, "Minister, when a commission comes up, right? From outsiders, the first thing you will do will be ask for the data. And he reminded him – and that was also what he was talking about, if the members who were in the Health Committee remember that: "Look, the data are all open, that is, that if additional information is needed, an in-depth interview, etc., is required, but – and that's what he said to the Health Committee – the data on infection is day by day, the data on care are there. If we want to compare autonomous communities, we go to Charles III; if we want to compare with the world, we don't go to Oxford University, to Our World in Data, right? From this point of view, and if we want, very important, what decisions the Government of Catalonia has, we have all the resolutions, which have been made a lot, almost a week from the beginning. It's not a record, but it's something more than a record. Home, it's something more than a record, in the sense... - Excuse me, huh? , if at times asked – in the sense that it is published in the DOGC. We're telling you what we're gonna do and what we're gonna stop doing and it's going to be published at the DOGC. Therefore, we have evaluation material. And from this point of view, evaluate to learn and improve. There was also an example here that I think is very important: for example, the whole harvest of the fruit to Lleida, which was a problem for us. Surely, that's why, because we were facing each other for the first time. I'm talking about last year, huh? So this year it hasn't been. It's been the same year... I already know that it's not the same as the fruit harvest as the verem, huh? As for the number of people, it's not the same, I know, but the year passed the same verem and other collections of fruit, citrus, for example, etcetera, to the lands of the Jew, they went much better. What do I mean by that? That from this point of view it is important to evaluate and learn, and evaluate and learn and correct. And that's what we're all about. She was talking, Congresswoman Reguant, about the hidden wave. We are clearly – clearly – aware of this, our priorities, the priorities of the Government and of the Government of which the Department of Health is itself, the first of all is mental salvation. And here are different actions that we have begun to set in motion. We will not pose, but we have begun to pose in march. The first of all is the suicide prevention plan, which I also take advantage of to comment that the phone is 061, yes, but it does not work 061. That's an important point. Sometimes, when we talk about 061, we see a part that's very important, that's the front, the first, that's the teleoperation, right? We can enter for a theme of salvation or emergencies, from emergence to salvation or for any other, we can enter for 1,1,2, 112, or we can enter for 061. And if we go in for 112, it's back to 061. But that's the teleoperation. Now, we internally have everything that's consulting, that they do professionally for the infirmary and the medicine they're close to. It's a good service. We have all the oncology consulting, which is done by the Català Institute of Oncology, which is close. We're doing the whole pediatric consulting service, which is done by the pediatric centers of the network, which is close. We do everything that refers to the table of reviews, which is our own. And now what we're doing here on this phone, and on this suicide prevention plan, is that they're professionals in the network doing all the active listening, that's, that's, that's a step. And we got back last year... - I was surprised, huh? – Five thousand tricks at 061, who were to attend to professional nursing and medical services. And that, therefore, is not a service that is not used; the same 061 is used, because it is a well-known number. But this demand for professional entomin, in this case, so trained for this, that they are in the centers, therefore, is not the professional of 061. This is a very important element that, in some ways, also allows us to mobilize resources immediately, like any professional in the network and in the same SEM 061, which, at times, and this is also another very important point, can be consulted under the consent, obviously, of the person who tricks, the clinical history, because it has access to the clinical history and that, therefore, it can also note, and if this person has to be given a preferred visit, it can be known what has happened and what has ceased to happen. And that, obviously, you are coordinated with all the initiatives we have in the territory. We the Telèfon de l'Esperanza will continue to reinforce it, the telephone of Barcelona, which is an initiative that on the day of the presentation I said was a very, very, very good initiative, we will not go to compete, on the contrary, to collaborate in the cent_per_cent. They do, in fact, when they already have a problem, with 061 they do. Therefore, I believe that here it is to add, because from the point of view of suicide prevention it is to add, to speak, to speak to it, to speak. And from this point of view, I don't think we're gonna have a problem. The second initiative, which we will present after the sales department, is the incorporation of one hundred and fifty people, one hundred and fifty psychologists, who are not clinical psychologists, I must say very clearly, so that we do not go to clinical psychology. We're not going to do clinic, we're going to do prevention, we're going to see all the emotional discomfort that can be in all the heads of society, in all the age groups, young people too, but obviously also the great people, the loneliness, etcetera. And it's community work, it's a reinforcement for the infirmary, which is our pillar of community work. It's a clear infirmary reinforcement. And these hundred and fifty are in those primary care teams, so they have a higher socio-economic deprivation index, that is, in those most socially and economically depressed areas. Let's start this week with thirty, finish this quarter with one hundred and fifty. And if it's all right, the evaluation's all right, and so on, we'll pass, the two-cents that we'll have, one per team the next year. From this point of view, and very important – and very important – is that they are inserted into the primary care teams, contracted for the primary care teams. It's not a network reinforcement, this one's already got it. What we have to do is that this mental health communication with primary attention is more fluid, and strengthen it as well. But this Community work is very important. And they won't be the only professionals to work there. We were also talking about economic, social reactivation – Mrs Reguant was talking about it – I have always said this here, that is to say, this binomi is complicated and not counterposed: without salvation it is difficult for there to be economy and without economy it is difficult for there to be salvation. And I think that here, when we get together from the government, we value and value very – very –, precisely, balance all these aspects, because there is also a whole social pressure, like it or not like it, so, because the effects of the blanket are making stars. And that's why I feel the expression too sometimes, don't we? And that I think is important. And if we've ever done this, criminalizing, I apologize, but I don't think we've ever tried criminalizing young people. May – May – neither now nor earlier. I apologize. And, obviously, not criminalizing, so, the night oci. As they did before the restoration, because the previous moment of pandemic was also different and the way to socialize us and the people who were most exposed to suffering from the disease we socialized, let's make it clear, therefore, more making a coffee and restoration than not at night, which we had closed, and some, by the way, we go less, right? That's it. But it's not a crime issue; it's a matter of going and trying to explain with just how little you know who the sources of infection are. He also spoke of the determinants of salvation, and we fully agree on that. Absolutely okay. I mean, if you don't attack the determinants of salvation... we can talk about inequalities in salvation; we need to talk about social and economic inequalities that impact on salvation, but we need to talk about social and economic inequalities. And, therefore, either we attack the determinants – or we attack the determinants – or we will hardly improve this impact on salvation. And, in this, we will always find ourselves – always – and in the way to redistribute surely also. In the way in, I don't know anymore, but in the way I'm sure to redistribute. I, concretely, remember – remember – that I have always said that we, Hi, eh? I'm talking about Salut, it's clearly a redistributor of income. I know. It's education, too, huh? We're not the only ones. But we're redistributors of income. Therefore, a strengthened health system is redistributor of income. And we're in a situation that's critical now, critical, I'm also saying, I'm talking like the health care system, to continue this function of redistributing income. I'm talking about infrastructure, we've got them, there's a lot of them. We hope that React and..., two programs of..., can help us. But we certainly have them. Why do we wear twelve years that if the health system is affected, as well as Interior, maybe I'm put where I don't touch, but whenever there is infrastructure, what has happened in times of economic difficulties? So we've affected staffing and we've affected infrastructure. So clear – so clear. So, in conscious soc. Third element of..., or according to element of what ours will be, say, full route: it is the reinforcement of primary care. And here we have talked about the clinical manager or the person who can help us, several groups have said so. It can help, precisely, to do what we have often talked about at UBA 3. Those who follow the world of salvation more or less..., the UBA is the basic unit, that there is no basic infirmary and medicine, but many professionals are asking for this incorporation into the team and this UBA of the person, therefore, administrative. And also many other elements, therefore, that will affect infrastructure, technology, etc. The third important element is to recover the Public Health Agency, but to recover it effectively. And here we will raise, in the law of measures, an element of recovering the legal personality of the agency itself, that is to say that it is an agency of truth; starting here and then following recourse, and that I ceased to be the windbreaker – that I ceased to be the windbreaker–, that it is one of the elements that we have seen and has become pale during this pandemic. Fourth element, speaking of this hidden onada: the recovery plan. And so was Mr. Cid, huh? – I think I answered, more or less. The issue of how to recover part of the diagnosis and part of the treatment. We're already starting to do this, but there's a lot to go on, because there's been a year and a half since the coward was sick. We've all gone to the cove, all of us, all of our efforts, and all the staff to the cove. And we're waiting for her to start being, and now she's starting to be... – there's also been some intermig, April, May, etcetera, haven't we? – that I began to be a disease. We will have a coven, but we hope that it will not be the disease and that therefore you will not monopolize all the efforts of the Health Department. And, therefore, here, therefore, we will do as we always do; we will do it with complementary days, we will obviously do it by increasing our capacity. Some, very complicated. I don't know who he was talking to... it seems like he was with Deputy Juli Fernández, right? Clearly, we resonates for the night, and, well, I don't know if I open up an intimacy, but he says to me: "Listen, they're going to make me one at three in the morning. Yeah, we'll make them for the night. Oh, come on, we've got the machine on top of it. If we're going to talk about ultrasounds, we're not going to do it for the night, are we? But I want to tell you that this... And, therefore, we will put you to work as much as possible, but we also need resources for that. Covid persists. Certainly, here's an element, and now I'm talking... the youngest people have the perception that it's actually the most milder disease. Certainly, some end up getting sick hard, ending up in the ICU, unfortunately, but there is a percentage – and here the percentages, well, always whale, right? Because I don't think we'll know that until a while ago, but it's around between the eighth and the deu_per_cent – with persistent covid. And it would seem – I say it on parole, huh? – that even the youngest people can be more likely to remain than the older people. So, it's not that ordinary when you're young that you think: "Listen to me, I'll have a cold and it's already there. No, there may be this covid affect. Twenty-five_per_cent. Jo, when I compared the month of July, the presupposition of the year 20 was closed, huh? It's already published, published for the Catalan Health Service, published and stuffed, huh? Twelve_per_cent, primary attention. Therefore, the recurrence is brutal – brutal. Okay? But it's a doze_per_cent. In conscious shock. Any 20, huh? By the 21st, I don't know; but, well, it won't get much better, will it? Leave him here, okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? It won't get much better – it won't get much better. Presentiality. We agree. And I think that's what the director of the Català Health Service wanted to say, that teams are taking this presence every time. It's also true that you had to take a step back at the time of the covid, and now you have to start taking the step forward. We don't have to lose some things that we've won with the covid, clearly, that we've won them, medicine, etc., but..., and not exactly back to the 19th, but obviously, we have to win in face-to-face, we're all pretty clear, huh? Choices. I'm sure that's the first place we're going to relax, okay? , beyond what I said before, but now also with care, because we winter up, and we closed schools first, because we believe that – « we speak to Europe, eh? , no, it's not a... – the contagious mechanism was exactly the same as that of the flu. In fact, remember that at the beginning there was even that discrepancy of whether the aerosols, or not, huh? I'm talking two now, three months after you started the pandemic. And we all believed or thought it was a very flu-like mechanism. And, therefore, the grip..., here the children, boys and girls..., the school is a spreader. And the grip... we have to try to make it a year as peaceful as possible. I also have to tell you... I have to tell you, excuse me, from a point of view of the affect of your own health care system. They're talking, too, and I think I'm done, third-dose, or I'm done with the vaccine. Two things; two things, huh? I mean, if they ask me personally the third dose– personally, huh? – I have expressed it, I think we must try to ensure that vaccination is global. And that's not a topic... that's to say, the richest countries go for the third dose. But this is a personal issue, which is more... now, the third one we're going to do... we're going to do it to finish the vaccination and go looking for all this opportunistic vaccination. It's true now that the image is being given... or we're giving the image, because it's true, because it was already programmed, huh? , that we are removing the big vaccination centers. I'm also withdrawing because we don't have a lot of people anymore, but that doesn't mean the smallest detail, the fis, that I've mentioned before, not the beginning to go back months. I've made the example of busts, but I could put a lot of them, examples, basically all around basic areas, primary care teams, with the support of the local world. And here I don't see the mayor of Cardona, but when I was in Cardona, well, it was one of the examples of multiple... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is it? [[Pause.]] Oh, no. He forgave – he forgave. But, well, he did one of the performances of this guy. And if you allow me, and it's for the deputy Alejandro Fernández, and it's not with any controversy, deputy, it's not with any controversy, but about the police vaccinations I don't want to explain now everything we've already explained, but this September we got an invitation from the chief of police in Catalonia addressed to the director general, Mr. Francesc Xavier Rodríguez Guasch, who is the director general of Serveis, who is the one doing the whole part, say, of logistics, with all the groups, huh? , with all the essential groups, okay? , with all the essential groups, from pharmaceuticals, also to the police, who said to him : "Dear sir, on the occasion of the celebration of the institutional act of Police Day 2021, this Chief of Police wishes to distinguish him with a commemorative plaque in recognition of his outstanding collaboration with the National Police. This distinction will be given to you in the course of that act, which will take place on 27 September at twelve hours in the Auditori de Barcelona, carrer Lepant, such, such... ; « receive my congratulations and personal recognition for the deserved distinction. And the distinction is a plaque that speaks of the superior headship, the name of the person..., "in recognition of his collaboration with this headship in the management of the covid-19 health crisis. I say that because who makes a lawsuit are two unions – very legitimately, I don't say no – and what we're complaining about is that this is politics. But, listen, look, the relationship is cordial; or, come on, it's cordial, isn't it? He's not going there anymore. Okay? I mean, it's from this perspective that an issue that's logistically very complicated gets rude from this point of view; certainly, when we started vaccination, huh? When the vaccination was already under way. Nothing more than that. And I'll stay at your disposal, out of here, when you're around. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.170.0	Thank you, Counselor. The representatives of parliamentary groups can then exercise their right to reply, for five minutes per parliamentary group. In the first place, the deputy Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.171.0	Thank you, Madam President. You've already been busy if you've been looking, picking up, you plate, Mr. Argimon, huh? We've fixed everything. Listen to me, two considerations..., forgive me, three, three considerations – already in confusion and everything – two evaluations or reflections and a warning, very quickly, eh? All three considerations. First of all, thank him for the information he's given. We note that the influenza vaccination campaign will start on October 25; it seems to me a good idea, or it seems to us a good idea, which is combined with the administration of the third dose in certain collections. So, thank you for what you've explained to us. Two. Much relieving the reinforcement of the field of public salvation, both in Catalonia and in Spain. Let us say to ourselves, it would be unforgivable, after this pandemic, that the professionals of public salvation continue to rely on the scarce resources that they have counted on these past times. Admittedly, continue with your sincerity; I thank you very much, truly, for the transparency and sincerity with which you give the explanations, and I would like to have this tone characteristic of you not lost, right? So, thank you also for..., in short, strengthening public greetings. The third thought he wanted to do it. Well, the balance between fighting the pandemic and opening up the economy, therefore, is a very difficult balance. And it's very easy to comment two months later, a few days later; it's harder to do it before. So, here's prudence. And once more you know that you have my group, or our group, at your disposal to help and collaborate in whatever we can. Two more thoughts. One may be surprised, though, to listen to me, I now, to hear some interventions and recognize that there is a lot of way to go to improve things, a lot of way to go..., to listen to me, in comparative terms, it hasn't gone so bad, huh? It has not gone so badly; it has not gone so badly to Catalonia, Spain or Europe. And so too..., in short, it is that, if not, we always go into the spiral... – there are enough things that need to be improved – we are in the spiral that everything goes wrong – that everything goes wrong. Count, hearing some interventions, if we compare ourselves to other countries that are very advanced, this has not gone so badly. And the second thought I want to do I think it's a lesson, isn't it? , one of the lessons of this pandemic: we had a good time together, with Europe, with Spain, and in Catalonia, right? We had a good time together. And someone was talking about providing rights, right? All this has been... all the fighting against the pandemic can be seen as fighting to provide one of the most important rights, which is the right to salvation, isn't it? And together we have gone well, together; vaccination is a success together – together – of Europe, of Spain and of Catalonia, right? The last comment, a warning or an advance position. I'm talking about covid, but I'm just talking about when they're gonna complain. Mr. Torrent didn't talk about it when he said he was giving help to help them come along. I'd ask for a point of honesty here, wouldn't I? Indeed, 30,000_million euros worth of lost funds has donated the Government of Spain – and it was its obligation; I do not say as it deserved, it was its obligation– 30,000_million euros worth of lost funds – year 2020, 16,000; year 2021, 14,000 – to the group of autonomous communities. Catalonia has rejected more than €5,000_million. It will not be an excuse, at least for my group, that there is no or is not possible to renew the covid funds so as not to provide the resources suitable for sanitation. There is a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot of money, a lot And to rule is to prioritize. And at this point the priority is salvation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.172.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group... ( Pause. ) I don't know what congressman is going to say, Mr. Garriga? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.173.0	It will be the deputy María García Fuster.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.174.0	Okay. So the word has the deputy María Elisa García Fuster.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.175.0	Thank you, Madam President. The truth, Mr Aragonès, Mr Argimon, we have been talking about the covid since the beginning of the legislature and the truth is that we have made no progress. Undiscriminate closure without any epidemiological basis according to the graphics that you yourselves provide and provide from the Generalitat. Of course, that's not what anyone here looks at, is it, Mr. Argimon? We do. Here you will not be pressured to ask why you have ruined thousands of Catalans when both you and Mrs Vergés knew that we were late in the first wave, late in the second, in the third, in the fourth and in the fifth wave. We've been late on all the waves. The lack of forecast from the first moment, honor of Mrs Vergés, who left the toilets unprotected being the second most infected in all of Spain, with more than twelve_ thousand, as my colleague has said. Did you know that while the ICS and the Siscat had neither masks nor PPE, the Hospitaller Order of St. John of God became an importing center, it chartered an airplane that filled with material to protect its health care providers? The Hospital Order of St. John of God, yes. The Government of Catalonia, no. He couldn't do it. Of course, that's understandable when we all know what you were doing during the first wave, right, sir? Yeah, laugh; laugh, laugh. I don't think toilets have been so much fun. Well, look, during the first wave, passing a law to raise 0.9_per_cent to the former presidents of the government, in those you were while Saint John of God was buying material for his companions, huh? [[Some applause.]] We're not going to talk about Mr. Illa anymore, because the management of the state has already been like... Come on, it would take ten more minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mental health, Mr. Aragonès. Do you know how many suicides I personally attended to last year in the pandemic in an emergency box because you have ruined your economic health? Do you know how many? Don't think about how they protect the toilets, don't think about it. Because we already see what the toilets care about you. What matters to you is your client network, like Mrs Vergés's sister-in-law. By the way, the one responsible for all this disaster, one of those responsible for all this disaster in the last year and a half. And, of course, in your rupturist agenda – don't forget us. You don't care about toilets, but you don't care about Catalans either. We have seen how they have ruined people while at the beginning of the legislature they were engaged in armoring positions from their high offices. How many were Lords of Junts, eighty, eighty, and five before the start of the legislature? Anyway, as long as all this... While you were shielding high offices, one_of_each_three children in Catalonia was at risk of extreme poverty. Mr Argimon, I have told you in committee and I repeat it now: invest in treatment. The vaccine is fine, but invest in treatment. In people who are researching both here, in Catalonia, and outside Catalonia. Instead of spending those billions and billions on TV3, buy EXO-CD24. This Israeli drug that has demonstrated a 93_per_cent effectiveness in serious and very serious covid and that is in phase three and will move to phase four by mid-year. Massive testing, screening to identify and isolate positives. And, above all, do not violate individual freedom or the data protection law. Don't criminalize people who don't get vaccinated, because if they don't get vaccinated, it's for something; maybe it's for something. And if it gets vaccinated, it's also for something. People are not criminalized, we have freedom of choice. And, please, issue passport covid. You know we'll turn to him. Focus directly on a person's privacy. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.176.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity-A New Cycle to Win, Ms. Eulàlia Reguant has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.177.0	Well, thank you, counselor. He hasn't answered or he's answered what he wanted. It's legitimate and it was on his right, but he answered a part, which he was interested in answering; which he didn't, it was obvious. I'm asking you, 061. What are we gonna do with 061? Because he only posed or spoke on one side of the staff of 061, of his own, because you separate what he is... or consider that one side is added value and the other, no. As if the teleoperators' share were not served by health services. Because it's indispensable, it's an essential service. And therefore, we ask, do you intend to internalize the service of 061, yes or no? It's a simple question. They have the opportunity to do so now. If they don't do it now, then let's see, shall we? Which are the next steps and how, most likely, Ferrovial stays with me again, when... no? You know how it works. And I'll tell you again, there are some workers who yesterday reported that they were starting a job, that they wanted... some workers who are from Ferrovial but who work at 061. The Health Department has a lot to say, because the more they are outsourced it is their responsibility that the service works, is managed correctly, that the working conditions of the workers are respected, that it is better... Therefore, we ask you that in the march of this vagueness you also get involved in the solution, as happens in other telephonic emergence services, which are also the workers in vagueness. The other problem, with primary attention. We share that I can strengthen it. In this I think the whole hemicle agrees: I want to reinforce the primary attention. The question is: how do we do it and what are the messages that are being sent, and the messages launched this week, you have seen it, or you may have seen it perfectly from the department, the professionals of primary care felt attacked, felt questioned, felt that it was a question of the work that carries two months to the end. Because saying that it's called for CAPs to open again, it's like saying that CAPs haven't been opened, and that's not true. To say that from now on... I repeat it, that from now on it may or will have to explain the reason for the visit is as if not now, and that's already happening. It's true: there was difficulty in some primary care centers to get a date, but it's not the norm. Therefore, we also value the work that these workers have done all this time, and, in fact, before the pandemic, because the primary care was already undervalued and underdeveloped for a long time, and this was the problem that has been acute in the pandemic and has been acute and has been found to be an absolutely hospitable health system, which, although the mouth of primary care has always been closed, has never put it in value or put it in the centre, has never given it up because it is actually the gateway to the health system. And in this sense, before some group said it: we take longitudinality into account. Without this, we end up generating a health system..., or go on, of consumption; it is to say, the patient consumes, instead of generating a link between patient and health system that, therefore, really takes into account all elements of health. It's like, without bonds, we untie all that sanitation is, and get the patient to just consume resources. And, therefore, this causes overmedication, right? And the overreaction, and what we want to address is, right? , with all its complexity the problems of salvation. That's why I'm going to ask him again, and I'm going to finish this: 061, please answer. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.178.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.179.0	Well, thank you, counselor. I have to say it's always a pleasure to argue with you because you have more waist than Messi, right? Mr. Illa said he gave a lot of information and I think he answers what he wants and what he doesn't want to see that he hasn't heard, and I'll try to ask him again, won't I? Yes, I would like to make a point, that I think it's good that fem, did also Mr. Illa: I think it's worth putting in value the covid funds, because Mr. Illa said that it's true, that I think it is, it was an obligation of the State, wasn't it? , which are non-conditional and lost, but it hasn't always happened; in fact, I'd say it never happened. I also say this because when – it's not today – Mr. Batet says that Mr. Yolanda Díaz is the same practically as Mr. Married, so maybe he's also fine as long as we remember that he's not so, and Mr. Sanchez probably isn't like Mr. Married either. I want to do six points. The first one, in vaccination. We are concerned about you, surely you have more details, but we, our group, are more concerned than the third dose, we are concerned about the level of inequality. Or is it, to me..., the one that worries us, because this does have a real impact on access to salvation and, therefore, the differences that exist, that I don't..., I don't know, I don't think that I think it's just as much a point of denial as it is, too, I think that there's inequality of income and inequality until I say legal status, huh? And so, well, if really, we do, and I think so, don't I? We are all citizens and citizens with full rights, we need to work because obviously these barrels and those people who have lower levels of income have access to the vaccine. The second place..., indeed here I appreciate the element of sincerity, but also the element of concern; it is to say, that the percentage of assumption devoted to primary care is only the dotze_per_cent, and tells us that 2021 will not improve. No, I'm saying that because they repeated it in a way... I'd say to the satiety, this mantra that we'll get to twenty-five percent. Well, also, in any case, you've been ruling for a while, I understand one more little bit, right? , we could engage this twelve_per_cent. Well, if you tell us how we're gonna try to help with the assumptions. And, in fact, I also ask you – I think I have asked this question several times – that is to say, the consultants, who have more than one element, the medical consultants, who have a fundamental element of access to salvation, don't they? In relatively small municipalities, will they re-open or not actually re-open as we had them before the pandemic situation? And then, we're also worried that the information... went to Sant Joan Despí, passed to Maresme, too, from the concentration of certain specialties. For example, certain CAPs that either lose the gynecology service, because they focus on the heads of municipalities, or also for example pediatrics. I was Dosrius, I was able to see it, to prove directly, that it is transferred to Argentona or other municipalities of Maresme. And that worries and worries a lot because these servants, it's not like they're saying, "No, we're short of resources, but that was before the pandemic. Follow him, it's not like... When it comes to the financing problems of Catalan sanitation, and I agree, we are defending a new financing system, but we already have this before and now we are not doing it, are we? Public Health Agency. We're in full agreement, but here's another time, aren't we? I mean, the theme is, like at least, a four-per-cent presupposition in this..., isn't it? They tell us all the experts that we need to get there or at least have more resources, I don't put it anymore... We agree with what you put forward, that I think I made an announcement of the accompanying law, that you wanted to provide it with this legal strength, but we also have to give it a presupposition. And, finally, I end up with two more fears. Choosing. You see, we have the feeling that with the restrictions that we have to apply for the covid, between comets" they have found the taste, and we make them serve to manage or solve other things. I'm just saying, we've been through this, too, for example, with the curfew, right? That's to say, the curfew to reverse contagion is fine, but to manage items that they have to see with public order, so maybe not so much, right? Because in the end, well, the bottles already existed before and we didn't have the curfew. And, of course, now tell us that the schools go a little further because the grip isn't managed, okay, but the grip is already there. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, the mask, but anyway, there are other things, right? That's what I'm saying. So, well, let's start working on the one they claim, that couples can access the center, right? , things he planted. And finally, with 061, I also believe that there is an element of visibility, that is to say, that Catalonia has a suitable phone, because it is not only those people who have suicidal thoughts, but also family, friends, I believe that also that..., the advantage of the Barcelona case is that there is one element that uniquely places suicide as a priority in the city of Barcelona, that we also..., and I believe that you share, that it is also a priority of the country and, therefore, in any case, we see which is the evolution of what is on earth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.180.0	Thank you, Mr. Cid. And, then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Fàbrega. [[Matías Alonso Ruiz intervenes without using the microphone.]] Yes, I've been informed that they won't intervene from Ciutadans, is that correct? Mr. Matías Alonso. It is that I have been informed by both the Joint Group and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans that they will not intervene. Therefore, has the word Lord Jordi Fàbrega, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.181.0	Thank you, President. I'll be very brief. Cavid vaccination, influenza vaccination, we try to get to the ninety percent, cavid passport, TARs to the pharmacies, which has been so well this summer in the city, we take all the tools we have in our hands. We're talking to all the sectors involved. They are the most interested in open novels with the greatest health security, for their users and for themselves. They're all open to talking to us and collaborating. We cannot put up with the country again; on the contrary, we must keep the activity to a maximum. There is economic salvation, social salvation, emotional and mental salvation of many people. But in order to do so, it is vital not to replenish our homes or our hospitals with malaise so as not to re-affect so many lives and families and not to overwhelm our health care system, as we have said, with a single malaise. It's complex to find the point of balance between all folds, but it's vital and it's essential to achieve it. We trust that the group of experts will also light up a little, a little the way. Certainly, in view of what we have heard, at very complicated times, at times when there were very few answers and many questions; many thanks, Mrs Vergés, for her work. [[Some applause.]] We need to implement all these measures in the health field that have been mentioned today, which were approved at the general policy debate. To remember some: to transform the mental health network with more resources and professionals; to increase twenty-i-five percent the health care assumption for primary care; to deploy and redefine the Public Health Agency of Catalonia; to improve the working conditions of health professionals; to progressively recover the care activity increasing the diagnoses that have been reduced, precisely to focus on this one disease; to face the postcovid sequelae. That is why we hope that the 2022 premise will give the tools to the Health Council so that we can apply all that has been approved, all that we know is necessary, all that we know is that it is fundamental. The report of the thirty experts in charge of the government of President Torra speaks of this increase in Salutation of 5,000_million in five years. That's how I put back the government's agreement. That's how I roll back the warrant. That's how he approved last week at the general policy debate. If we can do it in two years better than in five, obviously, since it is the attention of the citizenry that will benefit. After mass years with this chronic underfunding, which has gone to a health system that was excellent and that now, unfortunately, it is the excellence of its professionals that kept it. But we cannot, in any way, obviate the fiscal deficit with the Spanish State, these 18,000_million euros that Councillor Giró has updated us and that, without doubt, without this fiscal deficit the best of all the public services that could be available to all the citizens of Catalonia would be very important. I repeat, all public services for all citizens. It is precisely because we want a decent and healthy life for everyone that we believe independence is indispensable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.182.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Juli Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.183.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, we are in a new stage, in the stage where we are, the main change is vaccination. The main change that helps us to deal with it in a different way is to be able to have a tool that makes it more difficult for the disease to circulate and less difficult when we contract it. This is the main message that we need to get to everyone, where there are more reticences, sharing scientific experiences, fighting pores and fighting the need that always, always, always, is natural, but that our obligation is to convince, pursue people and vaccinate. To deal with everything that the coward has brought us, beyond the same malaise, to maintain the ability to track and diagnose and to deal with those maladies, as the counselor also indicated, the coward persists after separation, a question that we have now very emerging because they end the incapacitates. Also the strengthening of the health system, obviously, more resources, funds, arrival of arrival, priority but resources of all kinds. Accessibility recovery. Mental health plan. An integral plan for emotional well-being. The schools as the main success of this country. We remember that it was very hard to keep them open, that we made a great effort to keep them open, not only for the formation of our children, but also for what allows us as a society to all and all in terms of activity. And, therefore, in an environment where we are still, today – let us hope that soon there will be – we do not have a vaccine available, we must be curious. We could think of the young people who couldn't vaccinate in June, and do the analogy with the children who can't vaccinate now because they don't have the vaccine available. Therefore, whatever we say, that we should be careful, we follow - applying it also in this space. Everyone, we all have a great deal of hope to live again in a normal way, but, as I said at the beginning, it's not over. The objective: control. We participate in the global solution, because the terms of this pandemic are world-wide, and we prepare for these new possibilities that will come to light, for these you will shoot us with nine ways. And let me end by thanking Councilwoman Vergés for putting all that she had, all that she had of staff, professionally and politically, in a few moments of brutal uncertainty, where she bothered us all, where she worked all hours with her team – Mr Argimon also – with all her team, but especially Councilwoman Vergés to be the face visible in the worst moments of health crisis we have experienced in the recent history of this country and the world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.184.0	Thank you very much. After the appearance, we suspend the session until this late at four o'clock. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.185.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Decree of 19/2021 of 31 August, adapting the Civil Code of Catalonia to the reform of the procedure for judicial modification of the capacity]] [[203-00009/13]] If they occupy their seats, we will start with the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 19/2021, of August 31, for which the Civil Code of Catalonia adapts to the reform of the procedure of judicial modification of the capacity. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Councillor of Justice will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Therefore, the word has the counselor, Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.186.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I am writing to you today to ask for your support to validate the Decree of 19/2021, approved for the Government on 31 August, and for which we adapt the Civil Code of Catalonia to the reform of the procedure of judicial modification of the capacity. Allow me to begin this intervention highlighting the importance of our civil rights. Civil law is our day-to-day right. And in Catalonia we have a civil right that allows us to structure and order society from all its spheres, obviously taking into account our specificities as the country. The Catalan civil law is, therefore, one of the cornerstones of our identity, because it reverses the regulation of uses and legal negotiations between people in the private sphere, according to our daily reality and our way of hearing life. That's why we feel so satisfied and demand it. Looking back, we see how the Catalan civil right has allowed us to articulate as society and weave, too, our personality as a country. And if we look at the present and look at the future, we find ourselves with a modern right, because it is constantly being updated and because it has adapted to social and economic reality to respond to the challenges and needs of the citizenry that you have seen in Catalonia and, at the same time, to protect, of course, our rights. Why, the urgency and the need to make a law decree? So why this decree that today's proposals to validate is an exhibition of this will to adapt the Catalan civil right to the new realities in the protection of people's rights. More concretely, this rule reinforces the rights and autonomy of persons with disabilities, and converts Catalonia into one of the countries with the most well-adapted legislation in accordance with the New York Convention. The International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, adopted in New York on 13 September 2006 for the United Nations General Assembly, establishes that persons with any disability must enjoy fully the guarantees of human rights and fundamental freedoms. The conviction also clarifies how to exercise the rights of persons with disabilities and identifies areas where legal orders are to be adapted so that persons with disabilities can exercise their rights effectively and directly. The book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia dedicates the title according to the regulation of institutions for the protection of persons with judicially modified capacity, to which the judicial authority, through the judgment, has until now placed in guardianship, curate it or under another temporary measure of protection. Now, with the application of Article 12 of the New York Convention, it is established that all persons with disabilities must be recognized as having their own legal capacity on an equal basis with respect to the commonality of citizenship in all aspects of life, and that persons with disabilities must have access to the support measures they may need for the exercise of their legal capacity on the basis of their will, their desires, their preferences. It is before this new legal reality, therefore, that since the Department of Justice it has promoted a participatory process on the adaptation of the Civil Code of Catalonia to the New York conviction, through the presentation of the document Basis of the reform of the Civil Code of Catalonia in matters of support for the exercise of legal capacity. This participatory process ended on October 30th of the 20th, and the number of contributions of individuals and entities we have incorporated into the drafting tasks of the pre-project of law, commissioned, of course, to the Commission of Codification of Catalonia. This process of adapting our Civil Code currently follows its path and its terms so that it can be approved for this Parliament. But, meanwhile, we in Catalonia need to establish a transitional regime to guarantee these rights, especially after the reform of the procedural law operated by the State Law 8/21 of 2 June, which, depending on the state's powers and in order to comply with New York's conviction, eliminates the process of incapacity, and that is why we had to approve the law. For this change, we need to establish a legal regime adapted, as I said, to the New York conviction and which is used to give response to the new support procedures that are due from now on to Catalonia, an abolition of judicial modification of the capacity and structured procedural response to the right of persons to the support for the exercise of their legal capacity. And here I want to make a little parentheses to thank the quick and beautiful work done by the Section of Person and Family of the Codification Commission, especially its president, Dr. Carmen Gete-Alonso, Dr. Jordi Ribot and the director of the Commission, Mr. Carles Ollé Favaró. His diligent work has allowed us to make this decree law, which means that our legislation continues to be one of the best suited, in this case, to the conviction of the United Nations. This transitional regime allows rights holders who establish the New York Convention to have support institutions adapted to the Convention until the completion of the reform of our Civil Code. At the same time, this decree must also serve as a reference to review the measures currently applicable to persons subject to any of the guardianship institutions established before the new regulation. Thus, if an immediate legislative amendment were not approved or not approved, the entry into force of the Eminent State Law of 3 September would have created a legal void in Catalonia to the detriment, of course, of persons with disabilities. Catalonia, the goddess, has its own civil regulation in the matter constitutionally protected and currently in force. And the recently approved state law respects the non-procedural content of the substantive civil right is neither direct application nor supplementary application to Catalonia, according to articles 111-2 and 111-5 of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Catalan civil regulation, therefore, would have been affected by the entry into force of the Spanish law if we had not expanded, improved and adapted the regulation of the figure of assistance already existing to our Civil Code. In this sense, the legal gap could have led to defencelessness, as I said, for persons in a situation of major disability who need support to exercise legal capacity, while it could have given little to various legal interpretations by legal operators, causing uncertainty and, obviously, lack of legal certainty. That is why it is necessary to fill this legal void until the definitive regulation is completed. And one more time, we stood next to people and pushed this decree into law so we wouldn't let their rights go unnoticed. The most suitable standard instrument that allows for the celery required to cover the standard void is the decree that we approved before the summer, at the end of August. The new Catalan rule that establishes this law decree, therefore, takes as a basis the modification of the current institution of the assistance, which, from then on, replaces the safeguards and replaces the guardians, extended parental powers and rehabilitations and other guardianship rules. Thus, in Article 1 it is established that the adult who needs support in order to exercise his legal capacity under conditions of equality may request the establishment of the assistance provided for in Article 2 on the basis of his will, his wishes and his preferences. And in Article 2 it is detailed in what constitutes the legal system of the assisted person: concept and type of assignment of the person to provide the assistance, effectiveness of the acts of the assisted person, modification and extinction. The reform introduced for this decree allows it to be applied with the full range of powers that the person assisted may need, with the main novelty that must be taken into account his/her will, desires and preferences. This is the spring of the os of this modification. It also incorporates as novelty that it is possible to designate the person who has to provide assistance both through the judicial process, as well as through a public notarial writing. This second way allows to advance for non-judicial ways for support institutions for persons with disabilities, to reduce the activity to the courts, without harm, in any case, of the supervisory and supervisory functions that, in any case, are close to the prosecution and the judicial authority. From the date of entry into force of the decree, therefore, as laid down in the transitional provisions, guardianship, care and parental authority extended or rehabilitated may no longer be constituted in relation to persons of major age. It has to apply, if ladder, the system of assistance, a figure from always thought and created to respect the will of the assisted person, and, therefore, an institution, from always in our Civil Code, adapted to the New York experience, today strengthened. When the work of the Codification Commission is completed, the final proposal of the support and protection institutions for persons with disabilities, according to the new concept of legal capacity, will be made. The fourth final provision provides that the Government shall, in the term of twelve months, present a draft law on support for the exercise of legal capacity. And so we will: before one year we will bring to Parliament the proposal to complete the adaptation to our Civil Code of the New York Convention in this matter. I'm done. Because our civil right is a living civil right, beyond putting it in value, I want to invoke it as much from the realm of justice as from academics and academics. So important is that you judge and advocate him so that those who today are at university, but one day they will be part of the legal world, they will be propitious and, above all, useful. It's with updates that we're due in time that we can get back our civil rights and make it a really useful tool for serving people and, as a result, for all of our society. The Commission for Codification of Catalonia is already working, as I said, in the text of the future law, also incorporating the contributions of various legal operators of the subject matter and the main entities of the sector. In this elaboration of the standard text we will also use the application of the law decree that we are bringing to validation today, because it will serve as a guide and, at the same time, to see if we can improve some aspect of the application during this year. I avail myself of this forum to ask, therefore, the parliamentary groups that I support to validate this decree and also to ask them to bring in the contributions that they can add in order to have the best possible law. Our intention is and will be to take into account all the proposals that come to us. I know we'll all make a good law. And that's important, because the laws are a reflection of the values of a society. And ours is a firm and committed society where we want everyone to have opportunities to prosper and live with dignity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.187.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, as you know, will be a maximum of two minutes. And it has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.188.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, will advise, if I may, that we will have to make a legal analysis and a policy, in this case, of this decree. You know I have a deep respect for you both personally and politically, but today, frankly, I have a certain disappointment. And I'll explain. There are a couple of requests that I think in politics are very useful, to hear from this Member, that they are humility and recognition of the well done work, be it from where it comes from or from where it comes from. I believe that, in the case of this decree, it respects the application of the New York Convention of 13 September 2006, we have not been modern, we have not been pioneers or agile, and, unfortunately, I believe that they are not the best adapted at the moment – at the moment – with this decree. The Congress of Deputies has approved Law 8/2021, as you well know. The preliminary draft of this law was made available to all parliamentary groups of the Congress on July 2020. His parliamentary processing began in depth on October 2020, with parliamentary appearances, culminating in his approval, as you well know, to May. A very busy law and a law that had absolutely knowledge of both the Group of Together and the Left at the Congress. You think that, in the end, this rule, as you have well explained, supposes a profound updating, in the case, for example, state, of multiplicity of regulations. It amends, among others, the law of notarial service; the Civil Code; the mortgage law; the Law 1/2000, on civil prosecution; Law 41/2003, of 18 November, on the property protection of persons with disabilities; amendment of the Civil Code, the LEC and the tax legislation for this purpose; and also the Law 20/2011, of the Civil Registry, and also the 21/15, of the voluntary jurisdiction. I sincerely believe that it modifies many more things than we modify, which, in this case, is the second book, respects its second title. So, understand this group when we tell him that, man, it's not the restroom, what we've done here. On all fronts, the advance that we will vote in favour of this decree. And we will do so, counsel, with all the respect that you already know that I have, not for you, but for the disabled, for the people who, in the end, have been deprived of these benefits that you foresee the New York Accord and, in a way that we hear from our group, for a long time, for disgrace. At the statement of reasons of the decree that we are being presented today, they say that it must be approved – and you repeated it in your presentation – so as not to generate a legal void, but the reality is that they have fallen asleep. So it only generates more uncertainty. Precisely this uncertainty that you said you don't want to generate I think it has so far been generated. And this uncertainty is generated not by these Members, but by the families, the people and the community with disabilities. In the end – comparisons are hateful, sometimes – this is our law decree, and this is the law, in the end, state. You said that, obviously, it is a matter of our Civil Code, but we can also apply it, on the basis of Article 111-5, in a supplementary way, whenever it does not contravene the norms of the Catalan right. I don't know how well you were to apply a rule that was much more laborious and quite provisional, because this decree is insufficient. It can only be remembered that our own laws, counsel, are not adapted to international conviction. Look, there's a law as important as the 2014 Accessibility Law, which still doesn't have an approved regulation. What we have with a Catalan law of signs that has no type of economic endowment. Or, for example, that we are four years old – four years old – discussing the national pact for the rights of persons with disabilities. Or – and this is what hurts – we have a waiting list of four_ thousand people with intellectual disabilities waiting to access the residential service for people with disabilities. It shows, objectively, that, man... neither modern, nor pioneers, nor the European avant-garde. Because, in the end, we need to be aware of what this normalized change means. It is not just a simple change in terminology that leaves behind the traditional terms of 'incapacity' or 'incapacity'; it is a new focus on reality that warns that something has happened for a long time and, moreover, in an unnoticed way: that persons with disabilities are right holders to the grip of their own decisions, which, moreover, must be respected. It is therefore a question, as you have said, of human rights. And it is that many limitations traditionally linked to disability do not have their origins precisely in persons affected by disability, but in their surroundings, such as physical barriers, communicative, cognitive, mental and also legal attitudes that have broken their rights and the possibility of their exercise. The legislative reform promoted at state level, in this case, with Law 8/21 of 2 June, already expresses that it must be accompanied by a change in the environment, a transformation of the social mindset, and especially of those professional law enforcement – judges, magistrates, personnel in the service of the Administration of Justice, notaries, registrars – who must render their respective functions to the demand of persons with disabilities, starting precisely from these new principles and not from paternalistic visions that today are absolutely anachronistic. This, as I have said, counsel, hangs on the human rights and the principle of dignity provided for in Article 10.1 of the Spanish Constitution, and, if I may, in a poetic reference..., I believe that it is never better expressed that by the verses of Goytisolo to Words for Julia, on said: "Your destiny is in others, / your future is your own life, / your dignity is that of all. With regard to the legal analysis of the law that concerns us, we are proud that you consider that the figure of the assistant, of the assistance, is the cornerstone on which all the law and legislation at the Catalan level must ultimately be gravitate, because, in the end, it was a proposal, at the time, socialist. Therefore, I deeply appreciate what I considered to be the cornerstone. This figure... I will not focus on explaining what you consider. We think that the issue of being able to do not only by judicial means, but by notarial means, is a good one. In the end, you have stated that you want to avoid the saturation of the jutjats, that in Catalonia it is deep and, more than that, shivering. In this sense, of alternative resolution of disputes, to the alternate government we have very good proposals that we will make them arrive and I am convinced that they will love, advise. But we have some doubts, too. It is not clear to us how they intend to apply the register of non-testamentary names of support to the legal capacity. Yes, there's this obligation to register, but it's also true that it didn't have to be settled. We understand that all this will be done in a more comprehensive way to the law, but we are concerned. At the state level, for example, we have opted for a voluntary register of measures in the Property Registry through a single computerised book, but we don't know how they want to do it here. I hope and wish that this mother you said would have to talk to us so as to develop a law that is – then yes – the modern and the vanguards of Europe also counted with the Socialist Party Group of Catalonia. As far as 226-2 and 226-3.4 are concerned, from the notary... it seems good to us, but it creates doubts as they think they will, as I said, respect the inscription. 226-1, respects the way to hold back the assistance... it seems to us correct in all nuclear matters, this article. At 226-2, the first point would be good to add that no court can provide for the mere provision of law, as established, for example, by national law. Similarly, I believe that the point of reference to the responsibility for the acts of the person assisted under Article 226-5 would make us talk a lot, since it is legally complex. It is one of the important issues that we would like to talk to you about: what would be the responsibility for the actions of this assisted person. Likewise, we also – and with this we will finish – have doubts no longer only about its legislation, but about its execution, counsel. Think of the many guardian foundations, the twelve months of waiting until we have this bill of law or the form of the registry, as we say, of the non-willed names. Doubts that we expect to be resolved during this time, since – we always say so, but I think it is lawful today to repeat it – there are such important issues, Counselor, that we cannot do politics with them. And this, to be sure, is one of them. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.189.0	Thank you very much. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Sergi Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.190.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, my name is Sergio. I'm telling you because... I'm sure it'll be a waste, because I know you always take it into account. First of all, I want to send my support and affection to the fellow Palmists for the eruption of the Old Summit volcano during these weeks, and also to the family and companions of the agent of Mossos d'Esquadra who died yesterday during the practice. I haven't had a chance to do that, and I take advantage of this moment. May he rest in peace. In a legal order, the Civil Code is an essential rule of capital importance, the backbone of the legal system. It must therefore not be changed lightly, but as a result of a thorough study, in a very thoughtful manner and with all possible legal and political consensuses at the maximum technical level. The Common Civil Code has been amended many times since it was adopted in 1889, but it had never been amended by royal decree law in the forty years of the Constitution, because it was absolutely unimaginable until Mr.Sánchez arrived, that everything that touches, destroys or analyzes it. And so, in 2018, the socialist government came up with the idea of amending the Common Civil Code by royal decree law, and nothing less than a matter as sensitive as parental authority, leaving all jurists stunned. But these lawyers are even more stupefying because the Civil Code of Catalonia has been modified by decree law – the autonomous equivalent of the royal decree law of the Government of the nation – on four occasions; the last, the decree law that today is submitted to debate and vote in this plenary, the Decree Law 19/21 of 31 August, which adapts the Civil Code of Catalonia to the reform of the judicial capacity modification procedure. This decree is a consequence of State Act No. 8/21 of 2 June, which reformes civil and procedural legislation to support persons with disabilities in the exercise of their legal capacity, which entered into force on 3 September and which has reformed the procedure for judicial modification of capacity: judicial incapacity, declaration of prodigality, has been abolished and replaced by the processes of over-provision of judicial measures to support persons with disabilities. As from the entry into force of the State reform, consequently, the extended or rehabilitated guardianship, guardianship and parental authority provided for in the Civil Code of Catalonia are eliminated and no longer applicable. The purpose of this decree is to provide temporary coverage for persons with disabilities until the amendment of the second book of Law 25/2010 is approved by a law of the Parliament. All these changes, in turn, bring about the signature by Spain of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, done in New York on 13 December 2006. The state reform that has motivated this decree law is a complex and profound reform that affects a nuclear legal concept in any legal system, which is that of legal capacity, and that affects numerous legislative texts – already commented by the partner of the PSC: the Civil Code, the mortgage law, the law of the Civil Registry, the law of civil prosecution, the law of voluntary jurisdiction, the law of the notary, etc. – and therefore it is not a minor issue. But since VOX we understand that the incorporation into our legal system of these requirements of the New York Convention – in particular, its article 12 – could have been interpreted or carried out in another way. Proof of the controversy about this reform is the submission of nearly six hundred amendments by parliamentary groups in Congress and of almost three hundred amendments in the Senate to the state law from which it causes this decree law that is now being debated in this chamber. I will refer to three issues which I believe are fundamental in the text of the Decree-Law. First of all, I would like to refer to the substance of the question underlying the reform of the State and also of the present decree law, because, apart from containing in the reform positive technical aspects that we value favourably..., however, we believe that the spirit of the state law and of the decree law of the Generalitat is absolutely wrong. And it is that the concept of the dignity of the person is linked with the will, with the ability to decide. It is understood that the dignity of the person resides in his or her will, and therefore the decree law states that efforts will be made, at all times, to ensure that the will, wishes and preferences of the disabled person are fulfilled, but in no case is the best interest of the disabled person spoken of, and this is a tremendous error. According to the reform that comes up, if someone doesn't decide he's not worthy. And for us it is worthy as long as it is person, decide or not decide. Dignity is inherent in the human being, honourable Members, as a bearer of universal values, and does not depend on his capacity and will. Because there are people whose disability is of the utmost degree, they suffer a total lack of discernment, and their dignity is exactly the same as that of all of us. The dignity of the human being therefore resides in his or her status as a person, and not in his or her decision-making capacity. Secondly, the reform breaks with multi-secular concepts, such as the traditional distinction between 'legal capacity' and 'ability to act' which all the lawyers who are present in the Chamber know perfectly well. The legal capacity as an ability to hold rights and obligations in abstract and the ability to act as the concrete ability to exercise such rights and obligations is the classic correlation, therefore, between the right and the exercise of the right. On this dichotomy there was a system that has worked for centuries giving due protection to people who cannot govern themselves. If there was a lack of capacity – incapacitated or under-age non-emancipated –, guardianship and parental power, also known as parental power, or extended or rehabilitated parental power, which were institutions or systems of representation, came into play. If it was only necessary to complete their capacity – minor emancipated or incapacitated with a high degree of discernment – the curatela came into play as a system of assistance and not representation. The state reform and the decree law of the Generalitat are characterized by eliminating from a pen that dichotomy, but they do so in a contradictory way, because it eliminates them for the elderly disabled, but not with respect to minors. If the wishes and preferences of persons with disabilities are to be the guiding criterion for the acts of their civil life, why is it not so also with regard to minors? Why is guardianship for older disabled persons abolished, but guardianship for children who are not emancipated, are not subject to parental authority or are helpless? This is nonsense, anyway. Thirdly, the criterion of the best interests or best interests of the disabled person is not envisaged. The only criterion of action that is taken into account is respect for the will, wishes and preferences of the person with disabilities, their right to make their own decisions, with or without support, and this is barbarity. The Decree-Law of the Government, in line with the reform, rejects concepts such as deciding on the basis of the best interests of the disabled person, who is old-fashioned and discriminatory for you, and eliminates institutions such as guardianship or parental authority extended or rehabilitated by considering denigrants for the disabled person. And, look, sometimes the mental limitations or deficiencies are of such magnitude, of such magnitude, that they not only prevent a person from governing himself, but prevent him from meeting his minimum vital needs. Just go to Father Alegre's Cottolengo, on the Carmel Road, to help the sister servants take care of disabled people, to know what I'm talking about. Or, look, the day before yesterday the Diari de Tarragona – on October 4th – published a news story about two men who are going to be tried at the hearing in Tarragona for taking advantage of an older disabled person who was asked for sexual favors in exchange for five euros or a coffee. The girl came to the bar where these events took place. In this case, I wonder: is it necessary to respect the will of this poor disabled girl, to go to the bar and get five euros, to take five euros home, that perhaps for her it is her maximum illusion and she is not aware of the sexual abuse to which she is being subjected? Or should this person's best interest prevail and his parents or guardians forbid him to go there, if his desire, this girl's desire, is to continue doing so? The protection that the State reform and the decree law, in its second transitional provision, are charged is not a denigrating institution, but a measure of protection that has proved to be absolutely effective over the centuries for the benefit of the represented person himself. And the Civil Code of Catalonia already introduced improvements to guardianship in order to respect the will of guardianship. Article 222/47, for example, exempted from representation any acts that the guardianship might perform in accordance with its natural capacity or acts relating to its personality rights. This, we consider, was a better course of action: to perfect the institutions that we already had, rather than to energize the legal system on a nuclear issue such as the legal capacity by imposing globalist conceptions of third institutions that impose on us texts that determine and disfigure our legal system. That is why we will vote against the validation of this decree law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.191.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Congresswoman Montserrat Vinyets has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.192.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, the position of the CUP in relation to this Decree Law 19/2021, amending the Civil Code of Catalonia, in relation to the process of modifying the capacity of people, will be abstention. We don't do this because more or less thick, the text, as the member of the Socialist Party has emphasized, because, in the end, they are different legal orders. And we will abstain from it because we are starting from the base that, as this decree will count on the approval of the Government, and so it will pull forward..., we will bet on forbearance because it is true that in this legal text there is a whole series of doubts that have emerged from its reading, and we hope that at a later time, in concrete terms, when the draft law amending the Civil Code of Catalonia is being forwarded, that the same decree will already provide for it to be done in twelve months..., so we will hear that these doubts will already be clarified, and then, at that time, the CUP Group will surely give its yes to this draft of the law. We're the ones who're committed to being on hold, aren't we? From everything that came up in relation to the applicability of this decree, which would arise many, problems. It is a change, as has been said, very substantial: it breaks out schemes of institutions that carried many years applying, and, therefore, will not be easy. And, therefore, we are aware of this and we will try to put everything that is relevant on our part to try to get a good definite text. As explained in the first statement of reasons of the decree, we are now actually in a process of adaptation of the Civil Code of Catalonia to the New York Convention through this Commission of Codification that we have here in Catalonia, having made a participatory process with lawyers, such as the councillor there is a reference, and not only lawyers, but also other specialists, who have given this document the basis of the reform of the Civil Code and which will be the final text. It is clear, therefore, that we share the need – and that we want to make it clear and clear – to adapt our Civil Code, unlike other parliamentary groups who believe that we should not touch traditions that come from 1889 and that we believe that today they are perfectly overtaken by the evolving needs of society. We do share this need to adapt to the international conviction of New York. We also know that these processes are long, time-consuming, because legal texts are to be done well – we share this need – and willingly stay in time. New York's conviction is clear: it obliges states to take necessary measures to provide people with a different ability to access the harvest they may need in the exercise of their legal capacity. Indeed, there is a paradigm shift: the cornerstone now is the dignity of the person; he must stop seizing and guarantee the right to his free will. Because, of course, before the previous speaker called it a higher interest. What is this higher interest? This higher interest... is very questionable, which is the higher interest. Therefore, as this, in the end, is an indeterminate legal concept, so perhaps this higher interest we will have to look for in the free will, precisely, of the person concerned, and above all do so with proportionality and with reversibility, that is, that this decision is not extended without time, but is so much revised and updated. It's about, therefore – as a lawyer said – iron, isn't it? , a dress to the measure of each person, and not to place a piece of clothes from these that are made in chain. Well, the ability... Therefore, they will no longer be able to modify legal capacities. That's why we're glad, because we also understand that this is inherent in the human condition and that it's committed to raising the person who needs it. It is not a matter either of replacing volunteers, of deciding for another, but rather of ultimately accompanying. We'll stop applying tutelage, except for the minor unemployed, and extended powers and rehabilitations. And we're glad about that, too. Now, we also have to say that we understand that this text has been dictated with many presses. It has been dictated with press to establish a transitional regime for the abolition of judicial modification of the capacity, once it has entered into force this State Law 8/2021 to which it refers. And, well, justify that this decree had to be adopted because, if not, there would be a legal void. And we also agree with what the counselor said. We understand that in our home we have some institutions that are directly applicable, and, if there is no forecast, that is empty of content, and we cannot go to an alternate application of another right, because our right is complete. Therefore, if one thing is not foreseen, it means that the legislator did not want to predict it. In this case, it is not to be understood that we have to apply an additional right that is alien to our legal tradition. We do want to make manifest that we understand that this has been done with the presses, and everything that is done with the presses, so it's not well done. We should have finished the work of the Codification Commission, and we didn't have to do this transitional rule; we could have done it before, because this New York conviction is 2006. And we also believe that we have title enabling us not only to touch the substantive right, but also the process right, because everything you hold on to the substantive right... we can also touch the process consequences. So we could have gone further there, too. Now, given that this conviction presupposes a total sacrifice to the regime to apply to people with differentiated abilities, it would take advantage, as I said, of this transitional regime to make a motxilla of all practical difficulties and solve them in the final text. And we urge you to continue working to work well on this last reform, which is as complete as possible. It also generates doubts about something else that explains the motius exposition, doesn't it? It is based on the idea that now it is not only possible to go to judicial institutions, but also that we can anchor notarial public writings. Well, we have many doubts about the guarantees that all these acts are carried out before notari. Whether we like it or not, they have a whole series of guarantees, some possibilities for exploration, some expert services, some forensic meths, that give a job to the judge in their pocket, and we don't know if all these guarantees can be given while they're waiting to make a statement of public writing. Therefore, we understand that all this should be solved more. Apart from saying with all respect for the notarial collection... if we take into account, therefore, that in this country there have been dictates, there have been many public writings with abusive clauses and many shortcomings and there has been no protection on the part of the notaries. So, you're gonna have a little bit of a hold on that trust again, aren't you? , because the notary body can intervene in decisions that affect people's abilities so directly. The other thing that is said: "It is also necessary to do this, to go to the notarial writing, to decongest the jutjats. You see, we understand that the solution to decongest justice is to equip them with public resources, staff them, function them, but not to take skills that were from justice and move them to another collection; so... And, furthermore, bearing in mind that the application of this decree will entail a review of all the procedures that have been given in capacity modification; therefore, there will be an impressive flood of procedures that will enter the courts. And we understand that the councillor has all this already presented and has some protocol or schedule or has already studied how they will do, the justices..., how they will carry all this amount of requests that they will give in their own time. In any case, I only have a minute. I just wanted to say that we share the full force of the Generality's ability to dictate civil law, as the magistrate of the Constitutional Court Juan Antonio Xiol Ríos explained to the inaugural conference of the Jornades de Dret Civil de Tortosa – to which the Councillor also attended – who illustrated to us all about the competition in civil law in the 21st century. What is important, from this Parliament, is to defend a concept which he calls the 'federal right', which means that Catalonia continues to be competent in a very broad manner and that only the State has powers such as: the application of legal standards, legal relations relating to forms of marriage, the ordering of registers and public instruments, the basis of contractual obligations and the rules for resolving conflicts. The rest, we can legislate it here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.193.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Jordi Jordan MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.194.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, we find ourselves before the adoption of a decree that comes out of the reform to promote the support of persons with disabilities in the exercise of their legal capacity in accordance with the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities held in New York, as it was previously said, on 13 December 2006, that it had as its purpose to protect and ensure the conditions of full equality and dignity of all human rights and fundamental freedoms of all persons with disabilities. This conviction therefore required the State to take measures to exercise its legal capacity to prevent abuses of compliance with international human rights law. This reform, therefore, establishes the change of a system where currently what prevails is the substitution in the taking of decisions that affect people with disabilities, based on a paternalistic view, for another system based on respect for the person's will – as the adviser also said – which will be in charge of taking its own decisions. As a result, the Catalan civil right has to adapt to this new regulation by creating the new figure of assistance for the protection of disabled seniors. We find ourselves with a decree that acts – we have said it before – as a matter of urgency and as a transitory rule over the people who are already in custody, heal it and extend it, who have now disappeared, and there is still a more profound change in the book according to the Catalan Civil Code to adapt it to the New York Convention, which, as we say, is the new protection and support framework for our processes that will go bankrupt in the future, and which will be in the Parliament before a year. From Common We can consider the fact that this reform respects much more, obviously, the will and preferences of people. And we see that when we take much more account of the wishes and wishes of people with disabilities, who, despite the need for support and assistance, have a margin to make decisions that will have to be adapted on a case-by-case basis, individually and not generically, as it was so far. It's also a proclamation, isn't it? from this decree, that persons with disabilities have legal capacity on equal terms and that measures must be taken to provide these persons with the support they may need in the exercise of their legal capacity. It is also ensured that the measures relating to the exercise of legal capacity respect the rights, the will and preferences of each person, that there is no conflict of interests or undue proportional influence, and adapted to the circumstances of the person, and also subject to periodic examinations by a competent judicial authority or body. Now, it's also true that we're going to have to prepare a shock plan so that this situational change can be handled quickly. And let's face it, because from our group we also think that the decree above with mass presses, and, unfortunately, we do not consider, in this sense, that we are neither pioneers nor at the forefront at the level of the State nor of Europe, but that we are complementing that which was long ago to have been done and which, therefore, also sees this conviction held in New York. In this sense, there is a whole series of measures and actions planned – such as friendly follow-up, such as technical support in the communication of voluntary declarations, such as the breaking of architectural barriers, advice or decision-making by delegations – that will take place on a regular basis and act on them. And, in addition, this new regulation will not only have to deal with matters of natural heritage, but also, as has been said, will have to take personal aspects into account. We are also faced with the need to strengthen the figure of the guard, in fact, which is transformed into a legal institution of support and no longer a provisional situation when it is appropriate to safeguard the rights of persons with disabilities. When it is required that the keeper perform a representative performance, it is also foreseen that he will be required to obtain judicial authorization, provided that circumstances are examined. The new text also draws back the figure of the judicial defender, provided for situations in which there is a conflict of interests between the figure of support and the person with a disability or disability in a conjunctural manner and that the figure of usual support exercises it. Finally, we would like to point out that all support measures adopted by the courts must be periodically reviewed within a maximum of three years or, in exceptional cases, up to six years, and that their modification may also be required. In short, we are ahead of a decree that sees a state reform coming out of an international agreement in the framework of the United Nations Assembly where it guarantees more rights to persons with disabilities, eliminating guardianship and extended parental authority, which provides for legal support and support where you can decide on property and personal issues. It is clear that this is why, from our group, we will vote in favour. Let us hope that it is actually converted into a new instrument that generates more rights for all people with disabilities in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.195.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.196.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Consellera, well, to say to you, I would almost begin by saying: we will vote yes to the validation of this decree. And, yes, I would like to comment a little bit that..., how is the self-congratulation that presides over the public debate in Catalonia. Because whoever has listened to you, counselor, will think that we are the spearhead of the regulation of the disabilities that need assistance in making decisions, that we are one of the leading countries, etc. – which you have said here – and the truth is that we have been slow to transpose the regulations. What is also true is that we have done it quickly and running, after the state regulations were adapted and here in Catalonia we got caught, with a judicial system that had changed for some assumptions that were now not in force, and we had to do it quickly and running. But the truth is also that the presentation of the legal text, the explanatory statement, is very technical – it is very technical – and is very far from these chauvinist dyes from which anything is dressed in Catalonia when politics comes to speak. It seemed good to me, this text. This text was a necessary text, and that face, here, some criticisms that have been made, that, well, this is not..., especially on the part of the VOX Group, which considers that it is charged I don't know what..., I don't know what..., let's say immanent property of the person, etc., and it is left at serious risk to a person, and you have put here an example of a poor incapable woman who for five euros suffers sexual abuse... Listen, this regulation also covers these assumptions, and they haven't been invented here, huh? The evil separatists. This is the New York Convention of 2006. And we, as Spaniards, have signed this convention. And, therefore, we are obliged to transpose into our national law what was agreed upon a few years ago at the New York Convention. And I think what this regulation does is transpose it, huh? , about the New York Convention ; not Mr. Pedro Sánchez, the New York Convention. And I believe, too, that what the New York convention said is more respectful of disabled people. And instead of replacing his will, he complements it and assists them in making decisions. And it seems to us that that's okay, because it's more respectful of people and it's a more modern way of focusing on disabilities. Therefore, taking into account the 2006 New York International Convention, taking into account Law 8/2021 of 2 June, State, and also taking into account the Catalan Civil Code in the second book and article 129 of the Statute of Autonomy, as, listen, it is up to you to touch the Catalan Civil Code and adapt it to the state regulations and the New York Convention. This decree..., we must also understand – and we see this – that it is a transitional regime until the most profound modification of the second book of the Catalan Civil Code. I believe that the Codification Commission that the Councillor has appointed has played an important role, because it has actually drafted precepts that are reasonable, applicable, sensible, in accordance with state law – care! – although this I... I regret to disgust you, Madam Counselor, but yes, it is in accordance with state law, and it is good that it is so, because it is more respectful also with the disability that can suffer any person in Spain who is in one or another place. We cannot have seventeen disability schemes in Spain, it is normal. And that is why it is also amazing that, on the part of the Member of the CUP, it hurts that there is no procedural change: « Ostras, what a pity that we do not also have 17 different procedures in Spain and we cannot touch the procedure and do it in our own way! I don't know, I wish in Europe they had a few judicial proceedings and they were all absolutely homologable. There is nothing wrong with protecting people in broad areas of protection of rights. There is nothing wrong with us having the same protection of the rights of the disabled in Catalonia as in Extremadura, and therefore that our adaptation of our own civil law is consistent, uniform, homologable to that which is done in the rest of Spain. Therefore, Ciutadans also sees it as a very reasonable and very realistic reform. I would also like to comment on the fact that it seems reasonable to us that the provisions contained for legal operators, i.e. that they have the power to process such cases of assistance to the disabled..., that they be dealt with by the judges, but also by the notaries. That I think is a good thing in Catalan law, contrary also to what the partner of the CUP thinks. Therefore, the guardianships, the guardianships, the extended parental powers disappear. And, ultimately, I believe – and I am not going to extend here much – that disabled people win. I believe that this regulation had to be adapted; there was nothing else to do, because, if not, we were left with a major legal vacuum in Catalonia. I think it fits well. I believe that, above all thinking of these people and of the respect to which I referred, which enshrines the New York Convention, it has been done with sufficient guarantees, and that, therefore, this bridge rule – because it is a bridge rule until this amendment of the second book of the Catalan Civil Code is legislated – is sufficient. Therefore, without extending me further, we will support this validation of the decree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.197.0	Next, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.198.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I'll be brief, because I think the analysis of this issue we need to have above all when we're processing the Civil Code Amendment Bill, which is where we really have to address the most complicated issues of the development of this modification we're making, right? We will vote in favour of this decree, because in the background we are eliminating discrimination. And I think we're before an obligation not only legal, but also a moral obligation; I mean, here's a debt hanging with people with disabilities. And so, in this sense, here we take the first step, so, to eliminate this discrimination, and in this sense it will be, our vote, favorable. But I would like to make some observations. The first is the system we're using. I think we're doing a bit of the law. We're not used to legislating through a law decree. Here we take a question that is of a profound, important fall, through a decree that has a duration of twelve months, and therefore I think it would not be the most appropriate way. We are talking about one of the biggest reforms that have taken place in private law, I believe, ever since we have democracy. It's a very important private law reform, which doesn't only affect the Civil Code, but it does affect a lot of regulations that don't make sense, from this change that we have on the table today, right? And that has to be done with a lot of rigour. And it has to be done with a lot of rigour not only with the content of the reform, but also with its processing, right? And here I leave this little criticism, that I think that, so, we're always going with press, we're going with decrees, we're going with little debate, and I think that here... that wouldn't be the way to proceed. We're talking about a reform that's not just a legal change. I think we're wrong if we just take this as a legal change. This reform supposes a conceptual change, a change of mindset to many levels, very deep, and we must be able to guarantee a good application. Because, in the end, here's what we say is that from then on each case is unique and each case has an individualized and customized solution and adapted to that particular person. And here, therefore, we must be able to facilitate these individualized and adapted supports to the needs of each of the people, with their own disability. And here I put on the table one of the points that during the debate we have in the processing of the project, so it will be appropriate, at least for our group, which is: we must be able to prevent these support measures that these people need from assuming an insurmountable expense, because this is a real risk that these people have. I mean, now we're changing the whole system, adapting the whole system to an individualized support, but this individualized support has to be guaranteed that it's perfectly absorbable in its full size for the person who has it, right? And that is a small task on the part of the public administration, when it is time to be able to facilitate this. As I said, our vote is favourable. I reserve the... I think the debate that I think we need to have in committee, with a draft law amending the Civil Code..., much more serene, much more thoughtful and much more thought-provoked than here, a process of a decree of law. Our vote is in favour. And I do place them at... we have twelve months; it's a long time, it's flying. Let's start now, from today. That this is approved and we begin to put ourselves in this modification, which is very necessary. Because, as I'm saying, we don't just have to deal with the modification of the Civil Code, but we'll have to go through a lot of changes to a lot of other regulations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.199.0	Thank you, Mrs. Parera. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Pere Albó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.200.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen, the Joint Parliamentary Group will, of course, support this decree, this Decree of 19/2021, approved on 31 August and for which the Civil Code of Catalonia has been adapted, as explained, to the reform of the procedure for judicial modification of the capacity. The truth is, yesterday, when I was barring, right? A little, already, this intervention... Well, I liked it very much and asked me the question—never better said—that the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can do about the situation of the young man, and, well, the concept of adult centerism, right? , which they explained to us and which they were discussing in a very interesting way with the councilwoman, and, ultimately, an adult center – that I did not know this concept and have consulted it, did I not? – that, well, in fact, it is less the opinion of young people or less the opinion of children. Well, anyway, I think these debates like what we're carrying here today are an extraordinary one. And more over there, maybe, right? , of the small article, of the regulations, of the transitory disposition, of the final disposition, is of those fundamental things, important, transcendent, that really, therefore, we can do here. And in the same way that it's saying that we can't have a vision that I'm missing and that we have to go beyond this less of the youth and that desire, that thing of "when you're big enough you'll understand and all these cliches that we all surely have or have incorporated..., well, with a vision of politics, in this sense, of pedagogy too, that we also have to go changing these profiles, these cliches and these mindsets. And this is also a job that's been here ever since. Therefore, we are talking – and, in this sense, what we are approving today is – about moving forward and changing paradigms, as has been said, and, as there are people who have considered it, so this proposal has defined it. And, effectively, we think we're ahead of a paradigm shift. Indeed, as has been said, work will have to be done, so, throughout the process of adaptation of the second book, but at this point it is necessary to make this approval. But this approval, the one we carry today to approval, it already incorporates, huh? , this paradigm shift: there where what was an 'incapacity' becomes people with disabilities. And, more fundamentally, as was the case in yesterday's debate, it is a matter of 'accompanying, assisting. And this I think is a conception that we all have to go through; that, as a fine rain, we go into it and fall into all that is this world of assistance to disability. This decree law, this regulation, so... well, somehow it does that and re-establishes guardianship, care and extended or rehabilitated parental authority, which can no longer be related to older people. That is, as has been said, a transformation of very low. And, well, these are figures that are reserved for the underage, waiting for what we end up legislating. Therefore, an institution is established that fundamentally revolves around the assistance of people who need it. And that, therefore, effectively implies giving them dignity, of course. And this we have to verbalize, we have to say it and we have to defend it. And exceptionally, counter – I agree with some representative who has noticed it –..., it can have a represented character. I, therefore, some examples, say, trembling, no? , which have posed themselves, of concrete situations, do not remain – one has to say, because, if not, the idea can remain that it is not so – in oblivion neither remain unmanaged nor anything that is assembled there, eh? Basically they will take into account, in the measure in which they can take into account, the will, the desires, the preferences of the person. Basically, if he listens to it, he gives it dignity. He'll be given a dignity that maybe, for the way they've been so far... as it was said, they functioned, by tradition, some institutions, so he missed it. Or at least the will of this reform is to go tending and to go generating all the fish they provoke and vagina in this path. In short, we could be detailing the rules, but, well, in the end, by the end, I think the phone book is that concept, right? , political. Before I came I wanted to look at a few data, and it seemed very interesting to me to move the next one, and it's that around the world population's de_per_cent– it's like, 650_million people– living with a disability. In fact, they are the largest minority in the world. And this xifra is increasing, obviously, because of the growth of the population, the advances of medicine and the process of aging, according to the World Health Organization. And to the countries where life expectancy is higher than seventy years, from midjana to around eight years or 11.5_per_cent of an individual's life– from midjana– can pass with incapacitities. Therefore, this is also a regulation..., an adaptation to an evolution and to a time like the presents and the ones to come. I can't finally be saying he's retired, so it seems like you've had a few full ones, right? And, as the representative of the CUP explained very well, the competition in civil law is absolutely full, but let's say it all: the modifications that make thick..., is because they are modifications of the Registry of Ownership or Registry of Notary or Civil Registry, etc. If they want the councillor to come with a larger size, I invite them to pass all these skills, which I am sure we will manage them properly. It's more, well, it would be desirable. In any case, I think he's got a point of demagogic, when he explained himself and brought himself here with all coherence, saying we're going to God's goodness, right? , in a way, and which presents this proposal in an improvised way. This proposal goes with all the honor of the world and explains, therefore, that there has been a legislative change, that we are adapting ourselves, while we are drafting a definitive law, a definitive modification. Therefore, I believe that this criticism, frankly, is not fair, and so we want to explain. The truth is that it seems to us that this reform is in line with what, as I say, time demands. It's a better one, as it's been said, for the people it's addressed to. And, therefore, our vote will be enthusiastic in favour, huh? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.201.0	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.202.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Deputies, deputies, well, we find ourselves before the validation of Decree 19/2021 of 31 August, for which the Civil Code of Catalonia adapts to the reform of the procedure of judicial modification of the capacity. As the headline, I think everyone should agree that it is not very attractive, and proof of this fact is the lack of enthusiasm in the plenary for following this session. But what is also true is that we should all have the awareness that many times in this House we fill our mouths with the consequences of the pandemic, of mental salvation, of everything that it entails, and someone has to regulate what goes on with these situations and, in this case, help the people who are in this situation in order to be able to carry out their activities with normality and dignity, right? And this is the case where we find ourselves, the need to regulate these assumptions, because, ultimately, it is good for an important part of our society that is affected by these circumstances. My intervention wasn't much different from the rest. In short, it was trying to analyze a little what the decree said: the why, the why in one way or the why in another; if we understood that there was something that would be better. But I think that, as a result of the debate, it is a little bit of a defense of the task, in this case, of the department and, above all, of the Codification Commission, that I think it has a trajectory that supports it and is very important as it is not in question of its work, isn't it? They say that one sees the ball on the other side and you don't see the big one on the other side, and we've listened here to a socialist deputy questioning how this decree was made, the presses to make this regulation, this claim asynchronous with the state legislation, when those who see the Spanish State, the state of autonomy, as something pyramidal should have predicted the effects of the regulations that are adopted at the Congress of Deputies in the different legal orders that coexist in this esteemed state that is said to be Spain, right? And why is that? Because if, of course, the Generality of Catalonia – in this case, the Parliament – has the legislative competence, therefore, for the substantial right in the field of civil law, in which we do not have it, it is in the process. And, logically, as this rare competence in the Spanish State, there cannot be a normative forecast of the Generality in this area without first knowing the figures that in the process field regulate all these processes, in this case, of the configuration of the assistance for the people who are in this situation. They only needed three socialist legislatures to adapt to what the 2006 New York convention said: two from President Zapatero and one from President Sánchez. And, in this case, they have asked that in three months the Government of Catalonia make an adaptation, in this case, of the Civil Code, in order to be able to give answer to the amendment that is fundamental in the area of voluntary jurisdiction and the law of civil injunction entails the Law 8/2021 that approved the Congress of Deputies. And they come back as if this Parliament has done nothing in this field, when... nothing more than reality. I would like to recall that the first Llei 25/2010, of 29 July, of the book according to the Civil Code, related to the person and the family, already affected and regulated many of the areas that provided for the conviction. But also that, the last legislature – that is to say, not so much so – the Law 6/2019, of 23 October, amending the free quarter of the Civil Code, relates to successions to guarantee the equality of rights and non-discrimination of persons with sensory disabilities... And Law 9/2020, of 31 July, amending the book of the Civil Code, and Law 15/2009, of mediation in the field of private law, which served, among other truncal modifications, to replace the term 'incapacitated/incapacitated' for the person with the judicially modified capacity. Now we would probably have to predict..., in the Civil Code amendment bill we also have to predict the ability to be modified judicially or notarily, as long as the decree that today is the door to validation provides for it, right? But beyond that, I don't want to forget – and before she did this, the advice – the work that is being done from the Department of Justice in relation to the preliminary draft for the draft law amending the book according to the Civil Code. And, in this case, it is only necessary to consult the website of the Department of Justice to prove that on July 15, 2020 – even with the old councillor, Constellera Capella – was the start of the phase of instruction of the participatory process that wanted, at that time, no? , to give a view to the persons and institutions affected, and that between 16 and 30 October the return phase was carried out that allows to extreme the conclusions on which the bill must orbit. Therefore, working accurately, in an orderly manner, the logic is to make this process participative. From the same results... in five minutes, it seems, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] As a result of the same, therefore, to recast all these works in order to see, together with the Codification Commission, what must be the tasks that must allow this draft law to be configured, which must be subtended, in this case, to Parliament's consideration. And, to us, at this extreme... Home, we understand that the validation of the law decree, as it does its own prediction, the same, that in the term of twelve_months it will be necessary to present a draft law... The logic is that it does not require processing as proposed by the law, and for us it constitutes an obvious best that it is done with all the guarantees, coming from whom it sees. We have, unlike some of the groups that have previously participated in this spokesman, so... we understand that the Codification Commission deserves all recognition and respect for its pocket. The Civil Code of Catalonia is one of the most advanced civil codes on the European continent; so they recognize all the doctrines in matter. And, therefore, we understand that any criticism, beyond a political position that wants to wear out or question the task that is, in this case, from the council or from the same government, has no more recourse, has it not? For the rest, insist only on one of the particulars that have been made, also, for the company of the CUP, when making a criticism respect the possibility that it is possible to manage noticeably this request for assistance. I believe that from its political position we can understand it, but that it is possible to do it from the notarial route, however, it is also possible to do it from the judicial. And, therefore, we, as a guarantee that there is a duality of procedures, one in the public sphere and one in the semi-public – may also remember that the notaries have a public function –..., for us are all guarantees; first, of service and quality, and, secondly, that all people, regardless of their economic capacity, can access, logically, to all the forecasts that the law does to respect. Therefore, we, logically, will vote in favour of it, as was expected, in this case, counsel, and logically we will oppose it if someone asks that it be dealt with as proposed by law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.203.0	Finally, then, the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. In accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it is recalled that the votes claimed are votes in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are votes in favour of its derogation. I also remember that they have to take care of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, I'm still... I've already touched the bell before; that Mr. Orobtig thought he was straining his word, but it was just because he could come all the deputies. A reminder that they have to take the opportunity to vote, because, if not, they might find that their vote has not been counted. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, you can hold the delegated vote. It may be that the Members who do not still have the vote by delegation. [[Long break.]] Yes; let's vote on the validation of Decree Illi 19/2021. The vote begins. The decree obtained 111 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. Given, therefore, the result of the vote [[applause]] , the law decree has been validated. In accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, a valid copy of this decree, I ask the House whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to process it as a draft law. [[Pause.]] Okay. So, as long as there's no petition, this decree won't deal with it as the bill does. [[Asking the Government about inclusive school and fighting against school segregation]] [[300-00043/13]] And let's get to the bottom of the order of the day, the government's inquiry into inclusive school and the fight against school segregation. Presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.204.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. Start this inquiry. Well, counselor, in the first place, I'd like to talk about school model. As you know, it's a discussion, it's a debate that we've already had, that we'll be having today and that we'll probably continue to have for a while, because it's a lively discussion that we keep some agreements and a lot of disagreements about, and then it seems important to us, in an inquiry like this, to start by placing this debate, because it's from this debate that we come from after the conclusions and the resulting proposals. Obviously, we are on the basis that, if not in theoretical terms, we share that the school model has to fight against school segregation, it has to guarantee inclusion and it has to generate equality and equity. We start from the base, if not, that in theoretical terms we agree on these principles and objectives. Also, we consider that the current school model and the current model of education in Catalonia in absolute guarantees these objectives; in absolute – in absolute. Miri, on the contrary, we think that the current school model, based on the LEC, is a model that, structurally, systemically, generates segregation, is not inclusive and generates inequalities. For an obvious reason: it is not a one-size-fits-all, public, free school model, as we defend ourselves as an alternative – then we will return to it – but it is a model that is already structurally segregated: public centres, of public title; private concerted centres, among them also of various ways, even they have to be secreted by sex, that are elitist, that do not include the diversity of their environment, and private centres. Thus, by natural – by natural – the school model generates inequalities, generates inequalities and, therefore, generates segregation. That sounds like evidence to us. Look, it's obvious that the school doesn't have much less responsibility for the generation of inequalities in society, huh? Inequalities are generated for many reasons. From our point of view, from this point of view capitalism, a system which, structurally, in its own natural sense, generates inequality; it is moreover developed precisely for the very existence of these inequalities. But we would also agree – I think – that we consider that the school should contribute or eliminate or, if not, significantly and substantially reduce these inequalities, huh? It is to say, that those inequalities that are produced outside the school hall, the school should eliminate them or, as a minimum, radically minimize them. Somehow, the school would be a sedate through which society tries to minimize these inequalities, thus, obviously, mitigating everything that must mean the school of equality, equity, equality of opportunity, inclusion, etc. But clearly, if the sedate, if the filter, right? , it is already in itself segregated, if in itself it is already a generator of differences and inequalities, what makes the school is not to minimize these inequalities; what it does is to reproduce them. And here is the plot of the problem and the plot of the conflict: that our school system does not have the function and the mission, or is not complete the elimination of inequalities and social inequalities, but participates in the system of reproduction of these inequalities. That is to say, the social ascent is not working, and later, in the later years, with the detail and increase of segregation, therefore, still less. Well, therefore, we fear – and this is a criticism – that who supports this system, knowing that it generates segregation and inequality, is normalizing and naturalizing these inequalities and inequalities. I mean, if we support a school system that generates segregation, I mean, somehow, we're naturalizing and normalizing that these inequalities have to exist, that in any case, what we want is to regulate them, to kill them, huh? , manage them, but there is no basis in the school system for trying to fight them and eliminate them, is there? Therefore, this is a problem that I would like to discuss with you and with you. We believe that supporting this school system is part of reproduction, not elimination of inequalities. Moreover, there are political parties, political forces, social sectors, which, moreover, defend it openly, that is to say, they want there to be inequalities. That's why they still generate or defend a system still with greater segregation and inequality, huh? because they want the school system to increase this differentiation and social itineraries, etc., in order to maintain the class system clearly. Well, we think that this is not the way, and that if we really want an inclusive school and a non-segregating school, we need to go to the model that we defend from school, with a single, public, universal and free system. And, look, more aware that we live in a country where, at least, 400,000 infants live under the care of the poor. And look, look, if the school system fails, all the projections point out that, years later, an eighty percent of this population will continue to be under the poverty line. Therefore, the elevator does not work, counselor, and school some responsibility there, from our point of view. Well, as you see, we're offering you another system, another alternative. I know we don't agree, but we want to subrate it in this first part of the intervention. And precisely what we add, in view of the data from this beginning of the course, is that what we are doing is deepening into this system, this model and the negative consequences it has. I will repeat a few facts that in your appearance to the Education Commission you told me that they were certainly not, that they did not correspond to reality. Well, what we've done is we've returned to our fonts, contrast them, value them again, and, listen, we're given the same numbers as the ones we put in the Education Commission. And they're numbers, they're figures from the data that you publish. Another thing is that after all these data has varied, we haven't published them yet, and we haven't had access to them, have we? But on the date you published them, these were the data. And to us the numbers tell us that the offer of P3 places for the course 21-22– we are talking about the offer in the pre-registration process – has fallen by 24.60_per_cent to the public and has increased by 14.20 at the concert. In a democratic fall, that, huh? – in demographic decline. And that ESO's 21-22 first place offer dropped a 28.79 to the public and increased a 6.23 to the concert. Therefore, I want to say that what we are doing is going deeper into this system, when we know, moreover, that there have been concertations with empty places to which I have kept the totality of the concert, when we know, moreover, that – it is data that have come out today – the majority of concertations, under tolerance, which I know, of the department, are collecting quotas covertly and illegally; it seems that, according to the data that have been published today, a half of two hundred euros in Catalonia, the highest in the State. Therefore, under the tolerance of the department, it produces this inflated offer, with an illegitimate negotiation through the use of these places, which it obviously contributes to inequalities and segregation, meaning doubt. And, look, let's bear in mind that – I also said this, I repeat it now – in Europe, the middle of the student who goes to the public center is in a eighty-one percent, while in Catalonia we don't get to the seventy-one percent. In Ireland one hundred per cent of public school; in Finland one hundred per cent of public school; in Finland one hundred per cent of public school; in Germany one hundred per cent of public school; in Germany one hundred per cent of public school; in Portugal one eighty-eight; in France one eighty-five; in the United Kingdom one eighty-two. Listen, if we're here with these figures, this is an ideological option, it's a political option for those who have power in this country. Your bet for this model. You bet to be under the European percentages of teaching in public school and this is an ideological option; that we discuss it and that we disagree, and consider that reality and data, unfortunately, give us reason in this sense. And, meanwhile, we also have to say that if we compare it in the Spanish state, it turns out that the Spanish state average is from the seventies. Therefore, counselor, you are perpetuating a model that does not work from the point of view of generating social elevator, equality and fighting against injustices. And, meanwhile, we find that the consequence of this process, in this course, according to our figures, which I sustain and maintain, has closed down two public groups, when to maintain the course principle, with the data that the Process gives [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] As for the rates of twenty per class, we would need a minimum of forty-three more groups. Therefore, a set of data and considerations – and I finish, President – which indicates that we have a model problem. We have a serious resource problem – after we talk about it – we have a very high priority problem, but we certainly have a model problem. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.205.0	Next, the words of the Education Councillor, Mr Josep González Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.206.0	Hey, nice late. Thank you, President. Deputy, MPs, MPs... Well, so, we have dyed, Mr. Riera, the occasion to share more than once our vision of the education system. I'd say it backwards, wouldn't I? For what he does to the education model: I think we have a lot of chords and some disagreements. We agree – 100_per_cent agree, we cannot agree more – that the priority of this Department of Education is to end the segregation of the education system. A segregation that's nothing but a social reflex of what's around us. But the school, it's obvious – and so much so! –, it has to work and it has to make this role of equalizer, to minimize these inequalities. And, therefore, we will continue to work so as to minimize and eliminate these inequalities in the education system in the shortest possible time. You were commenting on which model of school we share, weren't you? I think we share – and I'm not convinced, Mr. Riera – a free school model of segregation, free..., a fair school model, free of rapes, free of segregation – and so much so! – from any centre that discriminates for any reason and also those that discriminate by gender, those that discriminate by sex. And he made the claim that the current model is a model that is structurally segregated. On this path to free segregation, we agree – we agree – that we have made a path; but it is obvious – we have to tell ourselves, we have to recognize it – and we have a way to do it. And, therefore, this is the Government's will: to move forward in a structured, systematically and irremovably way towards an educational system that does not secrete, where there are no segregations. And basically, as I understand it, taking into account the current educational map – we currently have an educational map with a public offer of 70_per_cent and a 30_per_cent offer of concerted centres–, we have to work with the reality with which we find ourselves. And from here, this reality cannot be changed overnight, we must adapt ourselves, as it cannot be in any other way, to give answer, course, to the educational map we find ourselves. This year we've built a public center for us. This year we have fewer students in the education system and more teachers. This year we've made a change of center ownership. So let's move on. But our mission, as it cannot be otherwise, is to respond to these inequalities in the current educational map. I, listen, there are inequalities between public schools, between different public schools, some clean; there are inequalities between public and concert schools; there are inequalities between concert and public schools, and there are also inequalities between public and concert schools. Therefore, what we understand is that publicly funded centres, centres of the educational system of Catalonia, must share the same rules of play. And that means basically that they have to study the studentship of their educational area. And that means basically this distribution, equally sharing of the studentship in all publicly funded centres in an educational area. And that's the direction we're going. We have anti-segregation shock plans in some of the country's municipalities, which are working very well. What they do is, before they enter the education system... because one time you have the infant, the child, the child, the young person, the school or the institute is already there. Therefore, before entering the education system we must be able to identify the student with socio-economic needs, we must be able to identify the vulnerable student. And before entering the system, the same rules of play and balanced student distribution in all publicly funded centers. And that's what we're doing. And this is our path. And this is the way we are also working on the admission decree, the new educational programming from course 22-23 for all publicly funded centers, public schools and concerted schools. Leave me alone on the subject of data, because the truth, Mr. Riera... I will pass it the data, the current data and the actual data. I don't know if it's based on initial offer data, where, as you know, the Department of Education today what it does is a public offer planning. For what it does to the concerted offer, with the initial offer the department, by Spanish legislation, it has to go out with the offer of the concerts, regardless of whether they were arranged the previous year or not. And, therefore, I will give you today are the figures and data of the groups of course 21-22. And, therefore, with the offer of groups 21-22 what we have done is: to keep 3,200 students less in the Catalan education system, we have maintained the offer of groups of children 3, and what we have done is: not to segregate – because of the segregated over offer – we have reduced the capacities of these groups, and more than half of the groups of children 3 in the country have come out with at least 24, 23 and 22 innics. What we've done is keep this offer I3. As well as these 3,200 students, I said to them: we have practically kept the children's 3 offer quantitatively, and this has meant that there is..., that there is actually a reduction of a two_per_cent of groups to the children's 3 audience, and a set_per_cent to the concertada, a set_per_cent in relation to the real groups of the previous course. But it is that at the institute, at ESO, at the public school in all ESO we have grown in 154 groups and at the concerta they have lost thirteen. And these are the numbers of the group names in course 21-22. Here is another area that I consider to be relevant, which is the issue of the number of students per classroom. The number of students per classroom is so important..., it is also the number of students per teacher, the number of students per teacher, but here – and it is not an opinion, it is an objective fact – each time more in the Catalan education system we reduce this ratio« Number of children per teacher or « Number of young people per teacher at the Institutes – each time more we reduce it. And that's an objective fact, it's unthinkable. This time... there are more and more resources at the educational centres for each student present in an educational centre. In fact, this course – and this I consider very relevant – is childish, 3 percent of the time. I say so, because we are going to do it, and there is this idea of saying, "We have very full classes. In some places, it is very possible, but this also depends on the demographic situation that we are consolidating and the demographic situation that has varied. This year we have had fewer students in the schools; for the first time we have fewer students in the first year of ESO, and we have increased our student baccalaureate, and, above all, in this bet that we have made for the format cycles, we increase in eight thousand students of format cycles. And what I said to them – and I ended up –: for what makes children 3, a norma_per_cent of the groups of children 3 that there are in the country have fewer than twenty-five students, and for what makes first of ESO, a seventy_per_cent have fewer than thirty students. So, they're on their way. Thank you, as we continue to speak after your intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make your reply, Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.208.0	Thank you, President. Well, thank you, counselor, for your answer. I welcome the coincidences of objectives and reptiles that you wanted to identify as coincident, and therefore we need to talk about resources; we need to name it, we need to materialize all this so that we can do it. Miri, I insist with the numbers that we are hearing and that we have contrasted with the fonts and that we will have occasion, I hope, to contrast until finalizing them. The following numbers come to us, if we really want to guarantee an inclusive school in the least that the educational community understands that they are necessary and essential for such a truly inclusive school that it guarantees fairness and that it guarantees the fight against segregation, guaranteeing the proper ration and the necessary teaching and specialized staff. To us, they tell us the figures that we lack 4,392, from teachers, huh? , so that we can guarantee this inclusive school. The initial promise appears to be 3,200 contracts. Finally – according to our figures, I insist – they have fallen to 2,482, as in many cases the incorporation has been half-day. And, therefore, in summary we find 718 less than expected endowments and, finally – and subratlo this given because it seems to me very relevant – 1,908 less than they really would be needed to address the minimums of this inclusive school. Therefore, we should provide all these resources. Obviously, do not close any group of P3 and P4 public. Anger disconcerting those concerted places that are not occupied. Anar disconcerting concerts with Opus Dei's scores. Anger disconcerting the choices that secrete by sex, those that are elitist, those who want to contribute vocationally to segregation and do not want to include the combination of the diversities that exist in their territories. And, of course, all of this, taking advantage of the welcome demographics, would certainly help us to create this mark of positive discrimination in public school that we believe is essential as the strategy of public policies in order to meet these objectives that we have initially agreed that we share. And this could be extended, of course, to all the educational stages, to all the educational cycles, going through vocational training – we have not talked much, there has been much talk, it will continue to speak – so as not to go through situations such as the passing of the student and his families, which bet for the vocational training in this course, so as to guarantee a public place, free, accessible, in the required professional family, in a spatial and territorial proximity that does not involve an overstress or a cost, etc., and that does not leave us to 1,300 people who have stayed out of the game, who have remained, say, uprooted or displaced by this planning error and this, at last, managed insufficiently at the moment. In short, we're talking about the presupposition. The LEC marks the sis_per_cent; how at least we should arrive immediately at 4.7, which is the European average – as at least, huh? At least, I think this would be a more than desirable objective. And to finish – it will not give me time to address many other issues –, obviously – I believe that yes, here we will certainly agree very much – we must work hard to ensure that the Catalan language follows the vehicle language of our school, that it follows the common language between the different people and linguistic communities of the educational community of each school. And, therefore, this means strengthening the immersion system, but to work harder so that the Catalan language is a normalized language of social use at school and so as to stop the continuous attacks coming from sectors that they want to make disappear the immersion and linguistic normalization of the Catalan language. That seems very important to us. When I have talked about resources, I don't want to forget – and now I make quick inventories, because time is over –..., I don't want to forget our non-demand and proposal, our demand that, despite these oppositions that have occurred and that from our point of view were unnecessary and never had to produce, the Government guarantees the stability and the fixation of all the interes that were in the law and that, therefore, they have all the right of the world to achieve a fixed and guaranteed estabilité. And, lastly, counselor, we need a school that remains overly feminist, that remains overly anti-racist, that remains overly anti-feixist. And this has to be translated into curricula, educational programs – this has to be explained – and in teacher training. Here we have a very important repte. And finally, a democratic, truly participatory school. And, therefore, we give back the weight they have and must have in the educational community the school councils and the cloisters, and we run away from this vertical model that has been imposing, with lack of dialogue, communication and concertation. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.209.0	There's a word from the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.210.0	Thank you, President. Congressman Riera, all right! Let's tune up the numbers, huh? Because I'm worried that they're still so different, when the ones I've transferred to them are the real groups that are in the country's schools at this 21-22 course. You were talking about inclusive school. So let's talk inclusive school. The first thing I want to say to you when we talk about inclusive school is that we are fully aware that, despite the work done, we still have a way to get to a fully inclusive school, we are conscious. And, as we are aware, what we need to be the covers between all of us is to mark this goal from which we want to arrive, from what we need because the school is really inclusive. We will have an inclusive school when all the children, children, young people, all the students enrolled in all the schools in the country have all the resources necessary to accompany this schooling. And, therefore, this is the object and here it is where we are going. Now, we also have to say that the steps taken in the past years in inclusive school have been very important. Since the publication of the inclusive school decree, the year 2017, there has been an increase in the resources of inclusive education centres in an eighty-one_per_cent – and this is a fact: we have increased in an eighty-one_per_cent of inclusive education centres in an eighty-one_per_per_cent, and a twenty-i-set_per_per_cent increase in professional education services. And for what you're doing with this course... I'm going to give you some concrete examples of this advance that we're going to make, year after year, to give an answer to this fully inclusive school. Some concrete examples of this course 21-22 are that we have provided 284 new staff with inclusive education, both for teaching teachers in educational centres with professional education and accompanying staff; this course 21-22 is increased in a twenty-two per_cent investment in educational support monitors for students with NESE, students..., veterans; this course 21-22 will also have 182 new seats in shared school units. And so different concrete actions than what they do to us is to provide more resources for this inclusive school. At the end of October – and this was also expected – a proposal was approved in this Parliament. At the end of October, we also constituted the table for inclusive education, driven by the department, with all entities and the educational community. And, therefore, we are clear on what the objective is. This Parliament will create a study committee for inclusive school – welcome as well – and, therefore, we have clear who the objective is for where we want to go. We've kept the additional covid resources. And that's very important, huh? For course 21-22 we have kept all the additional resources for which he does professional, for which he does the plan of better educational opportunities, with 517 educational centers – this accompanying with concrete actions for vulnerable students and their families. And all these resources we're keeping for this 21-22 course. You gave the subject of vocational training. See, there's a moment for you to please, huh? Because I'll try to make sure we can actually share this plantation. Don't let anyone out of vocational training. All of us who want to attend vocational training have succeeded, with an exceptional response, in an increase in demands, that everyone who wants to study vocational training in the ordinary process has a place of vocational training. What we can neither guarantee nor guarantee is that student who makes a request in vocational training in a specific centre and only wants to go to that centre. To ensure that 100 per cent answers all requests in some studies that have to be given out to a working world and to a demand for the market..., so if there are thirty-five students in one group and there are thirty-three places, we will not create a group for those two students, and if you do not want to go to another centre you will not go there. Still, those 1,300 students a day are already less than a thousand, because we are doing this individualized follow-up to provide this orientation to these places. You said – very important –: "We will find ourselves there, resources are important. And so much so! The resources are very important. But we find ourselves here, we talk about assumptions, we talk about educational reversal, we talk about concrete issues. More resources for education, and so much so! And then – and I finish –, curriculum theme, vocational training. Here's a match. Let's move from the government to a more democratic school – and so much so! – more social, more green, more feminist and Catalan. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.211.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the 2021-2022 school year]] [[300-00047/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the school year 2021-2022, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.212.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors, workers and workers of the house, thank you for being here this late. Normally, questions after votes do not get used to being generally reeixid, in the sense that they do not get used to being Members. But as in this legislature we are fifty percent and we have many gains to be in the plenary, so I am grateful that in this inquiry there is practically the totality of the hemicicle allowed in this room. And second, allow me a plea, but these things, sometimes, even though this Parliament deserves the utmost rigour, and for this reason we are here, to give it the utmost rigour, I want to thank Congressman Jordan for his good dress, with this American fantasy he wears, which is exactly like my own. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, now, let's get into the matter. Counselor, after the Riera company has been in the lobby and has carried out all his questions and that..., after you came to compare, at your own request, to the Education Commission and that we had the opportunity to debate in depth over the whole field of the course guide, we also believed that it was opportune, too, to make a series of questions so as to deepen much more in those questions that may be, and some weeks have passed since the course guide, so now it is up to date. And, therefore, one of the important elements that I believe will be key to this 21-22 course is, precisely, emotional management. Our infants, our teenagers..., just two days ago, a UNICEF report was published. It was stated, one fact was highlighted that I believe that we should not only reflect on society, but that we should take action, we should take action..., to bring solutions to this problem: « One child or adolescents between gods and dinosaurs worldwide – one child or adolescents worldwide– « has a problem of mental health diagnosed – one child or adolescents worldwide. This time it got worse, and a lot, from the pandemic. So, I think it's important that we focus, too, from educational action... from our own social action, take into account these parameters, these data, and give it the turn. And here it is important, because, you, counselor, when you appeared to the committee, it made it very clear: emotional management in our classrooms; emotional management and formation of our teachers; emotional management in the entire educational community. You're transcendental. And that we face the problem of mental salvation face to face, firmly, with conviction and always with optimism, because we will win this chess. And precisely here the role of inclusive school is relevant. And I'm not going to go into depth, because Congressman Riera has done it before with this question, but it is true and we share, in effect, also, in the same line that the Councillor has put forward, that we must go forward, and surely do it at a much higher rate, to an inclusive school of truth. And, therefore, our country, too, to fight this, must be a country that does not secret. And here, too, we Members and Members have a lot to say, because certain speeches that there are in this faristol are shameful; certain speeches that there are in this faristol that I hate shame – shame. And, therefore, it is also important that we say so, because this is also a clear form of social segregation. And that also marks a social clix. And this also marks social archetypes that we finally see reflected in our classrooms. I, therefore, zero tolerance against discrimination, against fascism, against racism. That's right. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, before this paradigm, policies; and policies from the left; policies that place the student in the center, that place the educational centers in the center of the solution and not in the center of the problem. And so, too, when we talk about inclusive school we are also forced to talk about infrastructure, that every time we have schools in our country, that every time we have better and better equipped spaces to give the best training to our students. And when we talk about infrastructure we also have to talk about working conditions, and that, therefore, our faculty – our faculty –, our teachers, have some excellent working conditions, have the necessary security to finish their pocket and also have this social support. In this sense, we are not fully convinced. And we are also convinced that all these measures are reflected in the very premise of the Generality, because, in the end and in the end, it must be a presumption, comrade Riera..., that I am convinced that we will count on their support, because in educational matters I am convinced that there will be things that will please them very much, and I, from another side, why deny it, too. And, lastly, I wanted to join the FP, vocational training, which is one of the areas where... we certainly haven't talked much more during this entire beginning of the course, a vocational training where some of the figures have come out that I also want to talk about. First, remember the youthful trembling. The data from the Idescat of the second quarter show that in Catalonia 33,52_percent of young people in our country are at a standstill; between the ages of seven to twenty-four years, I want to point this out, because if we increase it with the number of young people who exceed twenty-four years, still this increase. In the case of the Spanish State it is 38,38_per_cent. Therefore, data is still much worse in the State than we have in our country. I insist: from seven to twenty-four years. In the face of a youthful situation with these data and with these figures, before the situation of pandemic and insecurity generated by the ERTOs, before the real possibility that the ERTOs are converted into EROs and, therefore, of real possibilities of co-occurrence, there has been an activation; an activation that has put a lot in value so long ago that we are struggling to give it real merit and value, which is the professional formation of our country: an increment in medium-sized cycles of the twenty-three_per_cent; an increase in higher-grade cycles of the diset_per_cent. Do you know what the average of pre-registration increments in format cycles in our country has been during all previous years? Two per cent. Therefore, we have passed in a few months from a middle of two per cent to a middle of twenty-three and the middle of the middle of the middle of twenty-three and the middle of the middle of the middle. And, in effect, thanks to a hot plate activated, counselor – and I will like to see you delve into this issue – for the department, we have now fewer than a thousand students who are in a position to decide which format cycle they will want to run based on what you have passed. Perhaps we should remember that the xifra exceeded, and by far, fourteen thousand students. Therefore, during these months, the Department of Education has set up itself, and has set up itself strongly, and I think it is important that the work that has been done also be explained. Because it is also very relevant, because when we talk about vocational training we are also talking about not only the future of young people and young people in our country, we also need to focus vocational training on an opportunity of new professional accreditation of adult people who, unfortunately, see how there is an industrial transformation or of their labour sector and who need new training to fit in with the 21st century; because when we talk about vocational training we also need to take a lot and a lot into account that it is a great opportunity to find work, because there is a higher level of employment, and when we talk about vocational training, we have to do with all the pride and dignity, because we believe it and because we are convinced, to advise, that this will be the form of the law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.213.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then there's the word the Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.214.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Albert, Members, Members... Well, thank this inquiry, because it's always a pleasure to talk about education in this chamber and share different themes, and so we also dig deeper into the fact that we exchange impressions and learn from each other. He was commenting... he started on the subject of emotional education. For what he does to emotional education, with the Health Department, through the Health and School program, we already deployed different projects that worked well, worked very well, hindered in the educational centers and were successful. Now, now there's not enough; now there's not enough with these programs. Why? Because the pandemic has changed many things for us, and some of the things that have changed for us is that it has created situations for us that we have never experienced before, that it has created situations for us in which the student..., also the teacher – also the teacher – but the student requires more emotional skills for these adaptations to the change and for this adaptation to many non-vicud situations, and with a new scene and a new panorama that leaves us with the pandemic. And so what we've done since the Department of Education for this 21-22 course is detect and act. It's very important, always..., it's always very important to detect, it's always very important to detect as soon as possible, and it's always very important to have the best information to make the best diagnoses, and to make the best X-rays, and to make the best status for such that, from all the information available, you make the best decisions. And, therefore, what we will do with the Department of Health is to pass questions of emotional salvation to all the students of the education system starting from the fifth of primary – fifth, sixth of primary, ESO, baccalaureate and professional training. And so, beyond perceptions, beyond impressions... When I visit educational centres, schools and institutes, this is an issue that always arises – always arises. They always tell us: "We need more tools, we need more support for this emotional support. So, beyond perceptions, we'll have an emotional thermometer of how we have our infants and our young. Finding Points at Institutes in the Teenage Stage – Finding Points. With a project that makes us very illusory, because it's a project that will make teenagers have their space; between them, and also those they want, directly. And they'll have a space where, through an artificial intelligence app, what we're going to do is this detection of situations in the different institutes in the country, so that, then, we can adapt the best possible actions. And he said "detection," but we're going straight to action. For this course 2021-22 we have hired one hundred more professionals for this emotional follow-up to the most vulnerable student: psychologists, pedagogues and psychopedagogues. More and better training – and so much so! – both for the student as, especially in this case, for our professionals, to make this follow-up and equip them with tools. And if I may, also focus and that the look of the counselors we have present to all the institutes in the country is also directed at this emotional follow-up of the student. I liked how you connected the inclusive school theme to the infrastructure theme. I am extending the answer a little; in any case, I justify why I liked it. We have to do what we need to do at the student service and be next to the teachers and the faculty. "At the service of the student, it means that all the decisions we make in the Catalan education system must have an impact in the classroom, must have an impact on this better education of our children. At the side of the faculty I want to say that we must be able to equip them with the best possible tools, so that in one classroom, in the 72,000 classrooms of the country – 72,000 –, they do the best they can do, with all the tools, maximum available tools. Therefore, resources are obviously needed, but if I may, many times are not enough. We've got to be headlines to transform us. We must be able to truly transform the Catalan education system into a learning system that truly equips our students with the best tools and the best significant skills, so that they can make the best decisions in their lives. Skills that go from knowledge – and so much so! – but also skills that were about how to do things, how to live, how to live, how to live and how to interpret emotionally the situations that you will face every day in a society that changes more and in a society that demands more and more. And this educational transformation has to be structured, it has to be scalable, an educational transformation that..., equivalence of educational centers, that reaches all educational centers in the country. An educational transformation based on evidence, based on which we know it works. And above all, very important, an educational transformation that can be valued for learning to the extent that we are on the way. And for the Republicans, for this government, educational transformation and equity, educational transformation and inclusive school are two people of the same coin. He commented on the subject of vocational training. Welcome to talk to him again, he's fine. I'm not tired of talking about vocational training and I'm not tired of trying to explain what really happened. What has really happened is that we are ahead of a country's success; that there are so many requests for vocational training is a country's success. And, therefore, this is and will be the legislature of vocational training. And before a country success, like what we have to do is give answers to our words, what the Education Department has done is: this course 21-22 will have fewer demands than the two, three, four, five years later, that would not enter into a requested option. There will be many fewer, and still have a 23 per cent increase in requests. And that's what we've done with different ways: increasing seats there where there was a supply needed to be able to increase the seats... the one I gave him before, huh? , in a hasty and quick way, but now it allows us, this inquiry, the possibility to translate it in a more paused way, which is: we are before studies that must give answer to a labor market. Therefore, one of the challenges is to balance the offer, balance demand with the needs of the labour market. And so, in a very transparent way, in a very honest way, in a very clear way, as I will always do, I said to them: « Today there are 1,321, I would say – 1,320 and I hope – students who have asked for an option, who do not have a place in that option, that the vocational training system has four thousand vacancies – for these 1,300 have 4,000 vacancies – and that we will call person to person to guide them and to say: « You have asked for this cycle. At the people's side you have a place with the same professional family you asked for. And one week later... today, in fact, it's different, so, nine days later, 350 students of these 1,300 are enrolled in vocational training. Therefore, we are already less than a thousand of the 26,000; that still someone is going to give this cup; that still someone is going to say that there are more than twenty-thousand students who have not had a place. It's not true. Don't say it any more, please, because that's not true. Or, anyway, if you say so, you know it's not true. Therefore, before a repte, we give an answer. And what's more important: in education there is always room for improvement – always. Who doesn't want reptes that isn't dedicated to education. They can always do better things. And, therefore, they recognize that we cannot do what we did this year, with an extraordinary process that generates concern for families, which generates concern for the students – we recognize it, and so much so! –, what we do is: concrete proposals for improvement for the coming course; we advance the pre-registration calendar for the coming course; we guarantee that all the students of ESO quarter will be placed in a formatary cycle of their professional family, of the professional family they soliciti – of the 48,000 requests of this year 24,000 come from a quarter of ESO and, therefore, this student will be placed in one of the professional families that trii – and after that we obviously improve the orientation and the offer. I've got a minute. I don't know if I have time... I wanted to make a simile – I wanted to make a simile. We, with inclusive school, need to be able to... If we imagine that every one of our infants, of our young, has to make the top and to push a mountain, and we imagine that this accompanying and personal growth is the push, and after the resources of the education system is this accompanying because you do it, we find that there are students who will quickly begin to push and reach the top; we find other students who are half of the push are to stop because they need to paint the landscape; we find other students who are half of the push are to stop, because they need to help the company they have been working with, and we find hundreds of other students who are half of the push. Therefore, Catalan education system: we have to do mountains; we have to learn that, regardless of your learning rhythm, you do a meaningful competitive learning. And our school, the Catalan school, has to adapt to every one of our students. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.215.0	Thank you very much. [[Question to the Government on the taxation of Catalonia]] [[300-00044/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about taxation in Catalonia ; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, and has the word of Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.216.0	Thank you very much, President. Members who I am still here... Counsellor, we are at the door of the presentation of some presuppositions, the first presuppositions for you, that I am convinced that we will be able to overcome together, because I am convinced that there will be a majority in this Parliament that we will agree to complete an objective, and that is to have presuppositions to make the transformation that Catalonia needs with a new model of country. President Aragonès has told us several times – in his investiture speech he began to say – that he thinks of a transformation..., in four transformations, in fact: the green transformation, the democratic transformation, the feminist transformation and the social transformation. We also like to talk, from Junts to Catalunya, about economic transformation, about territorial transformation and, why not, about transformation at international level. Economics, because we think that Catalonia has to become a country that goes to the knowledge society, that puts talent in value, puts science, innovation, technology in value. I think that's what most of us would agree on. Also because we think that our country has to go to a fully-occupied society. Now we've talked a lot about vocational training, which is what must help us generate a full occupation, but let's never tell our entrepreneurs that they have a problem, and they don't find qualified personnel. So, I'm very pleased, counselor, that we put the direct in the professional formation, because it's the way to marry this demand we have on the market with the offer. Therefore, this transformation is also very important under our point of view. At the territorial level, because we imagine ourselves a more balanced country, a country in which there is life within the territory and there are places of work, generation of wealth, places in the territory, which is not basically concentrated in the metropolitan area. And I also said at the international level, because we think of a Catalonia that is more open to the world, not only with a more international enterprise, but also with a full nation, a Catalan nation that can treat you with the different nations of the world. Therefore, all these are key aspects of these transformations, that in order to get them we will need some assumptions, and not just 2022; we will need some assumptions in the next few years, because this is a long job and, therefore, we must start thinking more than 22, in the assumptions of the next few years. And one of the key aspects for us, counselor, is taxation. And today we want to ask directly about taxation: what is the taxation that you have in mind for Catalonia on these assumptions. I insist, beyond these assumptions, that is, in this legislature. And finally, mentally, we have to start thinking about the independent state, which taxation we would like to have in an independent state. Because the president has also told us – and I think he has said it two times in his parliamentary office – that he has come to culminate in independence. And we are very happy to be able to help you and accompany you because this is a reality. So, that means we're talking two, three, four years ago, having an independent state. So we have to start thinking what we'll do when we have a state, what taxation, what kind of assumptions. And we have to start moving on where we can now. It'll be a little bit, because it's not the same as having a state that doesn't have it, but all we can do is start moving towards this new independent state mindset. Who's the prosecution we want? Home, I'm sure... this will explain it to us, counselor, but I'm sure it'll go through a fairer tax. In short, for the taxes we pay, we get, therefore, more service or benefit or more infrastructure. Or the other way around, we pay less to keep what we have now. Because, in short, we all know that we have a tax deficit of EUR 18,000 million, as you have informed us, with up-to-date data, and that I will not tire of saying that this accounts for forty-two per cent of all taxes paid by Catalans. Just go to the website of the Catalan Tax Agency to see that the year 2019 and 2018 we paid, the Catalans, to the Spanish tax agency 43,000_million euros. So these divides represent forty-two per cent of all the taxes we pay, that go in and don't come back, and, therefore, we can't use them. And, on the other hand, that's what it's all about, and paying high taxes if we compare it to other autonomous communities, at the time of getting resources at infrastructure level, we all know that we have a clear infrastructure deficit; not yet, it's been a few years. Or, for example, at the time of making a presupposition in education, which is a subject that for us is very important – this late has been talked about strength –, so it turns out that Catalonia invests 4,736_euros per student when the State does not invest 5,200; that is, a deu_per_cent more. Or the five founding states of the European Union invest more than eight thousand euros in student education. Or Finland – a country, certainly independent – that invests 10,075_euro per year per student in education. Certainly, Finland invests twice as much as we invest in Spain, but it has a GDP per capita that is twice as much as we have in Spain. And that's a consequence, huh? It's a direct cause-effect. For this reason, we want a knowledge society and we want much more expenditure dedicated to education or training. The question we ask ourselves is: Can Catalonia now have the taxes that some autonomous communities have with much lower types, for example, in the IRPF or in estates? We'd love to, but we couldn't. The answer is no. Why? Because this would represent reducing the revenue for Catalonia by about 3,000_million euros, and therefore this would practically affect the deu_per_cent of all the Generality's assumptions. Therefore, we cannot reduce taxes as we have done in other autonomous communities, because we have a tax abuse that we all know and that has been there for a long time. In any case, even so, the day we have a state... we can't just cut those 3,000_million euros, but we can do a lot more, things. Or spend a lot more money on the presupposition, huh? It's not all about tax cuts. But we could sort, we could reduce taxes or push, let's say, the resources for the welfare of our society. Finally, we could get to reducing the corporation tax, this forty-two per cent we said, huh? Imagine that we're reducing it. What do you mean? That instead of having a twenty-i-five_per_cent we have now, we could have a fifteen_per_cent corporation tax on businesses. And what would that have to do with it? So, man, for one band, our peas would have been less fiscal, they could reinvest their business more, grow more, be more competitive and, therefore, generate more jobs. I, therefore, would be good for the country. Or surely this would make a cry of foreign entrepreneurs who would come to implant themselves in Catalonia; that there are those who have implanted themselves, from three to nine thousand in these last two years. But we could still have more if we had a kind of 15 percent corporation tax instead of the 20-and-five. By the way, Ireland did this a few decades ago, I already have a time to remember. When I was young I said that the Cua of Europe was Greece, Portugal, Ireland, Spain. These three are still, Ireland is now one of the countries with the most GDP per capita in Europe and, in change, we are following the lowest. And why did they do it? So why have they lowered the type of corporation tax to twelve and a half percent and that's what made many businesses going on there, tech companies, and generating an economy that's been very good to them. It is true that Ireland, another independent country, has three times the GDP per capita of the Spanish State. And he basically got it with that. In thirty years, this was one of the key factors. I'm not saying that Catalonia needs to be like Ireland, but when you have fiscal sovereignty, you can do this kind of policy, whereas when you don't, obviously you can't. Well... Therefore, an independent state is the one that will allow us to make those policies that wander in line with the model of country that we want. And, at the economic level, what would we like from Junts' point of view for Catalonia? So we're going to want a Nordic country in southern Europe, where the six-per-cent is reversed in place of 3.7_per_cent in education, where the second-cycle FP reaches 40-per-cent in place of thirty-sis_per_cent, where the dual mode of the FP is forty-per-cent in place of twenty-per-cent, where the reversal in search and development is three or four_per-cent in place of u and mig per cent. We could do all this if we were an independent state and we didn't have that tax deficit. But obviously now they can't. Well, I'm done, counselor. What while... this while, while we're not a state, what we think is that we have to do more pedagogy of who are the repercussions of not having a state respect to hold it. And in this we think that I need to explain that this situation is very unfair, but I need to visualize it, so that people can visualize how this affects her buttock. And in concrete terms we ask you, counselor, that as soon as you can, you prepare an alternate assumption of a Catalonia without fiscal deficit, because this will allow us to really see how our butts affect..., or it could affect the butts of our fellow citizens and how we could have better welfare for all of us, for all of our society. For another band, too, we could start preparing for the trading of assets and liabilities with the State, because all independence processes end with an trading of assets and liabilities. So, what's to happen to the past of the State with Catalonia? So the fiscal deficit accumulated for many years. And above all, a concept that we also think is very important, that is historical debt in infrastructure. That we pose on the table what is the historical debt in infrastructures that the State gives us and that the day that we finally separate will have to pay one way or another. With all this, counselor, we would like you to explain to us what the general lines of the premise will be for this 2022 and, if possible, with a view to a future a little longer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.217.0	Thank you very much. To answer the question, has the word Jaume Giró, Conseller d'Economia e Hisenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.218.0	Very honorable President, Mr Canadell, Members of Parliament... Today, indeed, Mr Canadell, dear fellow Members of Parliament, today we Catalans have a number of heavyweights working at the same time. The memorial of heavyweights, written by Valentí Almirall and presented the year 1885 to King Alfonso XII, to the besavi of the emeritus, would be today, dissociated, longer and more punishing. We have people prosecuted in court to defend their ideas and to try hard to finish the programs of parties that are perfectly legal, such as Junts, Esquerra or the CUP; that they are persecuted in court, as I say, among them, people who have been or are still today in these escons or in this Bureau of Parliament. We still have police violence on the retina against citizens to want to exercise a basic democratic right: put a vote to a ballot box. We suffer the economic persecution of former senior officials and public servants of the Generality to make the planned action in the State as external action. Catalan language and culture – they have seen it recently – are discriminated against and subject to state law. The country is tearing us apart for an unforgivable leave of the State at the time of investing in our infrastructures and transport routes. And on the three matches of the Spanish right, they turned on insults and threatened to arrest President Puigdemont. But of all the hardships we suffer – of all – there is one that is the bloodiest for the well-being and progress of all Catalans. It affects all the citizens who live in Catalonia, all of them, they have the ideas that they have, they vote to whom they vote and they have the level of income that they have. That weight is the fiscal deficit. According to the latest estimates updated in a mathematical study, for the year 2020..., because, as you know, since the year 2015-2016 they don't give us the data to be able to make the calculation directly, despite the fact that in July I made the last letter I sent requesting them. According to the latest estimates are, as Mr Canadell said, 18,000_millions a year, a xifra representing 2,400_euros per city. Seeing how the State approaches every year on one side of the wealth that we generate in Catalonia should make all the members of the chamber react. I am here, as you know, in the name of a government that aspires to an independent Catalonia and that consolidates the state of welfare, that serves public good and quality, that fights for social justice and that helps to correct inequalities and promote the activity of enterprises, the productive economy and the creation of employment. But what I'm talking about today affects us all. I'll give them some data. Catalonia suffers, as everyone knows, from a chronic and structural underfunding derived from an unjust and expired financing model. Catalonia is the third most important community – the third – and, therefore..., and the one with the greatest fiscal capacity. When we look at what I get once applied the financing system and taking into account the cost of living, Catalonia, from this third, does not go to the fourth, the fifth, the sisena or the seven. Catalonia passes to the fourteen position – to the fourteen –, respect to the one it brings, respect to the one it rep. As of 2018, each català contributed 2,967 euros and 2,394 euros, a lot of the communities that are in the first positions and that are in 3,750 euros per inhabitant. So – these are not just figures – to finance public services, Catalonia has 1,356 euros per inhabitant less than other communities in the State. This fact, together with the shortage of investments, makes Catalonia's citizens less equipped with public services as we would deserve and bear a higher tax burden than we would have. It's a lot about fiscal pressure, and more so now that we're making assumptions. The financial insufficiency of the system, of the model, is what led in the last twenty years to the need to increase the tax burden in Catalonia in order to be able to provide the same services that are available to other communities. Some Members of Parliament may not share this view. It is perfectly legitimate and, as you know, I have absolute respect for any of the positions represented here. But I find it difficult to hear that they feel comfortable with the situation of fiscal deficit that we suffer or that they give up with so much ease to dispose of additional 2,400_euros for each city of the country, think what you think, vote what you vote. The assumption of the Generalitat de Catalunya is 36,000_million euros in the joint venture of the public sector. This represents that the Government manages resources equivalent to €4,800_per capita. If we had a balanced fiscal balance, we would move from this €4,800 to €7,200 per city and year. The difference, as you see, is not a small difference. Imagine the amount of services and infrastructure that the country could provide with an additional €18,000_million each year. Mr Canadell also referred to the assumption that we are preparing and at this point in the negotiation phase for the year 22. Look, we already explained when they asked me, and everyone who wanted to hear it already understood, but I'll say it again: the fiscal pressure in Catalonia is not expecting us to increase the year you see. In the assumptions of the 22nd year, it is not expected that the fiscal pressure will increase – neither property taxes nor taxes will be raised to family businesses – beyond the implementation, which is indeed planned and which we will do, of the taxes that derive from the climate change law. And sooner the contrary, this council and this government will work to help and facilitate the activity and momentum of all businesses, and especially small and medium-sized ones, as they are of occupation, of progress, of cohesion and of country model. Catalonia is, beyond other considerations, a country of small and medium-sized enterprises, of thousands of entrepreneurs who rise up every day and start their business. In this room, opposition groups complain about us, one day and another, that we talk about the things that really interest the citizen, asking us to deal with the real problems of the people. Sometimes I've heard you say, at last, that we dedicate ourselves a little more to the things of eating and that we forget about reference and full sovereignty of the country. They say it as if it were different or incompatible things. Well, precisely because we're concerned about people's real problems, that's why we can't forget about these aspirations. We cannot help but think that the Spanish territorial model is today profoundly unfair and that all the citizens of Catalonia, think what they think, will be much better when we follow a new state of the European Union. Finally, I will tell you that, besides, I agree with those who believe that taxes are important and that they are necessary. In fact, taxes are the main instrument at the disposal of governments for political action. And politics should not be anything but an attempt to promote and improve the welfare of citizens, especially those who suffer the most. In this sense we will work, Mr Canadell, Members and Members, in the own assumptions and in all those negotiations that we can make with the State to improve this situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-06-1402.219.0	So thank you very much. As there will be no reply, we arrive at the end of the session. We'll suspend her till tomorrow morning at nine. Thank you very much.
