ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.1.0	Good morning. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the government's debt to the local world]] [[302-00049/13]] Let us resume the session with the fifteenth item of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about the government's debt to the local world, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. You have the word, to make the young lady's presentation, Mrs. Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.2.0	Good morning. Members, Members, Councillor... This motion that we present today has a double objective: to make known the debt that the Generalitat has with the assemblies– and, obviously, to pay this debt–, and, according to the object, to pay special attention to the area of social welfare and to require the Generalitat to comply with the law of social services, which I said – and I have already commented explicitly – that the contribution of the Generalitat in this matter cannot be inferior in any case to the sixty-six per cent of the cost of the teams of the basic services, which today does not happen. That's why in this motion we highlight aspects as necessary as the program contract. Miri, I think it's sad... I think it's sad that we have to make an inquiry to demand that the generality complete the law. But not the state law, no, no, no...; the Catalan law, approved in this Parliament. And, therefore, today we may give ourselves up for satisfaction if this young man serves because the Generality makes its commitments, its obligations, that will allow the gatherings to breathe a little more. And that is why we need, as I said, to sign a new programme contract for the period 2022-2025, which remains in force from the 1st generation of the 22nd and which is precisely suited to the current needs detected and to its corresponding funding. Moreover, it will be useful to inform the meetings of the dates on which this programme contract is planned, which should be, in order to be well, before 31 December 2021. And, therefore, there is only a little time, a very little time, only a_me and an_escape, to resolve this situation. I, Members and Members, need to update the service portfolio and the development of the regulation, so that it can adapt, and provide for economic spending in a more appropriate and appropriate way. In the new assumptions presented by the Government of the Generality, the departure of the programme contract is considerably increased. And we asked for a 70-million game, and it looks like that's what it's gonna be. I therefore understand that there will be no problem in approving this point of the motion. We also claim that the Generalitat leads and is able to coordinate, collaborate and do this real co-government with the local world, and mark the immediate payment schedule of the Generalitat's accumulated debt with the various municipalities, obviously. This debt, which, with data from 2020– already commented – is up to 173_million euros. We also want to pay special attention and ask for an increase in the price/hour of home care services. And, given the negotiations we've maintained these days with the papers, it seems that the government doesn't want to make a new foundation of cooperation; it doesn't want to make an additional foundation, apart from what already exists. Because we consider that what is expected at this time is insufficient, and therefore we need one extra. If the government permits me to do so, they must draw up and approve it in this legislature – not in another one, no; in this legislature – a proposal for a law of governments and local finance, as established by the Statute of Autonomy. I know we think they might be independent, but for now we have the Statute of Autonomy. Therefore, I have simply limited myself, in this young man, to exposing what passes, what passes to reality. Here we have deputies and deputies who are registrars, registrars, mayors, mayors, and what we claim today in this young man is simply that he is paying what is god. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.3.0	He has the word now, to present the defenses, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr David Saldoni.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.4.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... certainly in this young lady, MP, we're talking about reality in the local world. In the local world, through such an area of direct attention to people as the programme contract, which we all know, is a..., is the inter-institutional relationship, in this case, between the Government of the Generality and the gatherings of more than twenty thousand inhabitants and the local councils, which develop, in this case, all policies related to welfare and others that have included in different files of the programme contract. This program contract, at this time, is in a very good line, because we must emphasize that, in addition to the relationship between the Government of the Generality and the joint ventures, there are also, in this case, the municipalist entities. The Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and the Catalan Association of Municipalities at this time are negotiating – and is in good use – the drafting, the realization of the contract program for the year 20-25, for these own four years. And, of course, this program contract increases. It increases, therefore, around these 70_millions. Therefore, with the aim and with the proposal made by the Socialist MEP, we accept it. And, therefore, with these transactions that we have done, I think we have reached a point where what we do is to achieve this cooperation between the government and the assemblies that has worked so well and that certainly needs to be improved. Obviously, the import band of the program contract has other themes. We have uplifting fears, such as the deployment of the law's rules, that the law's rules, therefore, hold it pending. And it's one of the demands that we have to put all our folds, be able to deploy it, and it's the compromise that we can do. Just like the social service portfolio, which needs to be reviewed. Because we all know that workers and social workers... all the people who work in the social sphere what it takes when people are able to turn around and to the leash, to the shelf, to find solutions for people who come to see you. And that's the social service portfolio. Therefore, this portfolio of social services must be able to serve to update it. And the compromise of all folds is that we can do it now, starting work this year 2022. This young man... and we've also given several points. One that relates, as we say, to the price/time of social services in home care. All people who work at SAD, in this case, therefore, see that, progressively..., in their own exercises, they see how the price/hour increases until they reach the euro within the maximum term of four years. But I would also like to highlight another point, which is also mentioned, which is the strategic area of social services. A strategic plan that, in this case, also emerges from the lows, from the joint work of the assemblies, through the municipalist entities, in order to be able to boost this strategic plan, which is also developing. Therefore, all this package does is behave a better, a realization of this work that is going through the municipalist entities and the assemblies of our country. In addition, this young man also has a few other points, and points that make reference, in this case, to the Local Cooperation Fund, that I am convinced that the Councillor of the Presidency – here, too – would agree with everyone that we wanted to be much bigger and that there could be a lot of resources and that we could grow more. But, obviously, the presuppositional reality that at these times is in process must be able to mark it. But we must also highlight, in this case, the increase in the Local Cooperation Fund, with more than EUR 7 million, and, therefore, the work that is going on here. And, therefore, this is the will we have all folded, to be able to improve the relationship with the local world, because we believe that it has truly been the foundational pillar at the time of being able to endure – and we have seen it in the last few months – a moment as crucial as a pandemic. The social workers, in this case, have made a spectacular leap of work and attention, which we have to get down to because the group of professionals can work on the conditions they deserve. And, therefore, here too, I would like to thank Councilwoman Cervera for the effort she has made from the department so that she can make these increments to speed up, also, the negotiation with the municipal authorities and to have this open way to improve the contract program through the drafting of the regulation and the increase of the portfolio of social services. And, as we have agreed in most of the papers, we have been able to deal with them, so in most points we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.5.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word, to defend the papers, the deputy Ms.Jordina Freixanet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.6.0	Good morning, President. MPs, MPs... today we meet with the Socialist Party's motion about the government's debt to the local world. Before anything else, say that it is very good that they defend the local world and that they are old enough for this to have a good financing, but where you put in words, we, the Republican Left, put in facts. Done as when all Republicans refused to pass their novels to the State, a hidden confiscation maneuver of the councilhouses and the perpetuation of austerity and the re-centralization of resources proposed for their party to the Spanish government. All of Esquerra's municipal governments opposed it head-on. We cannot always be demanding with the Generality and indulgences, at the same time, with the State in a matter as fit as local finance. Facts, too, such as the reduction of the generality's debt with the joints. The year 2015 was 622,23_million euros, and the year 2018 was 76,06. Or facts like the long claim of the joints of a change in the formula of the plusvula. The Spanish government did nothing to establish an acceptable formula of calculation in a tax, the most vulnerable, touched by death, and still have sensations and complaints of the assemblies. How'd it go? So, since October 26, I've been suspensing for the Constitutional Court and hoping to have a new law. Give solutions, too, we retain our skills. Therefore, we continue to defend the assemblies as a key piece in order to continue to overcome the social, economic and health crises that we have had to overcome since 2008; local sovereignty and decentralisation to help our fellow citizens. Entering the station, tell them that I thought it would be a little easier to make a common municipal amp front. And that is why we have submitted a follow-up to them, to which I will refer below, which will allow us to vote in favour of eight of the points contained in it, and against two and one point, which they have agreed with Ciutadans, which quotes for a reason that this same Ple rejected fifteen days ago. Concretely, in each point, in the agreements, in the papers presented..., it can be divided into two large groups: the first, in social terms, and the second, in strictly economic terms. For what he does in social terms..., I don't want to end up with what Congressman Saldoni has said: contract program – we are working on a new contract program from 22 to 25 –, review and update the portfolio of services. We also agree with you to comply with the financial commitments set out in Law 12/2017, and to do so jointly with all of the municipalities. As you've seen, we're completing the commitments, and the add-ons polemize the text and adapt it to the data. They'll allow me to sit on the bridge of the city, because I think it's an obligation for everyone to recover the institutional level of the chamber. And that's what we do using an adjunct language, avoiding xenophobic expressions – that many times some of us Members have too much used to – as well as avoiding personal groller allusions, but also, and essentially, all of us Members and Curiosities with the data and with the terminology we use. At least that's how we work in all the municipalities of Catalonia: rigour, responsibility and exemplary. We cannot vote in favour of this point, because it feeds the fallacy of a city debt that neither is a real debt nor is it a city. We can agree on the fund, on reviewing the impropie skills, on the resources we have, on the legal limitations, on the financing, but we cannot talk about a citizen's debt being asked to pay immediately when we don't even know the quantities. We plan to look at the future and establish a collaborative_framework, because the municipalities, all of us, need greater compromise and greater funding. At the same time, they will allow me to remember that it is essential that, in order to fully deploy all these funds and to be able to extend the resources, it is necessary to require the immediate repeal of the LRSAL to the Government of the Spanish State. And here, gentlemen of the PSC, I return to tell you and to remind you that there is an important paper, and we are very late. In this sense, we will also vote against the eighth point, which they have negotiated with Ciutadans, because you are asking for a new additional foundation, when we have sent them up to three different proposals of text to improve the current one, to provide it with greater resources and, if necessary, to revise the criteria. And, therefore, ours is not an ephemeral proposal that is added one year, but that it has the will to become a structural work done together with all and each of the municipalities. A transaction, moreover, that includes us by the back door – an extra point, as I said – of a motion referring to zero-three, when yesterday the president himself reminded them in this one of the compromise of the gratuity of zero-three. In short, the Government of the Generalitat does its work at the side of the people, at the side of the assemblies. And we know that there's not enough, that everyone has their responsibilities, so does the State. Therefore, they ask them to stop using the joints to create problems with the Generality and solve what is in the hands of the State, which is a lot and has been done very little. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.7.0	And, finally, in this point of defense of the papers presented has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.8.0	MPs, MPs, President, Councillor... It's also bad luck, you have to talk after Republican Left and Junts for the Yes..., Junts for Catalonia – I'm sorry –, or Junts for the Yes, it's the same, or « Junts for the No, in this case, because I've been told no to the two points we've dealt with the PSC. It's bad luck, too. I think the social situation in Catalonia is dramatic. And that's not what I'm saying, as I said – since the Social Rights Counselor is here –..., the same Counselor has said, and we have said it, and I think there is a general consensus that it is. And I think that the gatherings, during, obviously, the pandemic – and they have always done so, they also did so in the crisis of 2009 and 2010 – have been the first barrier and the first freeze before this crisis, above all the social crisis. They were the first to deal with any of the problems that caused a crisis that was especially painful, it was especially hard – in this special case, because we had never experienced it – as the pandemic has been. But I think that the assemblies have done, in part, and above all because of the reality of confinement that there was to a small territory and where we had many times to deal with various and very difficult realities..., so they have followed those who have had to stop problems that, disarrayedly, the autonomous communities and the Government, the Government of Spain, have not known or could not stop. And I think these two motions, the one we're doing now and the one we're doing next, or that the Republican Group has presented afterwards..., I think that somehow they should be, therefore, a formula of defense or recognition of this work. And I don't think this has just been done. The PSC – and he said so – presented a motion with two objectives – and I think it is true –: one is the payment of the debt, and the other, therefore, to ask that it is complexi, simply, what has been approved in this Parliament, which is that it is complexi with the social protection of the citizens of Catalonia at the local level. We have to say that we will support these proposals, practically all of them, and therefore I think they will come forward. It is also true that they were common sense, because, in the end, what we ask is what is done. But we do have to say that the situation we have today – and I have started talking about the crisis we have in Catalonia, socially – is not a two-day crisis, it is not a two-month crisis. Years ago, not this government, but the governments of which this government inherits, and which has followed with the same support, practically, of the former Convergence, after that creation of Junts for the Yes, after Junts for Catalonia..., so everything, all the situation we find today, is the result of detail, lack of reversal and lack of ability to cope with a situation of social protection. That after this lack of investment, this lack of resources, has led us to situations of lack of capacity to respond to spaces such as residences or other spaces such as public salvation. We here have presented two points, which seem, therefore, to have not pleased the government, but this also makes us happier, in some way, because, in fact, we are making opposition. And I think it's important that these two items are able, as a minimum..., or at least you can talk. An era about the Fons of Local Cooperation. On the Fund for Local Cooperation, we ask that it be better adapted to the reality and diversity and plurality of the municipalities of Catalonia. Not all municipalities have the same situation. There are municipalities of the metropolitan area... there are municipalities of the coast that have a very large space or surface, but a small population. The only thing we are asking is that apart from the criteria of population, there is also, therefore, here between, the gross family income – and this has been dealt with by Mrs Moreta and I think that..., that there is a good reason, therefore, that there may have been – and also other indexes such as the rate of growth, and that the municipal extension, the extension of the surface, is not so important, because I believe that in this case, in many cases, the distribution of this Local Cooperation Fund..., with difficult problems, and I believe that..., unjust, many times, in municipalities above all the metropolitan area. This doesn't look like it's going to be approved. We think it's necessary to talk about it, that it's about financing. Then we can talk another time, next time, about finance. And the second was simply to declare what has been done, and it is that the Government of the Generality has lost—it has lost—until today, until these assumptions, and we will see, education from zero to three years. I think it's important that they declare it. It's a simple statement. And I think these statements serve, many times, to push forward and solve problems. We'll see what's been said here, if education from zero to three years will be free. I, for the time being, have not listened to this; the only one I have listened to is that P2 will try to make it free. I doubt it very much. This government's commitments are often unbelievable, and we will therefore wait. Thank you, Members, Members, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.9.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.10.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. For decades the local world has been forgotten, despised, and never united by the Government of the Generalitat. Catalan separatism has been more focused on accumulating power, powers and resources at the expense of the Spanish Government and the municipalities. The Generalitat has always regarded local governments as a dangerous counter-power that had to be eroded as much as possible. It is no coincidence that he has never moved a finger to strengthen financial autonomy and strengthen municipal competences. Separatism wants the municipalities to be set up, coveted, financially kidnapped, poorly organized and unable to make them shadow, just the opposite of what VOX claims. Our position is clear and well-known: more municipal power, less autonomous rates. We must strengthen the role of the administration closest to the citizens, the municipalities, and the one that best knows the needs of its neighbours. The municipalities have to stop being the cinder of the administrations. It is unheard of that at this time of year we are talking about the programme contract which should enter into force on 1 January. No such level of uncertainty and stress was necessary for the municipalities, businesses and workers who depend on it. Leaving this issue so important for almost the last minute of the year reflects, it shows the extent to which the Government is acting maliciously and shattering with the municipalities. It is a secret to voices that the Generalitat of Catalonia has not been exercising its powers, especially in the field of social policies. We all know that separatists have not invested enough in public housing policies, residences or day care, for just three examples. The list is endless. We say this every time we can: hundreds of millions of euros have been spent on their separatist delusions while neglecting the fundamentals and failing to comply with the pact. The municipalities have been obliged to assume improper competences worth hundreds of millions of euros for many years in the face of the government of the Generalitat, which has been much more concerned with building state structures than structures for people, such as outpatient clinics or day care centers. It is a supine injustice that the local world de facto finances the Generality. For this reason, the municipalities must be compensated so that the real social needs of Catalans can be met. It is therefore urgent to address this situation, to agree on the method of calculating that historical debt of the Generalitat with municipalism, to clarify with transparency the outstanding debt, to settle the debt and, as a final pin, to urge the Government of Spain to assume the competences in social matters, and that these be attributed to those who care for them, the municipalities. The dog's dead, anger's over. The best solution to solve this chronic underfunding of municipal services is to give the municipalities the competence and that the State articulates sufficient funding and clarification of the competence of the municipalities. It is not honest or efficient for the autonomous community to act as an intermediary disloyal on this issue, on the issue of social services. It is not to be received that they make money with the needs of the citizens, and that they pass brown – if I may express it – to the municipalities. That's not tolerable. In short, ladies and gentlemen, assuming and acknowledging the problem, we have opted for a solution that runs counter to what the Socialists are proposing, and that is why we will vote against the motion. The autonomous community remains. I'm done. We believe that addressing the Catalan financing law apart from pushing for a thorough review of Spanish tax legislation is hasty, wrong and can further entangle the issue. I take this opportunity to ask the Socialist Group to urge its colleagues to reform local funding and the competition framework of the whole nation to ensure the financial sufficiency of Spanish municipalities and to end the institutional disloyalty of the autonomous communities. Posdata: we will not support the idea of having 17 autonomous local funding laws – what was missing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.11.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word now the MP Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.12.0	Very good morning, deputies, deputies. President, thank you. Counselor... Well, before... So, coming, I was thinking of this city counterpower, I was thinking of this eighty or ninety_per_cent of municipalities to the AMI, which is really a good city counterpower that is not precisely against independence, but against it. Well, gentlemen of the PSC, you bring us a young man who, from the start, the first thing you've been told is that it's very superficial, isn't it? It's very shallow, because it doesn't fit the problem. You're talking about one of the most important problems we have, which is actually this pillar of the country's social rights, which are the social services. Yes, they claim the program contract; I think we're all conjured up here with this program contract, which we already know is up. We are extremely critical of the fact that this strategic social service plan has become a reality, and we also value the importance and support of all professionals, which means a major change and evolution in the transformation of the country's social services. But you don't approach the marches where you're inserting everything you claim into this young man, who already tells you that many of the points we'll vote for, not others, and now I'll explain to you why. You don't approach... First of all, you talk a lot about the generality's debt with the municipalities, a debt that is essential to pay, but always forget to talk about the debt that the State has with Catalonia. And it's not fair. It's not just because you have to see, it's directly related, one thing to the other. We also have to demand... And not just the debt that the State has with Catalonia, but which social policies are being made from the State and which policies..., not just social ones, but this mark that cuts down social rights and that makes this portfolio of services that the professionals who give the face of the municipalities before the very grave situations in which citizenship is found..., it turns out that they are absolutely conditioned by things that fall within the constitutional framework. We do not forget 135; 135 and so many restrictions that the constitutional framework makes to many of the social bests that are driven by the sovereignty of this Parliament. 135 decided to rescue banks before rescuing families. And the consequences of this are brutal problems of housing and family precariousness, which are what workers and social workers have to deal with. Therefore, let us not forget this mark of the debt: the constitutional mark and the mark of many of the laws that you have the opportunity to change – and they are not – to improve the lives of the people and the benefits that families can have. And we don't forget the issue of municipal finance either. You're making this proposal, which is a bit of a trap, from this additional background. Honestly, I said that, I said that in some interventions that deal with local finance issues: we change the local finance system. From the State, we change the local financing system so that it is stable, so that it does not take over the real estate market, because actually the joints have much more sovereignty and much more autonomy of action. And we're serious about addressing local issues, and not just about it. Finally, there's a theme that seems to me we can't go through, which is this one of the SAD that you pose here, when you don't take into account that the SAD should be public. The service of home care, so pre-characterized and so essential for us models of care for people... you don't say anything here. And finally, about the proposal Ciutadans made to claim... here I find it hard for the government, that bothers it, this point, but it seems to us that it is necessary to remember that this happened. It's true that we're working on it now, but it's good to know that we've also discussed such important issues as the right to zero-three education, and we never have to do it again. And, therefore, it is better to face a mistake that was made, to mingle it, than not to make it see that it did not pass. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.13.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.14.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... This motion puts on the table a debate as urgent as necessary – we are already late, too, for this debate – and supports some concrete measures on the debt with the local financing of the social service system. And here, more than strengthening the concrete instruments – and here there is a broad consensus on the import of the programme contract, on the import of the updating of the social service portfolio – we believe that we need to go further and set a model change at the level of social services as a vertebrator, because it is a rank that has not been given enough to the municipality. In fact, from some of the municipalities where we have representation, from assemblies In Comú Podemos, we have presented motions claiming the program contract, specifically asking..., insisting from the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia that it is requested a meeting with the councillor, of urgency, because it is approaching the August and is not yet known re, of the fourth addition, linked with the covid. And here we have been very insistent, we. And here we introduce a few matisses, don't we? Well, ladies and gentlemen, as long as we vote in favour of the majority... almost all points. Here we consider that it is not only a matter of informing the assemblies, but that the assemblies are a negotiating party not only from a technical perspective, but from a political perspective. Because what's up here is that the program contract is currently working on, with a series of files, commenting on technical aspects, but there's not enough political negotiation going on, nor is there any real money on the table. Therefore, of course we must sign the programme contract as quickly as possible so that it enters into force, but we insist that it is not only necessary to inform, but to act precisely accordingly, that the municipalities are in which they have something to say, since they have been managing the pandemic in the first line. Of course, we support the development of the social service strategy for the first time – it is very important that it is developed – and also to increase the resources of the program contract in at least – and here..., there has been a government concern – around 70_million euros, bearing in mind that these 70_millions, with the delay we are already carrying, are only a figure that would help to mitigate, in any case, the effects that the covid has had on the municipalities in terms of social services. He wrote yesterday the Arnau Funes in an article, with a municipalist view of the assumptions that are being negotiated now – and I do comets –: "It is not the same to plant increments in educational policies, health or socio-community in general that to plant reversals in public schools or in primary care, or to propose an increment to educational or health concerts. In the same vein, it is not the same to increase the social service program contract with the joint ventures as to increase the financing of private companies in residences. Everything can be understood as social policy, but it is not all a social policy of priority public interest. And here we totally agree. What else can we say? Clearly, we support the deployment of all these instruments that are being put to the vote, because... but above all we agree that we should leave..., not just approve motions and motions for resolutions to the committees, but we should already put in place the necessary resources. Social services are totally exhausted and can't go any further. It speaks to the reason for the increase of the staff to the service of home care, but very many things fall, because, as we say to the beginning, here we would speak more quickly of a model change. They talk..., there is a lack of more democratized social services, we professional profiles, a more multidisciplinary job, which is to recognize the function of the management, which is to review the rates of professionals, coherent equipment maps, which make a clear bet for the community work... There are so many things missing and the local world has been so alone, in the 2007 response of 2008, that we cannot allow this scene to get worse again. And here I must point out that the Generalitat has an even bigger debt with those municipalities that have the most vulnerability, and that's not the point, at the young lady's proposal, is it? , and to the government's proposal neither. How do you think you're going to make up for these inequalities? Deia in a..., well, the regional study of the municipalities of Catalonia that you town with Badalona, Sant Adrià, Cornellà are in a situation still worse [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] So... Okay. I'm running out of time, but we're voting for most points. And let's hope he's a gift for this social service update in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.15.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Mixt Group did not intervene. Therefore, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy lady Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.16.0	[[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Every day I get more time; say I have two minutes, or I get more time. First, I like that Member of Parliament Saldoni, from Junts per Catalunya, says that we are talking about the local world, because when I asked the councillor, she said: "Maybe I should ask the councillor for Social Welfare. No, we're talking about the local world, huh? I mean, I want to make it clear. Then, we'll say..., the lords of Republican Left – because he said « the lords of the PSC –..., no, the lords of Republican Left..., he quoted a thing that has already been said two days ago that I feel it, in this Parliament: « Facts and do not speak, a slogan of the PSC. And I would say to him... I said, "Facts, don't talk, because the government of Catalonia does its dues, and the government of the State doesn't do them. I'll tell him who's doing the duets. Do you know how much pressure locals have on the state government? I'll say 13,5_per_cent. Do you know how much more Catalonia is? 3.5. That's what they're all about. [[applause]] And don't say anything. On the subject of the... we spoke... the deputy of Ciutadans spoke of the subject of the P3 and also incorporated the subject of the P2. I'd love to, too, in fact, and not in words. The assumption that you incorporate into P2, huh? , at this time is 30..., 30_million euros– 30, okay? Do you know how much they've rejected, the transfers from the state? Thirty-three. [[Greetings.]] How many do they have? Zero. Zero, huh? - Thirty, thirty-three. The second thing... [[Widow's remorse.]] I know it's annoying, when we tell the truth, but, you know, that's it. To the CUP I would say... "Superficial..., another day they present exams, which we will talk about, we will improve them. And I'm sure it'll be a lot more practical for everyone, and it won't be as shallow as you say. Thank you so much everyone. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.17.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will be at noon before the session is suspended. [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs Gonzalez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.18.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.19.0	All right. Thank you very much. Let's move to the seven-point. [[Maria Dolors Sabater and Puig ask to speak.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, ma'am Sabater?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.20.0	Yes, he did. It was to ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.21.0	Of all the points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.22.0	Point 8 and point 11.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.23.0	8 and 11. Any more voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Freixanet?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.24.0	It should also be a separate vote on point 3, point 8 and point 11.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.25.0	No more petitions? [[Pause.]] Perfect. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the financing of local governments]] [[302-00056/13]] So let's move on to the seventh item of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the financing of local governments, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. To expose it, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we just felt it, a little bit, didn't we? But, finally, today we have a new illustration of what a concept means today..., a certain concept of "being in Spain". We have an executed power and a central administration that obliterates, marginalizes and ill-treats territorial administrations, especially those of local governments. Today we have an example of institutional desirousness and absolute lack of consideration, both in relation to the assemblies as well as respect for the rights of the citizens directly affected, damaged by years of inaction and legislative silence. Last week the Government of the State was detailing its proposal to calculate the new plus-value tax, and it was obviously a decision that came late and reached without consensus. It came late because it did weeks that it was fully aware of the need to reform this system of calculation, which converted into unjust a just tax, which converted into unjust a progressive and necessary tax. We believed that this Parliament could not have spoken out before this situation. It calls for a clear position in favour of our municipalities. And that's why we're bringing this young man to you, so that, in the first place, we're denouncing the state's inaction, which has led us where we are today. There was an alternative: our municipalist entities had been asking for it for some time..., they asked the central government to reform the code of the most valuable to provide it with legal certainty. It's not gonna do it. Secondly, to point out the need for a comprehensive reform of local finance. If any lesson we need to learn from this is that there is enough to reform local finance based on small dioceses. See, in mid-January, the European Union's joint ventures are managed by similar competitive brands: a premise around the god, eleven_per_cent of its respective GDP, its wealth. In the Spanish State, this is the middle of the sixth percent, huh? A difference in resources actually available in the hands of the assemblies, which obviously has a negative impact on the street and public services for the citizen. But it may be necessary to remember the origin of all folded. This financing model is linked to a certain idea of the role of urban planning in the generation of entrances to the joints. The liberalisation of the fuelled soil in President Aznar's time put the exploitation of the fuel at the centre of the local finance model, and – let's remember – it eliminated the tax on economic activities; that is to say, it placed the joints in the hands of the real estate developers. And it is obvious that, without sufficient resources, the gatherings had to take hands and hands to survive, and quite often this implied the impulse and construction, the urban development of much more than would have been necessary for the sake of the quality of life of all folds. But it has been a long time since the State, that the central government remains ahead of this precarious local finance and is unable to approach ambitiously a reform that serves to guarantee the principles of local sufficiency and autonomy. This reform, in the third place, must go hand in hand with the repeal of the centralist regulation which aims to prevent municipal autonomy and which is offensive to our assemblies – the Presuppositional Enabling Law and the LRSAL – which has entered into competitions and centralization without being able to secure the financial adequacy of local authorities. Fourthly, and finally, demand and make manifest that decisions must be guaranteed..., as a further guarantee of decentralisation..., because it has not re-injured the citizenry of centrality and the unilaterality of decisions of the State. Now we have a real damage to the joint boxes. We'll see what magnitude we have, with the assumptions that we're all working out for 2022. And that the State is responsible for this loss and created a permanent source of compensation. There's no way we're filling our mouths with municipalism. It is time to resolve the questions of substance and to stop creating conflicts between the local administration and a generality that makes their dues, because they are, from the central government, unable to face their own responsibility. And one last apart. To ensure that the joint ventures can effectively manage the European foundations, the foundations of European recovery. It is this administration that is close to what it knows best, which really knows who are the possibilities, the needs, the ambitions, the expectations that are created in our towns and cities. And, lastly, a reference to a theme that we have not been able to finish with the commons, although I believe that, in fact, it may be considered incorporated in the experience of the text. The Government of Catalonia, indeed, is committed to developing – and you say in its plan of government – a law of all the local rule that is in our abyss, including the questions of financing. And, therefore, I assure you, Mr Gallego, that we are in a position to consider that your concern, which we have not been able to finish formalizing, has absolutely no bearing on the intention and commitment of this Government. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.27.0	The word continued, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.28.0	Thank you, President. Well, in any case, I don't know Mr. Gallego – he's sorry, he can't... – but it's true that he's the one with whom the issue was negotiated. And we are aware, therefore, that there was a willingness to reach an agreement, and therefore to incorporate it. In any case, the sense of the emena, in fact, we voted for the previous motion of the PSC, because what the emena claimed was, therefore, incorporating the element that the Generalitat develops its law of local government and finance in the length of this legislature. And, therefore, we will vote on this at the SGP. In any case, and to get into the subject matter of which you're planting in this young man, we agree that, obviously, it would be appropriate to review the higher-value tax. Clearly, in the first place you tell us to denounce the reprehensible inaction and let go of the functions of the successor governments of the State. We will not vote in favour, obviously, of this point, among other things because the issue has been resolved on eight days since the suspension of the tax was proclaimed; so... Yes, surely late, but in any case, that was done, okay? Therefore, we will vote against this point. Clearly, you say, "You do things late. I will not argue with him that it was late, but it is clear that the Statute of Catalonia of the year 2006 provided for the law of local government and finance, and we are in the year 2021 and we have not made this law. So, I don't know if we do things in time or not... And, therefore, I believe that we must also apply these same criteria to ourselves. In any case, we will vote in favour of the rest of the points of the motion, because, effectively, we believe that it is necessary to rethink, reformulate the system of financing between the different levels of government. And, in fact, what we believe is that in today's world and with the problems we face today you don't feel that the states have the greatest capacity to spend. And, in fact, we believe that the states were born today are not the right instrument to deal with the problems of the citizenry, but the one that falls, precisely, is that the cities follow, that the people follow, the people rule the world with a multi-scalar gaze. In fact, by the year 2013, a recognizable politician, Benjamin Barber, was publishing a book with this title, right? ...what would happen if they were the mayors and mayors, if they were the joints, the ones that ruled the world. And in fact, in the subtitle of this book he was talking about dysfunctional countries and emerging cities. Therefore, we believe that it is not here, where we have to go, not to a greater financing of the local government, not to an empowerment, not to a proximity of the governments to the citizenry, because in the end we have to solve these problems that have a global dimension, but that end up impacting locally and in a very different way to each of our territories. And it is in this sense, therefore, that we collect the plantation that is done in this motion, obviously, of derogation from the law of presupposition and of the LRSAL, things that we share. And like the last question... you guys have a whole series of toilets, too, don't you? , to hold the State accountable for the situation that has arisen, which we also agree. But, of course, we continue to have the feeling, first, that "bypasses the Generality, it is to say, from the State to the local world" bypassing the Generality, which we do not share, because it is not this, the model that we defend, but rather a multi-scale model – therefore, of shared sovereignties – in which the Generality has an important role to play in relation to the local world. And, second of all, as I said before, so, not only "bypass the Generality, but they take no responsibility. For example, at the last point they say to us: "Guarantee an active role of the municipalities in assigning the funds Next Generation. We agree, but we also agree with the 2,142_million euros of Next Generation that there is under the generality; we also have to work with the joints. I, referring to the presumption of the Generality..., a presumption that allocates 6,600_million euros to territorial organization and local government, which is a quite similar percentage to that of the presumption of the 20 – have gone from a 15.3 to a 15.8 – but, of course, we do not have to forget that, from these 6,653_million euros of the presumption 22, there will be 4,124 that come from the entrances of the State. Therefore, it is evident that the State also increases its contribution to the local world. Therefore, in the end, shared responsibilities to manage current problems, in our understanding, therefore, with this look of shared sobrieties and multiscalarity. With all this, we will vote against point 1 and in favour of the remaining points of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.29.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.30.0	Good day to you again. Mr Maragall, I would say that, when the Constitutional Court's ruling came out, what the Government of Spain has done is to create a formula for calculation so that the assemblies can compensate for these losses arising from the Constitutional ruling. Here we don't talk about inaction and neglecting functions, we talk about not interfering in judicial decisions in which the Government of Spain has no powers. If that's inaction, it's that they still have to learn a lot about how the legislature and the judiciary work. And it didn't work before because we were precisely immersed in a judicial process. I would like to remind you that the modification of this formula, which has been declared unconstitutional, was made by a government of the PP in 2004, and until four days ago it has not been declared unconstitutional. Do you know, Mr. Maragall, what was going on in 2004, when the PP made this change? So he was, no more or less, secretary of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, and until 2010 he was advisor of Education of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. And at no point – at no point – he raised the veil to claim that it was acting and changed the formula of calculation. So, I think – I think, huh? – that..., before leaving in an exaggerated way, I would recommend that, first, you reflect on a mike, because I had the opportunity, in its moment. Why, do you know how long it has taken the Government of Spain to reverse this situation that affects the assemblies? So neither more nor less than thirteen days, only thirteen, to find a formula that can be applied and is not unconstitutional. If that's why, Mr. Maragall, you're inaction... I'd already like the government of Catalonia to be so inactive to solve problems. What we agree on is that we need a reform of local finance. And the easiest thing for you is to claim to the Government of Spain, as you are used to; to all the motions..., we claim to the Government of Spain. But I would remind you that you do not believe that what we need in Catalonia is a local law of bases and finance, in addition to Article 200.1 of the Statute of Autonomy, which clearly states that Parliament must approve its own financial law. The Generality has competence in local finance and may include the legislative capacity to establish and regulate taxes on local governments. They also point out that the Government of the State is responsible for the loss of entry resulting from this sentence. And here I would say that this point is already out of time, because the Government of Spain has been diligent, as I said, and has gone fast, and, therefore, has already made this new formula of calculation that will allow entrances to the joints. I believe that the Government of Spain has been able to reverse this situation by applying this new calculation formula only in thirteen days, and therefore I sincerely believe that there is nothing more to say. I will leave it to my socialist spokesman to say the separate vote, because there are several points, and so... we have points, and, not to be mistaken, I prefer to say it later. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.31.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.32.0	Thank you, ma'am, President. It is true that, on 26 October, the Constitutional Court handed down a judgment declaring the unconstitutionality and nullity of several articles of the law on local estates referring to the system of determining the taxable basis of the tax on the increase in the value of land of urban nature, known as the municipal surplus. We cannot ignore that the sentence gave reason to thousands of taxpayers – thousands – who never understood this tax. Nor, that generates economic uncertainty among the municipalities, although it only supposes 4,7_per_cent of the municipal collection in Spain, according to the General Council of Economists. Having said that, do we have to maintain municipal capital gains? No, no, From the point of view of VOX, we have said from the beginning, on repeated occasions, that no. Since VOX was founded, the party is against it. We are the only party in this Parliament that opposes this tax, which is powerful – I remember. [[Greetings.]] VOX has been saying for years that this tax is unfair, that it violates the principles of economic capacity and justice and non-confiscation. I remember that it is a tax that suffers not only those who sell a house, but also heirs who receive a property. The old surplus value did not charge a speculation operation of less than one year; it was calculated on the basis of miscalculated or poorly updated cadastral data and applied even if there were losses, and it involved double taxation on the same taxable fact. The surplus value, in addition to hindering the change of home of many people, forced the heirs to pay large amounts of money when their closest people died, so that inheriting remains in Catalonia – and in the rest of Spain, in this case – very burdensome because of this unfair surplus value. We remained ojiplatic when we saw Minister Montero screaming at a rally, as if selling socks in a market, which, after the sentence, in two days was going to recover that fiscal figure, while socialist delegates broke their hands clapping. We had never seen so much joy and joy to pay taxes as at that meeting of the Socialist Party. Beyond that reaction, we were also greatly surprised by the reaction of the servile press to the regime, which has been unanimous. Instead of celebrating the victory of citizens over the tax, which has been looting us for years, they have only highlighted the collectory loss that will result in the sentencing of the municipalities. It is already curious that they are only concerned about the loss of city halls and not that citizens have finally seen justice done to a tax that had withdrawn more than 10,000_million_euros from their pockets in the last decade without legal protection. As I said in the previous motion, VOX is also a municipalist political movement. We want strong municipalities, which increasingly take on more skills and offer more benefits to their neighbours. The loss of collection that would entail the abolition of this tax must be compensated, as I said before, by the Autonomous Communities, which are the entities that boost equality between Spaniards, which are machines for generating administrative duplication and which suck up huge amounts of public money. Our position is clear, we have said it before: more municipal power, less autonomous taifas. Hence, the municipalities, which, in the Catalan case, have been de facto financing the Generalitat, taking on improper powers, as I said before. I'm done. Unlike Esquerra, who cares about a radish closing every year with deficit and public debt – we only have to look at the budgets of the Generalitat of the last ten years, in which there is only debt and growth of the public deficit – we are in favour of budgetary stability. It is good to put a stop to the indebtedness of the municipalities and that there are rules of spending. Too many situations of municipal bankruptcy have suffered too many neighbors, and not far from here. We will therefore vote against this motion, because our philosophy, as you have heard, is completely contrary to that of the proposing group. The distance with Republican Left on this issue is infinite. So we do not accept this tax or the harsh express reform of it, nor that the municipalities continue to be underfunded, nor that the regions continue to accumulate competences and financial muscle at the expense of these. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.33.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.34.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... well, I think that, in this second young man, speaking of local governments, it is obvious that what we need to be serious about is talking and making decisions about this local government financing bill, this funding... but not just funding, but also the power of local authorities at the time of making decisions. In fact, if we look at the importance of municipal policy not as the management of public administration, but as the impulse of public policies that are resolved from the proximity and knowledge of the reality of people living in the municipality, giving it an answer, what we should have is an inverse pyramid; it is to say, that the ability of municipalities to make decisions in these public policies should be much less restricted than it is at these times. We, of course, will vote in favour of most of the points, agree with this motion, but I would certainly like to comment on a couple of things with respect to the issue of the most vulnerable, wouldn't I? Basically... from a gang, what has happened with this feeling is that it has put into evidence once more the fever of local finance that is subject to eventualities that cannot control their own municipalities, isn't it? Depending on which operations pass to the municipality – in the case of the IBI, therefore, if there is an increase in furniture, or, in this case, if there is movement for the most valuable ones – the municipality will have tickets or will not have them. This eventuality, this fever of local finance, does not give security at the time of making previews good public policies. And, secondly, on the other hand, it is at risk, with feelings like this, the ability of municipalities to make policies of redistribution of wealth, that this was not one..., is one, that helps to make this redistribution of wealth and to make those who have the most, pay the most. So, I think that... I'm going back to saying that, beyond the motions... that the motions are fine, that they allow us to debate, that they allow us to approve a few points, but I think we need to make firm decisions with the law of locals and finance. What would come from what you, as the government, are laying on this young man? Home, so that the municipalities, more than being able to have a better financing, we can have more skills at the time of taking decisions cabdals in public policies. And I'll give you two examples. To the law accompanying the assumptions, which I do not know whether in the end it will fall or not, but... there was a law that worried us a lot, about the PDUs, in which the municipalities of the metropolitan area lost the opportunity to influence, to decide, to respect the PDUs of their municipalities. And another one that is fit: the municipality of water; the current metropolitan law prevents the municipalities of the metropolitan area from remunicipalizing water. We would like to know that, with the same spirit as this young man is, that it is obvious that he touches the crust in the State, because he does, but... in the same sense, therefore, that he can allow what he says in David Harvey, a socio-legal, political, who has analysed very well the influence that the policies of the transforming cities have had, the governments that have put the policy to the service of social transformation from the cities... He speaks of how, from these cities, revolutionary transformations can be made. And it's true, because until a state is born, until the government – an independent government, if we have the Catalan Republic – can make truly transformative policies into issues such as public water, until it arrives, we already have drawings, hundreds of municipalities that are compromised with public energy, public water and basic services for citizens. And from the generality we don't have to put obstacles because they can do it. Therefore, I would ask that, in coherence with what is asked of this young man, also vet for these other points. We'll give them support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.35.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Congressman Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.36.0	MPs and MPs, president... the import of the most valuable was an import, and I think a tax, with an insurmountable calcium. And that's what I think many of us have experienced and that we have been able to report it from the local world many times..., I think it's obvious and we can't stop saying it. It's obvious that when this tax was created, and the People's Party did, it made a mistake. An error was made creating this tax and an error was made, obviously, with its definition, with its description. Here, just as we spoke before the financing or the financing of the assemblies, we must denounce that the governments that the Generalitat has held are so guilty... Because, we have said, in many cases as social rights and others as education, the Generalitat has paid many times, say, that its inability to help..., or many times has tried to seize or use the assemblies because it covers some of its competitions – and speaks of some: a very clear is that of security, which I believe is obvious. But the Government of Spain also believes that it has not done a job, or at least it has not done a job defining a finance model for the local world, no longer in Catalonia, but all of Spain. And this complaint that we have here today about the table of Parliament, we have all of Spain in different assemblies, and so we have denounced it from Citizens. We have reported since 2007 that we would find ourselves with this problem, and nothing has happened. And it's true that nothing happened, no solution was found. Mrs Moreta says: "We solved it quickly. I think it's wrong; I think it doesn't solve the problem, it's still more inquisitive. But it is that neither the People's Party nor the PSOE have been able to deal with and deal with this problem that we have all of Spain with local finance. We, there is one part..., and also the distance we have, obviously, with the Republican Left at these and other points, I think there is a part of the denunciation of reality, so how it has been applied or the lack of work from the Government of Spain, with which we can coincide. And, therefore, in a few points we will abstain. For us, from Ciutadans, the most obvious proposal in this financing model I think is not so much the suppression of this tax as its modification or reform, which, for example, makes this not apply to the heresies that at present assume a double taxation, which is intolerable. In fact, the committee of experts, in the review of the financing model..., 2017 already spoke of this double taxation. They talked and had doubts about that tax. We believe that the deposit cannot be left as it is now. And, obviously, we believe that the gatherings that they have to do are able to participate in other taxes that are currently collected at national level and that we believe that they should be involved in the local world, because, in the end, they are taxes that actually speak or at least express the dynamics and dynamism, many times, the economics of each municipality. Therefore, this reform is totally necessary, and for us the way would be this; it is not suppressed, but the modification of this tax, and the modification of the financing model. And obviously, they were talking about the Generality's Local Cooperation Fund before. It's an insufficient foundation, totally insufficient. We have not spoken many times, and we have given some examples. In fact, a few hours ago, he was talking about cities like Sabadell paying practically the light of the lights. This is what the Generalitat currently pays to gatherings like Sabadell's. I therefore believe that this also needs to be denounced. About the rest of the young lady, we don't think that the rules of spending should be eliminated. Basically, because we believe that presuppositional stability is essential to be able to define the future and, so to speak, not to go to difficult realities as we have seen in some joints to Catalonia, and to all Spain, in fact. I, on the LRSAL, must surely be reformed. We need to talk, and we need to do it at the Congress of Deputies, not here, it's obvious – we can talk about it, but here we can't... But we think that anyhow this has to assume its elimination. On the rest of the points, I have already said that some, like, for example, the paper that must hold the joints in the recovery of the fund..., or, in this case, the participation in the Next Generation fund, we do this point that we will vote in favour. It's totally appropriate and obvious. Thank you, President, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.37.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.38.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. You see, in this case, you are criticizing the Government of the State for not having been able to react in time to the more predictable feeling that the Constitutional Court emmetry on the most vulnerable, right? And don't forget to be right: here no one has been able to react. There was already evidence that this would happen, but in the end, you didn't know how to react. You also approved the assumptions of the state government, and you could have put it as a condition to review it. To me, this PSOE, of 'I, this, go Monday to the Council of Ministers and fix it, therefore, frankly, no. It does not seem to me to follow what it touches, at a time of a deep economic crisis. They show an absolute insensitivity to the city, to the taxpayers, and, moreover, denotes an improvisation and that it will most likely be a reform of the calculation of this very poorly done tax. Why, of course, is this not a fa« now I am going and arrange it tomorrow in the Council of Ministers through a decree, is it not? Things aren't like that. In fact, for us it is good news, this feeling, because it gives air to a part of the city that is very busy, in a moment, more than that, where there can be many sales of "lives, because, more than that, it is a moment where there have been many deaths, there are many heresies, and, more than that, here in Catalonia are already offended by the imposition of estates. We're told that we need to reform local funding because the state has decreased its resources. So it's hard for me to say, but this contribution is not arbitrary. This..., it is not the Government of the State that has decided: "Look, now I have less money. No, no, This is charged for you. And make a political speech about it, frankly... And I'm not exactly a fan of the state government that's there right now, but I don't see it... that's taxed, and that's what comes with the rules. In fact, it is good to complain about what does not come from there, but not to talk about the government's debt to the Barcelona Assembly, for example. We discussed it yesterday at the meeting. That's not what we're voting for, is it? So, what the Generalitat gave to the Barcelona Assembly, let's leave it out. I also remind you that they want to talk a lot about reforming the law of local governments, but here the law of local governments and the law of financing local governments have been pending since 2014, and you have been governing for a few years, and it has not been presented, it has not been processed. They call for the repeal of the presupposition and sustainability law to be funded. But, listen, it's that the European foundations are conditioned by this. And they can repeal it, but they won't have to do another, because if they don't, they won't get the European funds. So they'll explain to me what it's gonna do, this derogation. They also ask for the derogation – here we are removing everything – from the law of rationalisation and sustainability of the local administration, because they say it is a manifest aggression to local democracy. It's hard for me, but healthy finances don't see how they can be aggression; they're a necessity. And that's what he does to make sure there's healthy finances. They ask that the Government of the State is responsible for the loss of entry that gives rise to this sentence. Sounds sensational to me. You are grateful, therefore, that your claim to the Government of the State is responsible for an action ordered by the Constitutional Court. So, that's... that's manual. So, the Constitutional Court has to disobey, it's political repression... that's right, huh? When the Constitutional Court decides in our favour, then everyone here has to take responsibility for what the Constitutional Court says, right? They guarantee an active role for municipalities in the assignment and management of European recovery funds Next Generation. Fantastic. I'm telling you, that's what I'm going to vote for. I'm going to vote for it. It's all the rest, it's not. That's what I'll vote for. Now, you're blocking the handling of the Barcelona Assembly assumptions yesterday. So they'll explain to me... they'll explain to me how they can, with one hand, ask for an active role of the municipalities in the management of the Next Generation funds, and, with the other hand, block the processing of assumptions that will allow you to this management. A little coherence, please; a little coherence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, please, a little coherence. It's important, coherence. Clearly, it's not possible to do one thing and at the same time to do the other. Do they want to manage them? I agree, I'll vote for it. But that requires assumptions, Mr. Maragall. We're still in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.39.0	And, finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Quim Calatayud.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.40.0	Good morning, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... In any case, you must agree that local administration is the basis of our organizational and institutional system, and it is the administration that we have most about our citizens. It is what best knows the needs and demands of all Catalans and all Catalans. For this reason, any change that affects local administration is a change that affects all of us. The last demonstration, the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the most vulnerable, since it has made clear, if not, that the system of financing local hysenda does not have it well-solved and is absolutely insufficient because the assemblies can adequately attend to the needs of our citizens. To finish rounding it up, the presuppositional or LRSAL regulations have made our situation worse, since they clearly show the ability to act on the joints, and again, and again, and again, damage the citizenry, which is deprived of the investments and services necessary for its development. For all this, we agree and subscribe to the content of the motion that is put to the vote, and we call for the most urgent of the local hysenda financing system, the repeal of the presuppositional stability law, that of the LRSAL, and we demand that the State compensate for the input losses resulting from the repeal of the most vulnerable. And we're also asking for an action paper from locals on European investment funds and a new local finance bill. But, from Junts' point of view, and, if I may, from Mayor's point of view, we're short: everything we've said so far basically from the State Administration, and, second, the better finances don't solve the problems of our country's local administration. That the assemblies have sufficient economic resources and that they do not have limited their capacity to finance is important and, surely, absolutely necessary, but if we want a modern country and equity that protects the rights of Catalans and Catalans must give themselves more steps. If we want to fight against depopulation, if we want to protect the territory and seriously face the challenges of the future that this country has set, and if we want to work for real territorial rebalancing, and if we want to modernise the local administration and guarantee the rights of the citizenry, we need to set ourselves what changes and adjustments are to be made to the current regulations because the compliment of the law is not a charge or an obstacle to the municipality, both small and large. And, ladies and gentlemen, let's start with all the standards approved for this Parliament referring to the local world. And it doesn't all refer to finance. Small municipalities have the same obligations and requirements as large and medium-sized cities in the metropolitan area, for example, or in any area of the country. In the urban area, it cannot be that a municipality of two hundred inhabitants has the same legislation to mount a small industrial estate that any city in the metropolitan area of our country. Public contract: it cannot be that a minor contract remains of the same import in a large village as in a small village. [[Some applause.]] Or in the field of transparency: it cannot be – it cannot be – that it has the same level of transparency a registrar of any municipality of our country that any Member or Councillor, who collects..., and who lives from the public era. It's not the same..., that any country in the world is in a situation like this; so... In change, small people don't have human resources or materials to deal with this project we have. Therefore, the creation of the local government commission must be a very important tool, it must be given to the mayors. The municipal legislation, the legislation that affects the whole issue..., the life of the people, must bring it to term the mayors and governors of the municipalities. And the deputies and deputies of this Parliament we have to give to see them because they pulled it forward. And, finally, and that would be a fact... Yesterday, it seems to be, for what we see under pressure, it approved a motion of 1,600_million for the covid theme for the assemblies and for the different autonomous communities. It is important that this was approved and incorporated into the assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.41.0	Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.42.0	Yes, thank you, President. I understand that at last, in fact, there has been no mention, because we have not just reached an agreement with the commons on this issue, despite the fact that we have also spelled out the background agreement on the concept we are talking about. In any case, many things have been said here today, but to me it seems interesting to see... that is to say, there is a debate here. What does local government mean? What do you mean together? He means a land and a city. It means a soil and a few citizens, some citizens who want to live, work, enjoy, create. And that's what it's about. And when we discuss what is to be the financing model of the joints we are saying this: as a government..., "government means the ability to decide, it means to decide how to organize this territory, how these people are served, how it generates value and how it is recovered for the common good. And the most valuable ones were that, they're a way to express that. Urban action creates value, and it has to be decided how it recovers: with what percentage, with which characteristics, with which balanced formulas, etc. So this is the background debate that's behind this motion and behind this subject. PSC companies, it's not thirty days, no; it's four years. [[Widow's remorse.]] Guipuscoa's outlaws resolved this four years ago. It's been four years, starting with the feelings that already existed. Therefore, we were perfectly clear..., we are all perfectly clear that we have been able to react, we have had to react long before, and with all clarity. When we talk about the rights of assembly and when we talk about finance, we are also talking about respect for two principles: that of sufficiency and autonomy. Autonomy means this, making decisions; it means deciding what our future is, what our evolution is, how we grow, how we create wealth and distribute it. And that's what's at stake behind this motion and the proposal to review all the funding of all the local legislation that affects us. It is what we will do from the Government of Catalonia in the measure that we can manage our own competitions, which, in this case, as in so many others, is, obviously, very poor and very poor. But that's all we'll do, just like the government plan says. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.43.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this noon before he suspends the young man's vote. [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Moreno?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.44.0	Good morning, President. To ask for separate votes from points 1, 2, 4.a and 4.b, which could be voted in block, and separate votes also from point 3.a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.45.0	All right. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Cid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.46.0	Thank you, President. To ask for the vote separate from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.47.0	All right. [[Eva Parera and Escrichs ask to speak.]] Miss Parera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.48.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote on point 4.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.49.0	All right. Perfect, thank you very much. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into social policies]] [[302-00057/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on social policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Cervera..., absent, as your ability to implement for social policies. Last week our parliamentary group was able to present an inquiry from which we drew three conclusions. The first is that its social policy is based on words and not on facts, that it is focused on ideology and separatism, that prefer votes to improve the quality of life of Catalans. The second is that you need two things. On the one hand, an individual isolated from his family ties to be able to control the best, and, on the other, they need misery and poverty to then sell solutions that are usually smokescreens behind which there is never anything. The third: that only VOX remains for the defense and social protection of Catalan people and families, we are voted on or not voted on; that they are run out of cabbage and that VOX is already a social and patriotic alternative with a clear line of action with the well-being of citizens as the only objective, an alternative that is awakening the hope of thousands of Catalans who see us as the only option to lead the post-separatist Catalonia. But as works are love and not good reasons, today we are presenting a proposal with twelve very clear and decisive actions that this Government should launch if it intends to tackle this great problem. The key principles on which our proposals are framed are those of the national priority of aid and social services so that no Spaniard lives in poverty and poverty in Catalonia. In front of the waste in parrots... [[Some applause.]] Faced with the waste of time in paguitas and flats, which you seem to be betting on, the principle of efficiency and rationalisation of spending to improve and speed up bureaucratic and administrative procedures in social services and services; the prioritization of the most vulnerable people in the face of the ideological collectivization of society; and respect for individual and family responsibility in the face of public interventionism. Our proposals always go in the same direction, from Catalonia to Andalusia, from Alicante to Extremadura: in the direction of responding to the problems of the most vulnerable. In this regard, we urge the Government to increase social spending in the budget line of the unit. Yes, Counselor, to increase the much more, because it is our duty to end this scourge that is the waiting lists of dependence. [[Some applause.]] Second, establish a social protection plan for autumn-winter to help those most vulnerable people and families in these seasons in terms of energy poverty and economic insecurity. You prefer to pay millions of dollars at high prices to guarantee a warm home and a dish of food to Catalans. [[Some applause.]] Third, to shield rural Catalonia and the most humble neighborhoods so that they can enjoy the same quality of services and social benefits as those areas with higher economic rates. This weekend we have seen an example of the many scattered throughout our territory. Go to the Mine. Go, as we have done, and see under what conditions our compatriots live. [[Some applause.]] And finally, to promote a strategy of rationalization of spending, prioritizing the items intended for the most vulnerable, at risk of poverty and social exclusion, eliminating ideological and political spending. In this motion, what we are asking you to do is to prioritize those most in need; to look at their faces and to tell them that from now on they will be the main thing for you, and not your rupturist project and your ideological agenda. And now I want to address the Catalans with some special need or with some precarious economic situation – without employment, without a roof – to all those whom you ignore and which your department forgets. We tell them that in VOX we will persevere in their defense and protection, because if we know of anything in this party it is never to claudiate. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.51.0	Then, as long as no papers have been submitted, they have the word, to fix their position, the parliamentary groups. We will start with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. Mrs Monica Ríos has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.52.0	Well, thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. This young man who presents us with VOX on social policies in his initial presentation details a series of data: help dependency, waiting lists for access to residential places; data on Catalans who are at risk of extreme poverty, poor children; on the insufficient supply of social life and on the high rates of youth unemployment, and it is certain that the data are alarming. They were there before the pandemic, and they obviously made it worse. And the Socialists of Catalonia are concerned about us, and, more importantly, they are concerned about us. If you're a memory fan, you'll remember that four months ago we presented our social work plan in motion format, where there were twenty-three measures to bring to term, which were precisely actions that they were looking for was to reverse all these distressing indicators. May I also remind you that President Aragonès, in his investiture debate, promised a social security plan of €700_million that we are still waiting for today. And, Counselor, we don't see them reflected in the assumptions of the Social Rights Department that he presented to us. That said, and to get into the matter of the young man, like I can't talk about everything, because there are twelve agreements, I'll focus on two questions. Yes..., not to argue with VOX, because, obviously, our positions are years away, but to clarify to those who listen to us what they love, let's say, this young man of VOX, because it would come to be like the count of the lop and the seven goats, where the lop teaches the pup, but we all know the intentions of the lop. First question. The family perspective is repeated repeatedly in social policies. And who doesn't agree, from here, that family is the basic pillar of our society? We all agree. But the most important question is what family model defense VOX. Companies sui have stated: "The family is a father, a mother and their children. One of his deputies also said: "I defend the natural family. Is there an unnatural family? Is there an unnatural family? We have put forward a proposal that we would like to equate the help of the families named with that of the single-parent families. You voted against it. This is his defense of the family. Or it must be that the single parent family is among the unnatural families... ; it must be that. Miri, her unique family model is a direct attack on diversity. Not to mention their policies for pregnant women, that the only one they're looking for is that women can't decide about our own. They say: "Children are better raised with their father and mother. Do you know where children are better raised? Where the child is working in love, in the values of responsibility, respect, tolerance..., values far removed from their positions. That's the real family, be the type. Second question. « National priority. Ensure the prioritisation of Spanish citizens in access to social services and benefits. Here they carry without contemplating treaties of the European Union in their phonenal rights. Article 21 : « Non-discrimination. Paragraph 2: "No discrimination on grounds of nationality shall be prohibited in the scope of the treaties and without prejudice to their particular provisions. You, who defend the law many times, therefore, carry these treatises. In addition, of course, to convey a totally xenophobic speech to society, with falsehoods such as that strangers are the ones who benefit from help to the detriment of Spanish people, which is totally false. I'm done. Look, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, you with this young man wanted to save Catalonia. And with this young man, we have added, even more, that we must save Catalonia from you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.53.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.54.0	Thank you, President. Social policies with a perspective sensitive to the social diversity of the country are used to being titular of ideology for the formation proposing this young man, as we have already felt until satiety every fifteen days in this chamber. But the reality is that the data tells us that we have forty-five percent of the population with difficulty to arrive at the end of the month; yet concretely 21.7 percent of people in Catalonia live under the shadow of the poor; 9.8 percent have a low intensity of work, which means that they work less than twenty percent of their working ability, according to the age. And we have a population with a 6.2 of severe material deprivation, which means we can't afford at least four of the new basic consumption concepts that the European Union establishes, things like being able to eat meat or fish three times a week, not having the ability to cope with unforeseen expenses, not having a phone, television, renter, etc. If we believe these data and continue to detail them, we see that in these percentages, gender segregation is..., in women, a 1.5 greater than in men. Therefore, we have a very clear question of gender as to the impact on the poor. As for the administrative situation, we also see that people who migrate from non-EU countries raise this rate of forty-five_per_cent of average to 54.2, before 18.1_per_cent of the population hidden in the Spanish State and 19.5_per_cent of the hidden to other countries of the European Union. If we continue to intersect data, we see that nearly sixty per cent of the women migrated have this exceptional situation of poor risk. And if we continue to transfer it to trans communities, we see eighth_per_cent occupation taxes—that's, like, a zero-dos_per_cent of the time. These data... are still missing, which can't be collected because the ones on his rope did something wrong in his day, in the past, making ethnic nets. Therefore, these data come from entities, from organizations in the sector that this training continues to name "xiringuitos". And maybe they are, huh? But if the syringuites serve for something more than to deal with the impacts of the poor and the inequalities of the population, it is to have specific data. Other specific data are held by the National Institute of Statistics – the Idescat. And we, in fact, are also in favour of eliminating the syringuites, starting with the largest syringuite, which is the Government of Spain, the syringuite of the 78th Regime. [[Widow's remorse.]] So when we talk about social policies based on data and material realities, which is what we are told about these percentages of what we have talked about and on what is based on the social policies that are so critical of, what we are talking about is social policies to guarantee the life worthy of the majority. We are talking about universal basic income as an autonomous basis of existence, because to eradicate the poor who pay the most they have. That everyone has the same point of exit from where to develop their lives worthily. It's about habitating, because decent habitating is a right and not a commodity in the service of accumulation. Therefore, guaranteeing decent housing for everyone means increasing the public housing stock, regulating the price of the logger, expropriating the floors in the hands of great tempers and votive foundations, and, obviously, the political defense of the occupation. We're also talking about working less to work everyone, because it's not about competing to lower production costs and getting the job done the most; it's about no one getting in the way. And, therefore, it would reduce working hours, set a minimum wage of EUR 1,200, recognise the work of cures, and, ultimately, prevent the destruction of viable work places. It should also deprivate public services, such as health or education, to ensure that no one is left behind regardless of their administrative or economic situation; strengthen primary care and provide resources for local authorities; and guarantee free and universal access to social rights. Therefore, before interested classists, xenophobs and destroys, they call social policies to guarantee life worthy of all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.55.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.56.0	Thank you, President. Since in the previous interventions, for one band, this false concern for the family has been unravelled; for another band, in another intervention, there has been talk of concrete data that show the need and the impact that crises – in plural – have on women, on LGBTBI collectivities and on people who have migrated or racialized, we believe that now what it is to do a little bit of an analysis of how these discourses are, don't we? , that what they want, as we have always said, is a narrower democracy, where no one cares – they don't want people who are migrated, except if they are multinational foreign speculators, no Gypsy people, no LGBTI people, no Muslims, no feminists, no women who care about awe-inspiring –..., we place the emphasis and we continue to put the emphasis on elucidating democracy. And here... expanding and getting right from the hand of all these collections that pose in counterposition to themselves, we think it's the way. But we have to say that generic complaints and institutional appeal to democratic values are not enough. Neoliberal policies based on meritocracy, which precisely the extreme right defense day after day, because the concentration every day is in less hands..., precisely this type of policies is what leads us to situations of as much crisis as we are now. Until now, most of the parties in this hemisphere have chosen not to confront neoliberalism, and, on the contrary, to strengthen it, leaving us with public servants who are affluent, who have also suffered, and still more, during the pandemic. And that's a good free space because these hypocritical speeches take up more space. And that's why brave, sufficiently gifted policies are called for. And now, during the assumptions, we have a precise opportunity to strengthen even more the state of welfare to the detriment of this vision of the extreme right, that you believe that the Public Administration works as a private company or that they can use elements as delicate and as hard as the poor child, the poor energy or the system of attention to dependence. We believe that only if in the next few years – and we insist that now the assumptions will be an opportunity to reverse it – we are able, in some way, to rethink this social contract and institutions and how to address possible inequalities and how to draw scenes of future concrete..., so only to be able to cope with discourses as simple as these. We believe that realising the 700_millions of the social security plan that has been announced since the first days of the investment debate and that even today we do not have a way to confront these speeches. We believe that also to shield and strengthen the guaranteed income of citizenry, not to detail it respecting the previous premise, but to strengthen it as effective politics, also protagonist in the struggle against the poor child and to expand it so that it reaches everyone..., this is another way to confront these kinds of discourses. We believe that armoring public services with an emphasis on social and welfare services to the addiction sector, transforming the model, is another way. We believe that matching aid to single-maritime families with family names, as has been said before, is also another way. Ensuring the right to housing with a presuppositional endowment with a focus on public housing construction, with legislation that, each time more, shields the habitat as a right, is another way forward. We believe that diversifying the economy into a greener, feminist model and with a decent occupation is also a way forward. And that, in all the territories of Catalonia – not just in the city, but in every territory and every bar, as has been said before – the strength of the municipal authorities is another way to confront these simplistic discourses. And finally, to say that white supremacy will always need immigrants, will always need the gifts to build an identity in contrast to that. I'm not without building you in contrast to everything else. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. So, well, if you're not built against all these identities you're criminalizing, what's left? And that, well, that's the question we're going to ask ourselves. In this sense, we defend that to make policies against the extreme right, we insist, is to make social policies strong and redistributive. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.58.0	Members, Members, President... Mrs García, I think it is good that we have a debate on the need for social rights and social protection in this Parliament, and that we have on the table, in this debate, all the views of this plenary. In the end, all of us here represent Catalan citizens who have also voted for our vision of tackling social policies. Ours, we have always said, is a liberal vision, which I must say does not coincide in many respects with that of VOX. It's nothing; we don't agree in many respects with the CUP either. I think, in the end, what we can say is that we agree on the diagnosis. We are, therefore, in a situation of extreme social gravity, and I believe that we have to deal with a whole series of proposals that must be used to get us out of this crisis. We have spoken – and we have done so in the Committee on Social Rights, this time – about what data we have in Catalonia. We are at the tail, in many respects, of all Spain, and also at the tail, unfortunately, in the response and in the construction of that social protection. I'm going in and I'm going to try to get what I think can be good from the proposals made by Mrs García. In some cases I think we can agree, and in others, we will certainly not agree. Increased social protection is necessary. We believe that the budgets are insufficient. I'm sorry, Counselor, but we already told you in committee. We believe that this is insufficient, because we needed a qualitative change in dealing with the reality in which we find ourselves after the pandemic. You're talking about... and I think it's right, when you're talking about conducting an external audit... to really see, then, what we're spending the money on in the Generalitat. We have always defended it since 2006: we, as a party, believe in transparency, and we often believe in administrative simplification. You talk about a single window of social services. In this case, I think this is a good measure. I think we should be able to implement this. And I think in this case... we, for example, have already done it in Andalusia, and in Andalusia it has worked. In fact, the waiting list that had accumulated, for example, in health, has been reduced. And, therefore, I think it is an appropriate measure that we should take. They also talk about having more resources for dependency; totally agree. More resources for children; totally agree. They also talk about measures against energy poverty. In this we also agree, but we also want to remember that much of the energy skills we have in the Congress of Deputies. Budgets are being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX, introduce amendments, which have not tabled any amendments to the budgets. Ciutadans, with ten Members, has tabled five hundred amendments, and you, zero. You have to work there, too. We have to work to make..., and modify proposals many times that we consider inappropriate. We agree that reports should be made on the situation of social exclusion in Catalonia. It is clear that, in this case, there is a certain deficit on the part of the Generalitat as far as the attention to the citizens of Catalonia is concerned. When we begin to see strangely the vision of the motion..., and much of it I have already told you that we can vote on it, because I believe that they are measures of common sense, and, in this case, we can agree with other groups, although they will certainly not vote for them, but surely we would agree..., but when you speak of a family perspective..., it has already been said here, the family perspective as such makes no more sense than to understand, as we understand, families – with that –, plural families. All families, Mrs. García. The services and social protection must be made, built for all families: large families, single-parent families, LGTBI families, adoptive families, foster families; families – with that. Because the equality of different family models in access to social rights cannot be discussed; because equality, which is a liberal principle in our liberal democracies, cannot be discussed. And that's essential. And from there, with those elements and with those characteristics, we can then talk about other perspectives or other priorities, as you say. And the last question I ask you: when you talk about national priority, what do we do with the citizens of the European Union? Or do you not believe in Europe either? What do we do with the citizens of the European Union who must also have access to these social services? Do we depriorize their attention, their access? Have you given any thought? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.59.0	Then, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.60.0	Thank you very much, President. You see, I think there are two premises that for me are an obvious: one, that defending the right to life today is not fashionable, and the other is that defending the family today is not fashionable. And if we ever get into the concept of a large family, here they come across all the complexes of the world and all the sectarianism of the world; it's not fashionable. So to me – I have to say – I'm fine with what's fashionable or not. We defended him. We defend the right to life and we defend the family. And when we have to go into a debate about whether or not you are a family or a family, whether or not you are lost in what is not important. "Family is" family, organizes itself as it is organized, composes it that composes it. And no one here is making a difference in anything or feeling sectarian in anything. And, no doubt, we're not the politicians, the ones we have to go to say how to organize a family or what, who and how they'll hear it's their family. Birth and family support policies are not on government agendas, they are not a priority. In fact, here we don't have a family counseling – hard mistake, serious mistake. A society that wraps up and where birth causes is unsustainable, but we are more concerned about regulating death than about regulating life, and it's another hard mistake. Yesterday the counselor, to my question at the government control session, defined me as a form of social organization. So no, Counselor, I know very hard. The family is something much more than just a social organization. The family is the basic pillar of any society, and it is the basic pillar of support for people who conform to it. And that's one thing they need to be very present. They didn't help with the youth emancipation. It's not a job for academic excellence, sooner or later, we've seen it lately. And that means less quality. These are elements that directly affect the fall of birth. There are many factors that question motherhood: job stability, access to help, the economic situation. And that has to be reversed. We need to put family and birth policies on the political agenda. Whoever wants to be a mother, who wants to be a father, must be a mother and must be a father. And any other element of any other type does not have to be an impediment to this. In Madrid they have quadrupled the autonomic reversal in birth policies; in the Basque Country or in Galicia they have specific autonomic programs that work to increase the birth rate. What are we doing here? What are we doing? Res. What part of the premise has been devoted to policies that promote birth? Who's leaving? I don't see any politics in this sense. With reference to the question I asked you yesterday, Madam Counselor, she replied that there were many indirect aids. So that's a problem – it's a problem. A lot of resources are allocated from the 2022 budget, presumably to families, we say, dispersed. Dispersal of resources and aid that responds to policies that are not exclusively focused on helping families – not just the vulnerable, all families – is a bad idea. We can't disperse resources. And the reality is what it is – I said yesterday –: EUR 10.9 million with a budget of EUR 38,000 million for family support measures. Clearly, it's insufficient. Clearly, we don't give the value you have to the family. And clearly we're wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.61.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.62.0	All right. [[The timer laughs.]] They've introduced here a young man coming out of the VOX factory, huh? It has all the standards: true myths, many lies, misrepresentations of numbers, very interesting comparisons – sometimes, because they quadruple the numbers, add, remain, take those and pose the others – and a very rhetorical language. Some examples: « erratic line of action of the Government of the Generality – which is what it is, aiò – « progressive and separatist ideology inevitably implies legislative disorientation, collectivization of social policy or political waste and ideological spending... Fantástic. I'm not going to get into the background of this young man. What I will explain to you is what the government intends to do, which it has expressed in the assumptions, to solve the social situation that the country has. Miri, has presented a presumption of 38,000_millions, but will allocate 74.6_per_cent to social policies. The Department of Social Rights has a budget of 3,860_million euros, 30,3_percent more in homogeneous competitions than it had in the 2020 fiscal year, which is the last budget approved. I congratulate you, Counselor, that I have not greeted you before, for having been able to bring this assumption to government. Why? To promote personal autonomy, which you talked to us about having an interest in closing people to... I don't know where we wanted to lock them. So no. We want to promote people's autonomy. Precisely, this premise allocates 52_million to be able to provide home care to people so that they can be in their home, wrap up in their home. Or, if they want to wrap up in residences, this same premise devotes 28_million– 28_million– to increasing residential places for large people, or people with disabilities, or people with problems arising from mental illness. Or 27_million in economic services linked to the service of people who want to go to a residence and that the Generality finances them a share. Or EUR 162 million in making equipment or remodeling existing ones, which made many years, advises, that the Generalitat did not spend money on laying totxo, some totxos that are found to be missing in the system. Or allocates 746_millions to give support to families for social inclusion and in the struggle against the poor. Families of all classes! It's just... I'm not talking about family anymore. There's no one in the class. Every child you see there, at my house, friends of my children, has a family structured differently. I'm not talking about it anymore. There is no family type anymore; there are many families. There are many ways of structuring. Just like I don't talk about young immigrants anymore. It's all right, it's all right. Too much work they have to be young and develop, because you continually – continuously – talk and guilt at all. Not to mention the money that this government will allocate to housing: about 156_per_cent more – a 156_per_cent more – than the year 2020, up to 637_million euros. To ensure people's right to have a habitat, increase public park or improve habitat conditions. Or energy efficiency. Don't say we don't care about people. The government is very interested in people. We are very interested in people, as you can see, if trees don't stop them from seeing the forest. They are based on false premises and make erroneous conclusions. And they are misconceptions, making this policy, taking advantage of democracy to destroy it, not serving families or people, which is what we should do in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.63.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr. Bartomeu Account.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.64.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are in front of a motion on social policies full of very unfortunate and misguided considerations; a maneuver of the neoliberal extreme right to try to pretend to be a defender of disadvantaged people, when in reality what they are defending... are on the side of those who are pre-charging a good part of the working class. But don't worry: if they really care about the social situation in our country, I have good news for you and everyone, because we are..., and we are at the side of people. That is why we project the four revolutions opposed to its ideology in the 2022 project of assumptions: the feminist, green, democratic and social transformation. To make it possible we will allocate three_of_every_four euros to social policies: education, health, social rights, housing, occupation, public transport... All this goes for families too, this is of calaix. Or, said in another way, because this is an extraordinary assumption, it will be 5,022_million euros foreign to politics throughout the city, of which one_of_each_two euros is destined for education and salvation. And, more concretely, in the field of health, 585_million euros will be allocated to improving hospitals and primary care centres and buying sanitary supplies, and about 500_million euros to continue facing the pandemic. On the other hand, you defend co-payments and re-centralisation – they said it this morning here – and they argue even the whole right to the universality of sanitation for everyone. In education, we will allocate €90_million for the free education of children from two to three years – no €30_million, as Mrs Moreta said – and we will reduce the rates to P3 – in concrete terms, from twenty-five to twenty students per class. We will also allocate 291_million euros that will allow the continuity of more than 4,400 professionals of education in the course 21-22. It's all on the premise. In change, VOX defense send public resources to private colleges, among which..., some secret by sex. In housing policies – said previously – 410_million euros, reaching a total of 749_million euros. On the other hand, VOX can only present motions against the occupation of habitats, obviating the great tenors with more than two-thousand empty floors – such as the Blackstone – while we have a large part of the population with difficulties to emancipate themselves and preus of giant or excessive loguers. Four hundred million more will go to the guaranteed income of the citizenry, which is not a closed quantity, it is an open quantity, in itself more beneficiaries. It is a right subject of each person who fulfills the requirements. Meanwhile, VOX carries measures such as tax reductions for the great hereus, covert financing to private school and maintain the privileges of great fortunes and businesses. It is also established that between Social Rights and Business and Work there will be more than 17_million euros to condone the debt of 35,000 vulnerable families in the area of energy poverty. In change, VOX defends the IRPF's bid to which they least win and bring it down to the highest level. Equally, the Department of Equality and Feminisms consolidates 92_million euros in its first exercise, and doubles the presupposition for prevention, attention and repair of male violence – with 31_million euros. It is such a simple question as social justice, social recognition of the woman and equal opportunities. That's what he's looking for. In change, VOX held a negationist speech about male violence. And yesterday late, he made it very clear in this same Faristol. And there is also an increase of EUR 120_million for energy efficiency policies. And the public energy company's inn is planned for 2022 to guarantee Community sub-administration and at reasonable cost and based on renewable sources. Ladies and gentlemen, this government of Catalonia does present social measures, it is at the expense of people and the service of all citizens. And, unlike you, this parliamentary group and this government will not be shaken by their policies in social cohesion and taking into account all the citizens of Catalonia. We bet all the citizens of Catalonia and social justice in Catalonia and gun. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.65.0	Thank you very much. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna do this noon before he suspends the session. [[Eva Parera and Escrichs ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Parera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.66.0	Thank you, President. It's to ask for a separate vote from point 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.67.0	All right. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the control mechanisms of the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad ……]] [[302-00050/13]] So let's move on to the split of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the mechanisms of control of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance. To give us the presentation, Mr. Ramon Swordler has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.68.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen... We were going to make an inquiry, in the past Ple, that carried this title that the President has now expressed – "on the mechanisms of control of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra –, a little alarm for some statements in quality – of fact, in pectore, still, but... – of the chairman of the committee that we would push, that has already been created and that we would put in a very short march, of revision, of study, on the police model, both public and police, therefore, on behalf of the deputy that the President, Mrs Sabater, in which she gave three sentences that she would like to remember, because they are in the background of what we are planting. The first said: "The police thing brings more insecurity than security. The second sentence, pronounced formally, huh? , and as the chairman of this committee: "It's a hundred-and-a-half-degree turn in the police. And the third reflection on this press wheel was: "We have to go to a truly democratic police model. From here, we, with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units – and I think they should not be the only ones of this chamber – therefore, we disagree. Dissentim, the many. We don't think the police thing brings more insecurity than security. We are in the opposite of this; we believe that the police thing brings security, with imperfections, many times, but in any case, the major thing is that it brings security. In the second case, that does not, therefore, result in this turn of one hundred and forty degrees. And for us – and this is not a minor issue, it is not just a topic of speeches – the police model is truly democratic; perfectable, as everything else, but truly democratic. It's subject to controls that work, that are effective. And this was a bit of a debate we were going to do at the back of Ple. They stop, so we have presented a motion that basically says three things – you have it; you have it, you have it. In the first place: "We express our support for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in the exercise of its functions, which it has attributed under the rules in force, and we ask to promote those actions necessary to restore and strengthen the authority of the Police of the Generality. So... it seems to us an obvious thing, to have to vote on this, but we have come to a point, when we see these pronouncements, that we think it should somehow close it down. One_second says: "We see the effectiveness, effectiveness and sufficiency of the control mechanisms of the police activity – in this sense, of the police activity – "established for the existing legislation respects the Police of the Generality - Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Here... If we want to say it in another way: we disagree with the start – and I mean with this clarity – that we should create mechanisms, external to the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. And a third point: "We urge the government to assess and, if you scale, increase human and presupposed resources – so much so that more human resources fall as if more material resources fall, presupposed..." – "so as to continue to ensure the effectiveness of the Internal Affairs Division attached to the Directorate General of Police, which is the body in charge of controlling... So we're putting this young man at the door to start the work of a committee. That the progress that we are going to make today is a work plan that, with what we have seen and what we have heard from the same chairman of the committee, will be quite alternative to what we believe this proposal will be. We agree to review aspects, we agree to improve aspects, but we believe that, if we want to go deeper into this committee, too – and this will be the hard core of our proposal – we need to listen to the alternative, the view not of those who are manifested – which are also – but of those who are not manifested, of those who are affected by the consequences: of those people who see the Meridian cut indefinitely, during days and months; of those who see their business vandalized; of those people who see the expectation of tourism in horror because the images we project from the city are the ones they are. And, therefore, there are the advances and announcements that we will put the focus on this issue. Talk about the police and talk about public order? Yes, but from the public order of all the perspectives: from the perspective of those who are manifested, it would only be lacking; from the police perspective, it would only be lacking; from the perspective of the administrations, essential; but also from the perspective of those citizens who respect a fundamental right such as that of manifestation, who do not manifest themselves to suffer many times two things: either the vandal action of irresponsible people who must be relentlessly persecuted by the police, or the inefficiency of the Administration, when it is not possible to process the reports of the local police – Gardia Urbana de Barcelona or of the Mosos d'Esquadra – before repeated heights, and persistent and continued for a year, in the concrete case of Meridiana. Inefficiency of administration or vandalism on the part of energetics who must be persecuted. This will be our proposal. Thank you, Madam President; ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.69.0	It has the word, then, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.70.0	Good morning, President. Counselor, dear fellow Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, at 1 point we may no longer question the support, recognition, trust, respect, of this Government of the Generality to our police bodies, right? Haven't we shown this before? Yes, Mr. Swordler, we have already manifested it several times. And yes – yes, yes –, obviously and as always, from Junts we give support to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. But know that we will vote abstained, given that you want us to play your game. And you know very well that in the matter of restoring and strengthening the authority you need to know enough. Because the authority has to make a good use of it, and you know what we're talking about. And that's why we have the special commission on the police model. That's why you didn't accept any of the papers, did you? Please, let's start being more proactive. Rather than repeat papers presented in this Parliament and rejected, with the clear intention of making political filibusterism around the body. Perhaps we stop repeating motions in this Parliament, expressing one and the other time the same and of which we have already obtained a consensus text for the vast majority. What the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra wants is for us to stop partisanship and move forward in the best of the structure. As for staff, increasing it and investing it in their training. And investment in investments, renewing them and equipping them with new and better tools– clothing, equipment, vehicles and management mechanisms–, digitizing and technifying systems to achieve more effective equipment. Everything – everything – in short, to improve their work. And that's already on the loose, where it's supposed to be the next 2022; a assumption that increases its expenditure by 131_million euros, allocating 79_million euros to Chapter 1 in staff expenditure, and 52_million euros in investment and current expenditure. Mil_sis-cents_million euros for 2022 at the Department of Interior. Let's focus, please, on adopting a decent assumption to serve our citizens. It's on. And as everything is better and perfectable, efficiency and sufficiency too. It's also about strengthening the safety model, yes. And as we have an excellent police body, a thing qualified as the best institutions valued for the citizenry, a thing always open to the democratic debate, to the point of questioning itself more control and transparency mechanisms than those required by its own law... that of a police officer evolving, growing, adapting. The one from a cop who's asking us to shout at everyone here. And why things still happen, such as the case of the new Lledoners, the case of Marcel Vivet or the case of the photojournalist of El País, Albert Garcia, among many others. That's why we have a new working mechanism in place, this one, to improve it and strengthen it: the Special Study Commission of the Police Model, in which we are working all the parliamentary groups represented in this chamber, which we all have to see and vote on. And as we all see and vote for the committee, it's worth it not to go ahead because of the line behind, sabotage the committee itself before the hour, unless it's even begun. Because our police want to continue to be able to defend the security and freedom of individual rights, as has been demonstrated by the Security Administration's inquiries: with a notable. Therefore, we make every effort to move forward and not to move forward. We don't work from constant questioning, until we use third parties and our own to try to get it right or to get it all figured out. The 14th of February marked a path: fifty-two-per-cent. A democratic, legitimate, full path that entrusted us with the responsibility of a government that is doing everything possible to meet the burden. We told you a short time ago: we protect the body, strengthen it and make it grow, give it more legitimacy and recognition from the mark of a democratic society; we will go for it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.71.0	Subsequently and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the Member of Parliament, Núria Picas, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.72.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, conseller, the deputies, deputies. We have on the table again, and per quarter Full Consequences, questions about public safety, on the Squadron Mosses – per quarter Full Consequences. We'll say it from the start because it's beginning to be exposed – and Junts' company has already pointed it out –: rather than partying, right and wrong, the public security of this country; rather than instrumentalizing the debate; using it to tension the professionals does not help to improve neither the body nor the model nor the management. All the opposite: tension and partisanship the debate. And this is the card you've decided to play, gentlemen of the PSC. And that's what the PSC is doing here in the Parliament of Catalonia with everything you have to see with the Squad. It's what the PP is doing, Ciutadans, VOX to Congress of Deputies with the PSOE government and United We can respect the law bite; it's exactly the same. [[Some applause.]] That said... that said, I'd like to make a quick assessment of the points that you present in this young man. First of all, I'm surprised I insist on strengthening our police authority. Confounding the company's requirement and the self-requirement of the body when they saw actions that they did not like to put in doubt the authority is a mistake. Nevertheless, we give full support to the Police of the Generality, to the Mossos d'Esquadra. And we've already said that about right and wrong. I've said it endlessly. We give it full support. We continue to have the firm commitment to make a police thing that I act in an integral way, that is closer, more democratic, to the service of the citizenry and that guarantees, in short, the free exercise of individual and collective rights and freedoms. With respect to point number 2, it respects the mechanisms of control of police performance, as we need, it is clear that we need it. And we have undertaken to work on it in a committee to study the police model, which is why it was created. Therefore, we cannot be allowed to vote on anything that presupposes an already predetermined position. And that was also done in accordance with the motion put forward by the Parliamentary Group in Comú Pueblo. And that says more than anything because what you intend to manifest is something that is subject to debate in this committee. We'll wait for them. I'm coming to the space we've been gifted to do it and we'll get through this party debate to make a fundraiser. They don't make us think that they're moving the party and that they don't have any real interest in the cosos of the squadrons or in the public safety of our citizens and our citizens. And thirdly, taxing and implementing control measures requires a greater effort and what we have to debate is how to do it. You want to predetermine the conclusions resulting from the study commission without debate and imposing. So here we won't be found. Finally, our parliamentary group will refrain from respecting point number 1, since it is still not in the form, as I said earlier, of the use of the Squad's Cos de Mossos. We will vote against the second, since what they claim is envisaged as an objective to treat the study committee, as we did, as I said before, with the proposal as opposed to common ones. And we will vote in favour of the third point because we understand that the Directorate of Internal Affairs is already an existing control mechanism between the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad. By all means, our intention is also to debate and reach agreement through political consensus, to review and change everything that is needed. The public order model, the functioning, the control mechanisms respect police actions, transparency, how we adapt the police to the reptes of the 21st century, new forms of crime, police proximity, reinforcement in mediation, feminization of the body, etc. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we've agreed on and that's what we're going to do. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.73.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, to fix his word after the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.74.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Counselor, the PSC is presenting us today with a motion that must be recognized as a virtue, which is brief. It is defined in three very simple points: respect for the principle of authority, sufficiency of the mechanisms of control and evaluation and, where appropriate, increase of the means of the DAI, of the Divisio d'Afers Interns. On the first point, we must restore – of course we must restore the – dignity and authority of the Mossos and also of the other police officers operating in Catalonia, the Civil Guard and the National Police. And we have stated this since the beginning of the legislature. For more than fifteen years, the Mossos have faced a serious problem: the discredit to which they are subjected from the Generalitat itself. And that discredit and lack of support has led to the loss of the principle of authority to preside over police action. That constant questioning, that lack of support for the Mossos d'Esquadra, has several responsible in addition to the Generalitat. On the one hand, political parties like Junts, like Esquerra, like In Comú Puem, like the CUP's anti-system, that have come to say..., to call the Mossos d'Esquadra « public danger. Of course, if that is to support the Mossos d'Esquadra, it is a bad way to support the Mossos d'Esquadra. Also responsible are the media of public ownership, the media like Catalunya Ràdio, registering as a Tertullian of a radio program to a condemned for assaulting the Mossos. And they are also responsible for this discredit institutions such as the Parliament of Catalonia itself, which in the last award of honour medals has awarded the director of the digital VilaWeb, Mr.Vinct Partal, who in that same act advocated without blushing himself for dissolving Brimo. Of course, to reward those who want to load the law enforcement units, much does not help to reinforce the image of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And, of course, decisions like these have serious consequences for the erosion of the authority of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And that's so obvious and so serious that now everyone dares with them. Proof of this are the unfortunate episodes that we had to suffer and see, like the one at Tiana's biggest party on September 20th, in which the agents had to run away, chased by a crowd throwing bottles and all kinds of objects at them. But gentlemen of the PSC, respecting the principle of authority also means giving the police legal certainty in their actions. And the reform of the law of citizen security, which is pushing the PSOE with its communist partners, which no longer even come to discuss this issue because they care little..., they are pushing with them, with Bildu, with Esquerra and with the PNV; it will be the dot that has just sentenced the State Security Forces and Bodies. This reform leaves the police defenceless from the violent. The National Police and the Civil Guard have already announced that they will be demonstrating in the near future, a massive demonstration to which will, by the way, come a lot of mossos. And if the cops aren't protected in their work, they're hardly going to be able to protect the others. So be consistent, because it is not worth demanding respect for the principle of authority in Parliament and, at the same time, leaving the police at the foot of the horses in the Congress of Deputies. And as for the control mechanisms, from VOX we also think that the current ones are sufficient and efficient, which means that they have the capacity to fulfill their function. The communists and the anti-systems, already say this in the motion for a resolution setting up the Commission of Study on the Police Model, talk about the creation of a public mechanism for monitoring and evaluating police actions. In other words, to establish an external control mechanism for the Mossos. And, of course, I imagine they would also love to direct it, as good communists. And we disagree, because an external mechanism easily becomes a mechanism of political control. And we don't need a big brother, let alone a big communist brother who watches over and controls the Mossos politically. The Mossos already have internal control through the Internal Affairs Division, provided it is neutral and apolitical, and external control if there is timely bad practice, through the courts and tribunals, which are responsible for deciding whether or not a performance is in accordance with law. As far as the Internal Affairs Division is concerned, we will vote against this point. And we will vote against it, because today the political parties and the Division of Afers Internals often exercise political commissioners acting with double standards. On the one hand, for the independenceist mossos and, on the other, for those who seek to support the constitutional order. And, look, sometimes disciplinary tools are used to threaten, for example, mossos for speaking in Spanish or for being affiliated with certain police unions, in which case, on many occasions, a real witch hunt takes place. From VOX we want to demand, from this rostrum, respect for the ideological plurality of mossos within the Corps of Mossos d'Esquadra, avoiding persecution against any agent for ideological or political reasons, as we know has happened and is happening. And we will be especially vigilant at this point, so that Internal Affairs strictly fulfills its function, which is, on the one hand, to investigate and, on the other hand, to report possible illegal or unethical behaviors within the body, but in no case to carry out ideological purges. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.75.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.76.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Happy Marmot Day, MPs and MPs of the PSC. In any case, the one who seems to have failed to win by majority try to win by abhorrence, at the risk of averting yourself and the rest of the hemicicle. That said, "authority. We have said, we have repeated it and we have repeated it: the authority to the paper endures everything, but the authority, beyond the legal requirement, either it has or is won in the day-to-day and is lost very easily. And not to put it any more time there will be more authority beyond the legal requirement. For what it does to... well, say, that, obviously, we will vote against this young man. We could share the most resources for control, but in any case we don't share the fund or the fund strategy, as other groups have already said. What he's doing to the control mechanisms that's right now in Squad Mosses, it's not that the Squad Mosses don't work, it's that they don't work in the world's war police, because the model is structurally ill-planned. Because the dependence in the organizational chart of a control mechanism in a functional sector characterized to be very corporate and little transparent, not only here, but also in the world, supposes that these mechanisms do not work well and are not enough. Does that mean we have to load this mechanism? We don't think so. There is a mechanism, which is the internal control mechanism of the proper Interior Department, the police department, whether you are here or in any state in the world; there is another mechanism, which is the judiciary, which also has its shortcomings, as we have already seen, and there is a need for a third mechanism. And that's what the CUP says. I understand that there is a majority of Parliamentarians who also think so and that in their moment they will already position themselves. I say I get it. But well, anyway, that's position when I think it's right and in the Commission's mark on the police model or when you need it, but I understand that there's also a majority in Parliament. And I understand that communist and anti-system states, such as Canada, England, Wales, Denmark, New Zealand, Austria, Belgium and the United States, that already have mechanisms of this type working today, must have seen that perhaps there are not enough internal control mechanisms of those that are equipped with police bodies. Anyway, I'm into it, aren't I? And some examples of why this mechanism is needed and why it is not working well enough right now in the control and what is not working well enough now in the follow-up and taxation of police actions with the current mechanisms, and which would not be better, in our opinion, a greater funding. We have six agents of the Squadron Mosses who continue in action after the racist aggression with UVI in Manresa. We have a denunciation that there was this scale – certainly from a family vulnerable to the Hospitallet – in which police officers did not correctly carry the identified number. We have three eyes lost by hunger without the possibility of identifying the authors. If these are not examples that the mechanisms neither judicial nor internal are not enough, if this is acceptable for an administration with which in other areas it is absolutely demanding for what it does to mechanisms of control, and we share it, both for what it does to corruption, as for what it does to administrative practices, as for what it does to individual practices, why not with a thing that, moreover, has the particularity that the monopoly of the use of force and uses lethal weapons? Why not, in this thing? Why not, in this area of administration? We don't understand – we don't understand. We don't share it. We invite you to rectify it and, in any case, I believe that we will have enough debate space, enough contrast space compared to other world-wide patterns, that of phylocommunists and anti-systems do not have anything to do with it, and that they can be at the opposite end of the ideological realm of many of the objects that we do like CUP, and that they advance us through the left in a bold way in this realm, and that they advance them through the left also, in a bold way, to you. So, I think it's been lauded. I think they've managed to stretch a cup that could hardly be stretched any longer, with a few pretensions that they might have to try to lay down at the side of the body, but to take a political verdict. And, I don't know, if they want to go on like this, it's their decision. In any case, we are talking about this in the Commission on the Police Model, and we are talking seriously and rigorously about the need for a public control model, independent, with fiscal capacity, with sanction capacity, with citizen participation capacity and that can act as an office and that can be operating in parallel with other mechanisms that already exist, such as internal control mechanisms or justice. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.77.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.78.0	Thank you, President. Well, we practically disagree with the totality of this young man, even though we will abstain at the third point, huh? We disagree, first of all, in the fact that the Squadron Mosses are losing authority: the police have the authority recognized by law – therefore, by definition –; they have the monopoly of the use of force, and, if that is not enough, they are held back by the presumption of truth. Moreover, it is protected with a specific criminal type, which is the speed of the authority, and, above all, we have already seen many cases where convictions have also been made for hate crimes against the police, a type of crime that was not created with this purpose. So, you're authorized to have it. And we believe that we want to install in the image collection this idea of the loss of authority is dangerous, because the receipts to make it face it is very easy that they are receipts that correlate in the reduction of rights and fundamental freedoms and, therefore, in a democratic deterioration. Secondly, we also disagree with the second point of this motion, in considering that the current mechanisms for controlling police activity are effective and sufficient; in fact, we think the opposite. And so we believe, as the different entities of human rights believe, that one of the objectives of the Commission of Study on the Police Model must, precisely, be to establish an external control and accountability mechanism that guarantees independent and impartial scrutiny of the police apparatus, And, listen, it's said now, huh? But as it exists in other countries, the United Kingdom, Belgium, Ireland, Norway, the United States...; therefore, we are not inventing anything else, it is about implementing an innovative, advanced, modern mechanism in terms of democracy and human rights, but above all we believe it is about a mechanism that is needed here in Catalonia. And to the fets in return, huh? That is to say, only in the last two years, at least five people have suffered heavy injuries from foam balls shot at the top of the head, we have seen racist attacks on the part of agents of the Squadron Mosses, we have seen moves hitting the police defense over the waist, we have seen overruns with the carousel technique – all this only in the last two years. And what was the systemic and systemic response before that, before these evil practices? In most cases there has been impunity; an impunity explained in good measure by the lack of instruments, precisely, of control; and also by the lack of transparency. And it's true that here we've made advances in the last few days, that it's an advance the police identification number, even though it's not always being used; it's an advance the publication of instructions from different police tools; but we believe that, besides, we have another problem, that it's an excess of corporatism within the body, a thing that tends to self-cover these practical evils. And that can't be. This has to be done and I need to change it. He also said: Photojournalist Albert Garcia was arrested and falsely accused, and it was the judge who determined that the version of the agent of the Mossos was not supported. The case of the new Lledoners... Certainly, one of the agents who accused Lledoners' new was the corporal involved in the racist aggression of the Bages. A few days before, another similar case, of false accusation not subsisting on the part of the judge. But when this false accusation cannot be proved, then what prevails is the presumption of truth on the part of the agent of the Mossos. And we have cases like that of Adrian Sas, who has been convicted of the presumption of truth of Jordi Arasa, an agent convicted on different occasions for attacks on demonstrators. This is the reality we have. A reality in which the accountability mechanisms do not find the proper functioning mechanism, which they find many interbanks to be able to function, to detect, sanction, correct the use of force contrary to international standards, which is to which we are referring. For this reason, we believe that we need to assess in which way these internal and external control mechanisms can be equipped with more means, greater independence, legal procedures and greater transparency. And this is the object, or one of the objectives we have to pursue with the Police Model Study Commission. And that's exactly why we're abstaining from point 3, because we agree that we're calling more resources for internal mechanisms, that we're calling more resources for the DAI, but we're abstaining because what we don't share with what you're saying is that it's already working or that the DAI is now effectively ensuring its function. We think no, we think it's insufficient; that's exactly why more resources are falling. And we will also abstain from this later point, as I have already mentioned, for another reason, and it is the motivator, which is that we believe that there is not enough to strengthen internal mechanisms, but the challenge we have, which is to ensure that we effectively make a truly democratic police, as they have done in other countries, is the establishment of an external and absolutely independent control mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.79.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.80.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Counselor, Members of Parliament, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress are proposed, for the third Full Consequence, and from the hand of the ex-Interior Counselor, Mr. Ramon Swordler, a motion on the Squadron Mossos. In the same terms, up to five more groups have been debated; one of them from the group representing the political party to which the current Councillor of the Interior belongs and which is cohabiting with the Government of the Generality with the party, or whatever, with which the hegemony of reactionary separatism is fiercely disputed. Third full result with motions on Mossos and fourth result in which is talk about security and Mossos, if we take into account the questions. It's not bad people. In fact, if the Citizens' Parliamentary Group disposed of the same amount of questions and motions as the group that would currently have to lead the opposition to the Government, we would most likely have done the same: talking about Mossos and security, as we are doing on the street and in institutions whenever we have occasion. Because of this, the issue of public security and the deal that the Police of the Generality, the Mosso d'Esquadra, are coming upon, on the part of the current government, makes it essential to talk about it. The motion put to us by Socialists and Units to move forward asks a little, that it may seem a lot, and it gives in fact that the internal control mechanisms of which the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra is available are not only insufficient, but also effective. I must confess that, once I read the motion we are debating, I had the urge to present papers; not at first, but yes, I had a first impulse to present papers to the motion. Then I thought that what I wanted to talk about in this young man... the one who gave the young man per fact, especially in his third point, went further than a young man's dream, which, moreover, if accepted by the proposing group, would be rejected by the majority according to the two groups of government and the two groups that are fighting the extreme left electorate. At no time did I doubt that a possible Ciutadans dream that you entered to propose the modifications that truly require the internal control mechanisms of the Mosss would be frontally rejected by Esquerra, Junts, CUP and Podemos. Let's talk about the young man. The first point expresses support for the Mossos d'Esquadra and asks the Government to restore and strengthen the authority of the Police of the Generality. Mr. Swordler, we fully share the need to publicly express as much as possible the support for the Mossos d'Esquadra. And perhaps even more, we share the need to restore and strengthen the authority of the General Police. We, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, from the opposition we are concerned, and very much, for public safety, about the need to guarantee it in defense of the rights of the Catalan city council, especially of the worst and also of all the citizens who are respectful of the democratic order that we have given each other. Public security guarantees the rights of all citizens, not just the rights they seek to exercise and enjoy without delay those who attack the democratic order, from the institutions of the social and democratic state on which we all belong, from the separatist parties and their satellite groups, which, day by day, also abuse the right of assembly and violate the legitimate rights of the good part of Catalan citizenship. The message at this first point presented by Esquerra and Juntes makes it very clear that this is not, nor good enough, the concern of the Government of the Generality. They do not want to recognize a reality that is on the street and that anyone who has eyes and follows the current has seen it. The authority of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is being questioned. An authority that, in a speech in which he claimed respect for the Police of the Generality, Major Trapero reminded us that the police held by delegation of the judicial authority and the governmental authority. Fortunately, the judicial authority continues to exercise its authority fully and is maintained with a public power essential for the maintenance of democracy, which separatism does not support because it prevents the field in which they want to convert our society. But the authority that the Mossos have a delegate, the government authority, is in low hours, very low, because the current government, like its immediate predecessors, is working for the republish of dessert ice cream and they have no time to defend public safety for all and every citizen of Catalonia and not much less to defend and truly respect the Mossos Coss of Esquadra. And your papers, the papers the government has submitted to this young man, make it clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.81.0	And finally, on behalf of the Mixt Group, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.82.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, the truth is, it's about a young man that we could consider as a minimum denominator among those we ask for protection, respect and legitimization of the Mossos pocket. But precisely for this reason, as it is a minimum denominator, we also decided not to submit submissions that could alter a certain support at this point. And this is the first reason we're going to support the young lady. And there's a second that's very helpful to us. And it's that when it's spoken..., and it's said here and it's, indeed, certain: they correspond to the Mossos, to the police, the monopoly of the use of force and guarantee public order in democracy. And here's the big discrepancy. We understand, because it is strictly so in democracy, that limiting this use of the monopoly of force is law. It is neither the opinion of the CUP nor of the People's Party nor of anyone else. It is not the subjective view, as has been said here, of images that do not please us. If someone doesn't like an image, then what needs to be done is justice and explain why he doesn't like it, if he considers that an excess has occurred in the use of this monopoly of force. And it will ultimately be the justice that determines whether this has happened or not. In fact, there are many complaints in this sense, which certainly also end up giving reason to the police. And they're not there either. And as to respect what justice says, that's where the People's Party will always be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.83.0	Thank you very much. Now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, I'll pronounce on the papers and the non papers. And I also understand what the representatives of the People's Party and the representative of Ciutadans have said not to look, conscious of trying to have a majority. This is the hope that we wrote it with. And it's certainly minimal, because we could have gone into some aspects, even a little bit more. Therefore, I also appreciate this fact of not caring, seeking a consensus that has not been possible – it has not been possible. And we have not accepted the papers presented by the groups that support the Government, in particular the Republican Group, the Republican Left Group. We offer some deal that has not finally arrived at port. But a couple of thoughts respect everything we've seen in this debate. Home, he's tired of being told to see if... we'll talk about the police as many times as we think it's appropriate to talk about it. And it gets a little tired of listening to them when we talk about it. More when... put it to Google; I'll do it, experiment it. Posin: « The government offers the CUP... – during..., all diaries without exception, of all political signs – «... offers them to the CUP, among other things, therefore, review the paper of the Mobile Brigade in I don't know what it was. Home, aviam, if this isn't partying, if this isn't using the police, I'd get an expression down there and see it, right? , to hear us. So, man, do we discuss this so many times? They imagine that I came here on behalf of my group and said to them: "It's too much to talk about the consultation. Listen, some of them can get very tired, somewhere in the city, but everyone, and I assure you, deserves a lot of respect; among other things, because there is a large majority in this Parliament and in the city, therefore, that is on this line. Therefore, we speak with clarity: we will speak of it many times as convinced. We obviously keep this motion on the table, and we do want to make a warning, in some way; warning or an important consideration. If I experience what the commission is with, it's this 50-per-cent block, I don't count on us. And we would also have liked to feel in this parliamentary debate a strong condemnation of the vandalization of many of the streets, many of the public and private assets. And that's what we missed. And that's why we face the committee with this spirit, also carrying the voice of these people who because of the inefficiency of the Administration or because of the vandalistic use of many people who here seem to protect and learn, so they are also victims. And these are also citizens of this country. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.85.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will, like the rest, do this half before he suspends the session. [[Marc Parés Franzi asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.86.0	Request separate vote from point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.87.0	Thank you very much. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into Europe's future]] [[302-00051/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the future of Europe ; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. It has the word to expose it the French deputy of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.88.0	Thank you, President. And many thanks for being there, Counselor, we didn't expect. Let's hope your father gets back soon and can get out of the hospital. Anyway, thank you very much for being there. When we speak of Europe in a non-geographic sense, but also very clearly visible, we speak of a democratic border; a democratic border that is marked by two very clear points. The first is a point that says that of the twenty-and-seven states of the Union, there is only one MEP who came out elected after winning the elections, the last European elections, such as President Puigdemont, such as Councilwoman Clara Ponsatí, and also Councillor Toni Comín, cannot climb one of these states. That would be the first point. And then there is a second point that marks this line of what would be democratic Europe, of those areas where, effectively, democracy has hard problems to survive. And this second point was explained by President Puigdemont, precisely when he was opening the new European Parliament office, which is here, to play in Parliament, and he was telling us the specificity of the Spanish State, which is the only State that has agreed its constitution with fascism – the only State that has agreed its Constitution with fascism. That's not opinions, that's facts. Here you have the first copy of the Spanish Constitution, which signed the Borbo, where you see the Franco symbol. I do not know if you will remember that the year 2010 there was a controversy because it was trying to explain the Spanish democracy to your of the Eurocamera, and it brought, precisely, a copy of this copy, and it generated quite a lot..., the Euro MP Ramon Tremosa remembers, it generated the truth is that a lot of surprise. It's unimaginable a German constitution with swastika. So that was happening. And I loved it... I got it back, it cost me a little bit of finding, but I loved the justification that a cave log made to explain what had happened. In order to apologize, they say: "The original copy of the Spanish Constitution, which has the signature of Don Juan Carlos de Borbón's fist and letter, carries the shield with the eagle. Then, this is the authentically constitutional shield. And that's it, and we'd have it. All right. So the reason we are presenting today is precisely to confirm this idea that Catalonia is essentially European – so we want this Parliament to be declared as such – and that the Spanish State is a European exception, an exception to what it does to democratic standards. We have Poland, which makes it very difficult for us. To play of the Union we have Turkey, this esteemed partner of the government of socialists and commons. But Spain is leading the process of demophobia, and it will certainly cost a lot to take this first place. And we know that the European Union is a club of states, and we know that it does not always follow these founding principles of the European Union. But is that what makes us leave Europe? No, on the contrary, this makes us more than ever affirm these European founding principles which are essentially democratic principles. That's why we're claiming the same performance. We will insist from the different chambers where we are because the very thing that is done to Poland is done against the countries that act against these European principles. That is why we want the whole territory to continue to talk about the future of Europe, and that is why we want this Parliament to also gather the government in this task of territorializing this debate about the future of Europe, and we want this Parliament to talk about it again. That is why we support the Self-Determination Caucus, which is still working not only with Esquerra, Bildu, Together for Catalonia and other groups in Parliament, because we think that self-determination also forms part of these rights that must be respected, promoted and known by the European Union. And we're also talking about language, because it seems to us that there's nothing more than a province to store language when it's out, when it's in Europe, when it's in the international arena, when it seems absurd to pretend that there's a plurinational state or that there's a plurinational state that has been unable to allow other languages that don't follow Spanish to be used in European chambers for all these years. And we would like to end by saying that Europe, despite everything, continues to feel our hope. This hope which described Espriu so well, when he wrote that poem which he said: « I have been asked to speak of my Europe, and he said: « Let our hope not be disappointed, let not our trust be mocked. For Europe, Members and Members, you are supported by this young man. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.89.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, the Lord Nacho Martín Blanco on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.90.0	Thank you, President. Becoming a counselor, thank you for being there. And I hope your father is back soon. First of all, to begin with, I want to do this thing. Ladies and gentlemen, well, we have just witnessed an exercise of absolute ignorance by the deputy of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Dalmases, confusing a Francoist symbol, a fascist symbol, with the eagle of Saint John, which comes from the Catholic Kings, which comes from the union of crowns between the Aragonese Crown, which is not CatalanoAragonese, and the Crown of Castile. A historical symbol that sinks its roots into, well, let's say in the night of times, and that, of course, has nothing to do with an unconstitutional or unconstitutional symbol. And that is the symbol that works in the preamble to the Constitution that King John Charles signed in his inauguration. Anyway, you have to know a little about history and not go out here to do demagogy without knowing the symbols of the history of Spain. Moreover, it is very curious that today the separatist parties come here to present us with an initiative and tell us about their good relations with Bildu, with Sinn Féin, with other extremist parties in Europe, which are separatist parties. And, therefore, the contradiction is that, in the European Union, which is a union of human integration, which is a union of solidarity between citizens and between peoples, which is a union of high-mindedness, you certainly have a difficult place with your separatist discourse, with a regressive ethos that are so old-fashioned and so absolutely insolidary. Therefore, that document that you present, which we could define as the document of the separatist international or the populist national international, has very difficult fit within the framework of the European Union, within the framework of the project that you conceived on its day Schuman, Monnet, Adenauer, Gasperi and the rest of the founding parents of the European Union. Certainly, this, what I was telling you about the regressive ethos and the past in fashion, is something that I not only think, but that I was saying, in fact, one of the great contemporary constitutionalists today as Mr. Joseph Weiler is. He said that what interest could be aroused in the Union by a political community such as a Catalonia separated from the rest of Spain, based on a nationalist ethos so regressive and old-fashioned that it cannot with the discipline of loyalty and solidarity that would be expected, or that one would expect, that it would have towards its fellow citizens from the rest of Spain. If you are not able to be in solidarity with the rest of the Spaniards, how will you be in solidarity with the rest of the Europeans? It's an absolute contradiction. Spain robs us, the fiscal expoliation, all its cheap demagogy on the alleged aggravation of Catalonia towards the rest of Spain has no place in a modern Europe, in a Europe of free and equal citizens, which is precisely based on solidarity and human integration. Look, you are talking about a European letter for clarity, in a clear reference to the Canadian law of clarity. I will explain to you what the intellectual father of the Canadian law of clarity, Mr. Stéphane Dion, was saying. Some of us had the opportunity to agree with him on his various visits to Spain and he insisted a lot on an idea to all of us who had the opportunity to listen to him. We said: "Would you consider that the law of clarity would be a good formula for Spain? And he told us: "No, because Canada had to do it because we don't have a great article like yours in the Spanish Constitution, like Article 2. Article that says – and I remind you to keep it in mind – that the Constitution is based on the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards, and recognizes and guarantees solidarity among all of them, among all the autonomous communities. [[Some applause.]] Well, that is the true spirit of human integration, that is the true spirit of solidarity between citizens that informs our project suggestive of common life that Ortega spoke of and it is precisely the one that informs the European project, the European Union project. And you simply represent the antithesis of European integration, the antithesis of solidarity and the antithesis of a project, let us say, with political height capable of overcoming narrow nationalism, which was precisely what the European Union was born for. The European Union was born precisely to overcome narrow-eyed nationalisms, Cerile nationalisms, nationalisms which, ultimately, as Mitterrand said, are war. That is why it is surprising that you have come here with your separatist speech to pretend to present yourself as the adalides of the European Union, the adalides of Europe. It is you, I insist, the antithesis, quite the opposite of what the European Union represents. Therefore, we, from Citizens, will continue to defend a nation of free and equal citizens, which is Spain, integrated within the framework of the European Union, and we will defend solidarity among all European peoples. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.91.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you're going to advise that you're all right, okay? All right, we're dealing with this young man, from the entrance, with interest. A motion that talks about the fundamental values of the European Union. With interest. You know the compromise of my parliamentary group, of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, of the PSC, from the minute u, on European construction and on the creation of this European area of rights and freedom. And the compromise, since the minute u, that our country is integrated into this European Union. We do it with interest and we do it with a surprise point too. The other day, discussing the assumptions, we complained that the Government of Catalonia did not participate in this Conference on the Future of the European Union. We don't share it – we don't share it. Or else, we think that the Government of Catalonia must participate in everything that the young man says. And they're surprised a little bit that the councilwoman says she's not participating because that's coffee for everyone, and that the Junts Group is presenting a motion saying that we need to be, and that we need to defend and that we need to say things. Suppress a little. And it is also surprising that the councilwoman said: "Well, we will do many things," she explained, "in the march of this commission, and we will already transfer them to the Government of Spain. Listen, I think I'm fine, but I think you should do it directly, directly in this committee. We will vote in favour of some points in the motion; others, no. We also voted if the Ciutadans Group's papers had been accepted. We thought there were some issues that might have been accepted. And if I may have a parentheses, the representative of the Ciutadans Group when he recited Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution has forgotten a phrase, I don't know whether in a volgu or not, because this Article 2 of the Spanish Constitution also recognizes and guarantees the right to autonomy of all the nationalities and regions that integrate it. I don't know why he didn't say that, because that's also uplifting. When one speaks of an article, as if to say it honestly. Look, we think we need to be, because we think that the Government of Catalonia has had to be, for example, the act that was done in the Aran Valley about supporting the Olympic Games. We think that the Government of Catalonia must also be at the meeting of the Aragó Economic Forum, Catalonia and Balears, and it was not there. We think that the Government of Catalonia should also be in the act of supporting the Mediterranean Corridor, and it was not there. We think that the Government of Catalonia must also be at meetings that are fan about financing. We think that the government of Catalonia cannot make the law of not being there, for example, when the president of Seat-Volkswagen is here. The Government of Catalonia must be there, and it must also be in this committee on the future of Europe. And you need to speak Catalan in this committee. Because, Mr. Dalmases, it's the environment we have to do. Now is the time to do it – now. To be in this commission in the first person, to speak Catalan and to defend what you consider opportune. What does this commission say? In the creation of the commission what is it talking about? It's about the ecological transition, it's about the competitiveness of European industry, it's about correcting inequalities, it's about no one left behind at these times. You say, "Well, you could also talk about other things. Perfect, but what we need to talk about is this. I ended up with a question. We, too... the representative, when he presented the motion, commented on a question about the Spanish Constitution. Miri, I have to make a reference to Jordi Solé Tura, and even I could also make it to Mr. Roca. His trajectory has nothing to see, as the Constitution says, with everything you have said – nothing to see. And they are Catalan figures who participated in the creation of this card of freedoms that has been referenced in other countries of the European Union at the time of creating these cards of rights and freedoms. Gent, I insist, Catalan, like Mr. Jordi Sole Tura, with a trajectory that is impeccable in the struggle of rights and freedoms. Therefore, Madam President, if I may, announce a separate vote on points 1, 2 and 3, which could be voted jointly. And, I insist, the rest of the young lady would be voted against. Many thanks, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, you will advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.93.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.94.0	Thank you very much, President. And good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen. The motion before us today calls for the recognition of the grouping of Self-Determination Caucus MEPs. Look, for those who do not know it, it is an association of separatist Euro MPs from various states of Europe, whose sole purpose is to achieve a European law of recognition of the right to self-determination of the regions and to skip, of course, the legal order of the nations. The Self-Determination Caucus is composed of the fugitive coupsmen Carles Puigdemont, Toni Comín and Clara Ponsatí, but it also composes, for example, Izaskun Bilbao, of the Basque party collects nuts, the French separatist François Alfonsi and those of Sinn Féin, the heirs of the Irish terrorist band IRA, with more than one thousand_eight hundred murders behind them. But, in addition, in case it were little, you share ranks with Fernando Barrena, member of the terrorist band ETA. I see you're acquitting. You're proud, aren't you? , to share ranks with age-olds and terrorists from all over Europe, because these are precisely their partners, here within Spain, but also outside the borders: murderers, kidnappers and terrorists with whom you share a single road map. Before we go on, let's recap for a moment and put ourselves in context, shall we? What is the Conference on the Future of Europe, which they talk about so much? Look, the Conference on the Future of Europe is a project driven by the European Commission, an organ that has certainly not chosen anyone, and that seeks to modify the treaties in the European Union through the back door, jumping to the member states, to their parliaments, to impose their federalist and globalist theses. What is being perpetrated here is a new treaty that expands the powers of community institutions and their ability to control national sovereignty, weakening our democratic and legal states and gradually dissolving our national identity. The Conference on the Future of Europe is a farce, because in addition to preventing the participation of groups such as VOX, they only deal with the issues that interest the elites progress, don't they? They talk about climate religion, gender ideology, how to put even more money to finance illegal immigration. And, on the other hand, they refuse to talk about other issues, such as, for example, precisely the migratory invasion that Europe is suffering, the demographic crisis, the loss of our energy sovereignty, the relocation of our industry or the unfair competition that our primary sector is facing in the face of the illegal entry of non-Community products. [[Some applause.]] The European Union of the globalist elites who defend you, both separatists, socialists and liberals, lives more and more away from the Europeans, lives on the back of the Europeans, in the same way that you, here in Catalonia, live more worried about moving forward in your rupturist agenda, about moving forward in the implementation of the doctrine of the 2030 agenda, than the real needs of the Catalans. We also especially draw attention to his mention of Poland, don't we? Above all, the harshness with which they want Poland, a Member State of the European Union, to be punished for defending precisely its democratic institutions, sovereignty and borders in an exemplary way. Separatist gentlemen, it is a shame to see how you treat our Polish neighbours who, for example, the communist narco-dictatorship of Cuba, which you not only refuse to condemn, but also openly defend, in the same way that Josep Borrell did for weeks from the European institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member States do not work for Brussels, it is Brussels that must be at the service of the Member States. And if you really want to recover the founding theses of the European Union, remember that the Union is not a superpower, but a treaty of twenty-seven sovereign states that cooperate freely. And in the face of the totalitarian impositions of the Brussels elites, we will defend the nations and Poland's exemplary action in defense of its borders, for that is precisely where we are playing the future of Europe. It is precisely in the strength of our borders that the continuity of Western Christian civilization is guaranteed, the continuity of our identity, our traditions and our culture. Let us defend Europe, but let us do the real thing. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.95.0	On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr Carles Riera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.96.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, before this motion, before this proposal by Junts for Catalonia, we want to point out, first, two problems, before positioning ourselves on the concrete text of the motion. Indeed, from our point of view, before this young man, we have two problems. In the first place, an idealized, idealizing report from the European Union, which corresponds absolutely to the reality of our point of view; with the peril, which is not new, of generating false expectations to the population in relation to the current European Union, with the consequence of a major skepticism, in the light of the facts, skepticism that the extreme right knows perfectly how to collect it and how to make it, instead of generating a critical sense, a critical spirit, before the current project of the European Union, which is the one that can mobilize energies and social forces and citizens so as to be able to build an alternative project. Let us briefly go over just a few aspects which we seem to have to put on the table of what is the history of European Union policy. Foreign policy: an inventory of failures. Honestly, I've looked at it and I'm not able to find any success in foreign policy. Iraq, Libya, Syria, Palestine, the Balkans... Result: Aggravation of conflicts, devastation and environmental crises and humanities. Honestly, I haven't found a case where we can talk about success. Migration, refugee and asylum policy. The Mediterranean border and the external borders of the European Union are an example of the political, moral and ethical weakness of the European Union in relation to refugee and asylum policies, which were to be one of its founding principles, with the consequence of a flagrant and continuing violation of human rights. Tolerance before fascism. The fascism grows from Europe with the tolerance of the European Union and of the Member States, as if we do not have memory of Europe of whose consequences are to have the least tolerance with the fascism and to hold it to democratic normality. Neoliberal policies. Do we remember the austere proposal for the 2008 crisis? And in the case of Greece, how did a reference win and the European Union did not respect it? Now, before the crisis of covid-19, we certainly have a shift of leadership, expansionary policies, but short-term, conjunctural, with a priority of refining large corporations, that together with the national states form this club of interests that goes to the European Union, but to change – to change –, conditioned on structural and long-term shortcuts; that is to say, you help short-term shift of shortcuts and long-term austerid transformations. And we're not fooling ourselves: not recognizing the right to self-determination, facing the Spanish State on October 1 and 3, 17. The Europe of states and corporations against the Europe of peoples. And not to speak of the prevailing and hegemonic development model of the European Union, which fosters climate change – we have seen it at the Glasgow summit – with an unorthodox growth of inequalities, not only in Europe but on a global scale. Therefore, the second problem we want to highlight precisely is also the danger of raising false expectations around the project of the European Union which until now do not correspond to reality. Let us not raise false expectations, neither, for which the role of the European Union does before our demands from the right to self-determination. Let us not raise false expectations for what it does to the political role of the European Union for what it does to our independence project. The European Union will not resolve our political conflict in the current terms. We can place, and even force, the European Union from our democratic revolution for self-determination and social and democratic rights, creating a scene of political conflict that makes the referendum and amnesty inevitable as the only democratic resolution of the conflict. It is from projects and processes of national and social liberation of European peoples, from the construction, from the construction – forgiveness – of local alternatives that need continental references of transformation in favor of a new system, of a new model of development of ecological, feminist, socialist, internationalist and democratic bases, that we can build new alliances and cooperation also at European and Euro-Mediterranean level. It's from this vision, from this march, that we've analyzed and valued your motion. We shall therefore abstain from the first two points and vote in favour of the remainder. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.97.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.98.0	Thank you very much, President. We consider the young lady... that she's an interesting young woman, that she would give to talk to us a lot. What do you say, huh? That we've had a little bit, because after the inquiry, so, all the slowing down we've seen, and what we've seen now in the defense of the young man... In the end, the points of the agreement are quite reasonable and sufficiently consumable, I believe that for most of this Parliament. Therefore, from this point of view, a recognizance of the fact that with a motion that actually raises an issue..., that we believe is a crucial issue for Catalonia, for the Spanish State and for all of Europe, that it is like the construction of this different Europe, of a Europe that truly responds to the needs and rights of the majority of the population and not to the wishes, often imposed by the states. It is also true that I believe that at some point we need to reflect not only what Europe can do for us, for Catalonia, but also what Catalonia can do for Europe. And surely we can do a lot more than we do. And we believe that the young man has been well, in a way, that you gather what is all that Catalonia can bring to the construction of this other different Europe. And, indeed, we are at an important moment, at a time of construction and debate, that we should expect this conference to go to something more than a debate and a bla-bla-bla, as Greta Thunberg said. That we don't just stay in a bla-bla-bla, but that actually turns out to be a conception of a Europe closer to the people, to the needs of the people, more defender of the human rights and social rights of the people. And, indeed, we need to talk about what the role of Catalonia is in this conference and in the construction of this Europe. That is why it is also certain that we are not surprised that the Generalita has decided not to participate in any of the spaces of this conference. We understand that here what is proposed is more likely to strengthen these spaces, to make more space and to give more sight to the city of Catalonia in order to bring out who these contributions are that Catalonia can make to the European Union. A European Union that we consider, yes or yes, that cannot continue in the line that goes. I cannot go on feeling that the European Union is bordering, it cannot be the European Union that its only response to the migration crisis is basically bordering. It cannot be a European Union that does not condition its international agreements with states outside the European Union to the fulfilment of human rights. We believe that the European Union must play a much more leading and much more purposeful role in building a world more just, a world more global. It must be stronger in the measures of emergence against climate change. He has to take a stand on aspects that are crucial – and we have said this – and the House is talking about states that violate human rights and I think that at some point we should also assume that most states, not to mention all, violate human rights. I think we see cases that are very striking. As you speak of Hungary, you can also speak of Poland. But it is that in the end, when a state does not guarantee the right to salvation, or does not guarantee the right to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, or does not guarantee the right to education, or does not guarantee the right to housing, so it is also violating human rights. And we need to be able to put this on the table. And who says a state, who says autonomous governments, who says together... That is to say, we need to broaden the look of what we are talking about when we talk about human rights, also in these social rights, and to talk about the fact that, indeed, the states have a lot to do, they have a lot of way to go, and that is why there are also international organizations that, once in a while, like Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch, put us on the table which are these violations. What was done in Catalonia and the rest of the State with the management of the living quarters was a violation of the human rights of people living in the living quarters and of their relatives. And that's why it's necessary, for example, a commission of inquiry, because we have to face those things that we haven't done well and those things that we can improve. We will give support to all points that defend the proposal, the motion, because we believe that they are points that are interesting, that we certainly did not ask for others, but in the end we respect the initiative of the group that proposed it. In defending català in its use the European institutions will always find us there; that is to say, it is something that we defend from our spaces to the European Union. And what the work group of Members of non-state nations does, we insist: we must be able to work. We do not participate, in this group, there are no Members of our space, but we believe that defending the right of nations to have the right to decide on their future as it is must be something that can be talked about, it must be able to work. And I don't understand why people do it because it's simply spoken, that it's work and that it's progressing. It is also true that we would certainly also have differences in who the answers should be, if it serves the same reception for everyone, perhaps not for all conflicts it serves the same reception of the clarity pact. Just the answers that must be given must always be very appalled at the situation of each people. But it is also important to think that, as we ask for these rights for nations without state, so we believe that the European Union must defend the rights of nations without state outside the European Union, as is the case of the Kurdish people or as is the case of the Palestinian people, where, for example, we believe that the European Union could be much more forceful in denouncing violations of rights on the part of Israel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.100.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases has been relieved to write down the barbarities that he has dedicated to Spain in his intervention today, one of the world's full democracies, according to all international parameters. And it's true that in the youth these barbarity that has come back today to express verbally has not posed them, but this does not mean that the youth ceased to be absolutely infumable. For us, for two essential motius. First, because they intend to replace them, through the acts they have consumed – I want them very successful in Europe, but I am very afraid that they will not, as always, do – a Member State of the Right, such as Spain, for an autonomous community, very much over the powers assigned to it by the Committee of the Regions, which is Catalonia, and its role in Europe. And then the second part of the motion is basically dedicated to defending and claiming a vision of Europe, which is no longer a question that is not only very minority, or practically residual in the European Parliament – also we here in this chamber are minority, that is not the problem; the problem is that it is totally contrary to the founding hope of Europe, it is contrary to the visions of Europe's peers, certainly, all of us at the centre, I don't know if I know, and with a deep anti-nationalist vision, that it is the fundamental idea of overcoming the worst vices of Europe's history – but rather, rather than translating this vision into absolute minority and opposition to the hope of the European Union, it is actually political, politically-based, politically-based. And that's it, and that's incontrovertible. Therefore, despite the fact that the defamatory references against the democratic quality of Spain have been eliminated, the rest of the movement continues to feel infumable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.101.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.102.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Together presents this motion for a motion on the future of the European Union, and the progress that we, our partners and our partners, will give us full support to this motion. And, in fact, we thank them very much for putting this issue on the table, because the future of the European Union is a debate that should be brought to this Parliament and to society at large. We have a precedent; a precedent of which was that European conviction between the years 2001 and 2003: on the part of Catalonia, three hundred representatives made proposals and brought proposals to the European Commission to draw a much more respectful model with the internal diversity of the European Union, but they were completely disappointed. And the conviction ended with a draft constitution for the European Union that was much more daughter of the requests of the states than of the participation of the own citizenry and that was rejected by the electorate. And this is an exhibition of this problematic relationship that has always had European construction with democratic legitimacy. And now, again, we are in a process that generates expectations, but that can also end with a lot of frustration, if we find ourselves already wanting to face the challenges of medium and long term European construction, but the private states, through the council, have been very watery when they see that the conclusions cannot be binding or engines of institutional treaty reforms. In Catalonia, Europeanism has been an inextricable feature of Catalanism; we have always apostatized for a Europe that was the anchor of pau, democracy and freedom. Because, after living forty years with Francoism, we want a Europe that assures us that fascism will never again threaten peace and coexistence in Catalonia and in the State and in Europe, and because we want to wipe out the borders of the states and promote the equality of all the citizens of Europe and this territorial equity. But Europe is far from fulfilling these ideals, and that is why we have the full conviction that we should continue to fight it, because we will not build a democratic Europe of rights and freedoms, if we have, today, an entire generation that associates the European project with the limitation of civic sovereignty to promote capital, to policies of economic austerity, and that has conditioned the state of welfare to the benefits of banking and financing entities or to the idea of a strong Europe that closes its borders and allows victims of wars – and crises that are often caused by Western interests – dying to the woods, now, of Belarus and Poland, to the costs of the Mediterranean or also to the tanks of Ceuta and Melilla. Right now, too, we have a green transition that is subject to the usual lobbying and for the benefit of the usual. And we have also seen that Poland and Hungary are subordinated to authoritarian and anti-democratic legislation over the space of European rights. We have also seen a German court, at last, situating German legality over European law. Or here, too, in the Spanish State, we have seen how one of the major attempts against the sovereignty of the European Parliament prevents Oriol Junqueras from exercising as an elected MEP. And fortunately, we have seen that Carles Puigdemont, Clara Ponsatí and Toni Comín can be, simply because they are outside the Spanish State. And we see how rights are also being violated, like MEPs, in the Spanish state, when they can be exercised by other countries. And it is an evidence that we denounce, together with many other MEPs from different countries and political groups, because we are clear that they want to face up to the fexism that has taken place. Today, the debate on the future of Europe is taking place in this Parliament, it is taking place and it will take place in this Conference on the Future of Europe, in which we must participate, and it is also taking place in the courts and European capitals. But above all – above all – this debate is about playing in schools, universities, businesses, on the streets of each of our towns and cities, because, if European citizenship loses confidence in the institutions and in the defence of the principles and values that the European Union has made, it will lose the idea of Europe and will support populism and fascism, as, unfortunately, we have had to listen here today. This Europeanist and Catalanist vocation we have not lost, we will not lose it, we will not give it away, and we will continue to fight and keep it alive and alive. From the Republican Left we are clear that the future of the European Union is going to take up the path that marks the values and founding principles of the European project. This implies setting limits, from our point of view, to the preponderance of states and certain economic interests in the making of decisions, and, in change, passes, of course, to accentuate the dynamics that contribute to removing borders and building equality and equity. We who defend the independence project are clear that we want the Catalan Republic as a member of this European Union, but a member who contributes to a Europe that is a new guarantor of the rights and freedoms of the world, to the extent that it is also here by the conjunction of European citizenship, fighting for the equality of everyone without matter where it was born and lived. And this is our Republican fight, what we'll always do and fight. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.103.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word of Mr Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.104.0	Thank you, President. I've got 11 seconds... I found it excessive. Right now. Counselor, thank you. Members, Members, are not the least people who have been here today: we have had a representation of what is the European pulse to contemporary Europe; between that Europe which is simply a Europe of the states, a Europe which is a Europe of the states, a Europe which is a rightless one, and a Europe which is a multi-national one, which is a multi-lingual one and which is recognised in the very motto of the European Union, which is that of diversity. And, therefore, it would be so absurd that we do not feel terribly sorry when there are any signs of the European Union, that we do not have this question of the European frailty which means the fourteen children who have died at the border of Poland. We... today, here in the Parliament of Catalonia will win this Europe of rights and freedoms. Very briefly. In Ciutadans: we won't do a branding class on the eagle. Mongolia is full of skis, everyone knows what skis means. We all know what the eagle means, and we know for that, at last, that to shame they took it from the flag. To the friends of the PSC, to David : deputy, very seriously, defend the fight against Francoism of the PSC, of the PSOE..., at the moment we have been able to put in doubt. Precisely, that's why the paradox that is finally turned into a force that has been supporting the 78th rule; something must be seen that in Suresnes, 84, defended the right to self-determination of all peoples and that this was going to lose. In the city, we left it... they told us, they told us about cheap demagoguery. Our speech must be at all, but the relevance to Spain is always less cheap. [[Greetings.]] At the CUP: in a moment... [[The applause continues.]] At no time have we idealized the project of the European Union. It is more, we, with which we do not want to be Eurosceptics, we are demanding Euros. We don't need him to come and stop... [[Greetings.]] We don't need him to come and save us, because Europe is us. And that is what we demand: the Europe we need. To the commons: we agree. We would only like this national sensitivity to have the tingossin at times at a great distance in more thorough speeches; but I thank you very much for the speech and the whole. The PP seems to be infumable. Perfect. And to Esquerra: Many thanks, we are completely in agreement; it should not be news, but on the days it is. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.105.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will be at noon before the session is suspended. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the evolution of the economy]] [[302-00052/13]] And let's get to the top of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the evolution of the economy; presented for the Joint Group. To expose her, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.106.0	Thank you very much, President. You see, the economic crisis in Catalonia began before the pandemic and, unfortunately, will continue after the pandemic, as we continue with the process, as we continue with a lack of management and as the influence of the UPC continues; we see, there is no way. Independence has always seen the Government of the Generality as a foundation for financing its cause, and more than that. We have public debt expectations that say that Catalonia will be good through 2040. And this has only one reading: still more dependence on the State. What a master's play, his: more dependency on the State, this State than you want to leave. They have eroded Catalonia's reputation, and this has economic consequences, and it must urgently renew economic policy. And that goes, yes or yes, for a decrease in the tax burden. It's not possible nor can we recover from the feeling of the autonomous community with the most tax burden of the whole State, the feeling of the autonomous community more expensive than the whole State. And in that sense, this young man went. And here we offer you a follow-up of measures that go through reductions and bonuses to the IRPF's autonomic tram, to the lower back and to the middle; subsidies to expenses for the school bressol, textbooks, school material, children's school, private mutuals, by birth of children, adoptions, accolliment... A whole follow-up of bonuses. Expand the bonus that applies to habitats up to thirty-five years and also for nomadic families. Subsidies of a new tax on inheritances and donations between parents and children; pushing this tax into the midst of the pandemic, when the more dead there were, it was very immoral – very immoral. We need to reduce this import, we need to eliminate the taxes created for the generality right now. We have fifteen taxes – fifteen. It's not possible, we don't feel competitive with anyone, we don't sound competitive with anyone; we're too cars. We have to make a business plan, not just for the return of businesses – those who say they have not left, but they are not there – but also to strengthen what we have. We need to expand the market. External action does not have to be to sell the process; external action has to be to sell Catalan business products, to sell Catalan businesses. So, we leave them... I won't detail them all, they're just a few more. I think it's worth reconsidering, analyzing, reflecting on them, because I think they are measures that can help to improve Catalonia's competitiveness, to improve Catalonia's economy, and, above all, they can assume an air to breathe a little oxygen some citizens who are really affected by the economic crisis and who are actually today offended by the fiscal pressure they have not only from the Government of the State, but also for their own Government of the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.107.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Lord Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. The PP presents us again a motion on the decadence of Catalonia. We have submitted six papers, two of which have been accepted, but we will reject all other points. Well, I have devoted myself to..., I have limited myself to looking at economic data from the last few weeks and, for example..., I do not see here Deputy Alejandro Fernández, who is from Tarragona, but I would like to talk, for example, about how the port of Tarragona is evolving economically in the last few weeks. For example, Ms. Parera, does she know that the port of Tarragona is the most growing of all the Spanish State? Do you also know that on September 2021 the port of Tarragona exceeded in volume the port of Bilbao and became the fifth port of the entire State? The port of Tarragona is a very diverse port: the petrochemical, automotive, container, live animal, « bulk, also creuers... Therefore, it represents very well the economy of its hinterland in the area of Tarragona. What a curious decadence! And that, for example, we have public communications from multinationals, like Daimler-Benz did in 2015, saying that they wanted to go to Tarragona, but that the Mediterranean Corridor was not done in Croatia. Also the port of Barcelona, for example, the year 2019 beat its historical record of contents, the traffic of added values. It turns out that the third quarter of 2021 exceeds the third quarter of 2019 and has also broken the content record in the last quarter. Catalonia's exports are moving towards a new historical record: 2019 has broken the historical record of exports. In the first six months of the year, with almost 40,000_million exports, we can exceed 2019 exports, even though in the first quarter we had closed it for the pandemic. Decay of Catalonia? Miri, the Independent Fiscal Accountability Authority has just said..., has just published that Catalonia's GDP in the third quarter grew by 3.4 i in Madrid only grew by 1.6; 3.4/1.6. The tourist tax in Catalonia has been set up a few days ago at pre-pandemic levels and is more than one point below the tourist tax in Madrid and almost four points below the Spanish tax. And so I could go on with... For example, the Savills Aguirre Newman agency says that, for what it does to international investor dynamism, Barcelona has concentrated the year 2021 seventy-two percent of all the real estate investment of the entire State – the seventy-two percent – when the historical series, the historical medium, is of the twenty-i-set_percent. Do you know you're decaying, Mrs. Parera? The reversal of the State in Catalonia, the state financing in Catalonia and also the deputies of the PP in this Parliament. And that Catalonia has hardly underfunded decades, with all the power of the built state, bent on making a great Madrid at the cost of buidar Castella. But Catalonia in the Spanish State forty years ago I kept the same percentage in contribution to GDP: a dinosaur_per_cent. It's not like I'm an economist, it's not like it's hard to imagine the consequences that Catalonia would have expected to have no longer independence, it's just an economic concert rule that you blocked the year 2010 when this Parliament made a new statute. "And with you began everything, which he would say. And do you know that these successes in Catalonia have double merit? Because perhaps the country that is in decline is Spain: one of the countries with the most expensive energy, with the most centralist infrastructures, with a less agile, independent and effective judicial system, with the highest rate of growth, with the most predatory taxation – that they say to the local authorities and now that they want to push social security to businesses – with the lowest institutional quality, and in the later reform of the Constitutional Court they voted for the deputies of Podemos covering their noses. We could talk about Spain's decline: the European Commission's latest report, the Spanish Bank's own recognition, the international press. Inflation in Spain is growing more than in other European countries, a 5.4; in Portugal, only a 1.8. The OECD in its last report says that the fall of real income, of real income, is the highest in Spain in all of Europe. It's all an ingressor project! And that in the last two years Spain has tripled public debt – nor did Philip II go so fast in debt to the State – from thirty-five percent to one hundred twenty-two percent; from 350 billion euros to 1,432 billion euros. By the way, today in La Vanguardia comes out: "Historical memory of the Spanish debt. I, for sure, this Spanish debt in a eighty_per_cent is attributable to the State, lords of VOX; no to the autonomy, to the central government. So, therefore, it is the Spanish State that has separated itself a long time ago from the Catalans and, therefore, as a result, we are passing away. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.109.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, he now has the word, to defend the papers presented, Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.110.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. In any case, I would begin by trying to clarify one of the statements made by the People's Party in its presentation. That's to say that reality, therefore, spreads a good headline. You were talking about the government of the generality's scumbag, which is obviously the consequence of the debt burden that the government of the generality is at this point in time. Look, this is page 25 of the file that the Economics Department delivered to all economics agents at the last committee. Here we have the debt of the Government of the Generality, first independentist government; Socialist Party - Initiative - Republican Left ; assumptions approved for Convergence and Union and the People's Party, and from here begins the first independentist government in this country. As you can see, from the Republican Left Group, we share little of what is planted in this young man. We do not share in any other of the fiscal policy that is proposed and much less share the diagnosis and mantra that they repeat and try to repeat not only the People's Party, but also VOX and Ciutadans, that the Catalan economy is now in a decadent situation. But not to share this, surely we can also share some of the things that Ramon Tremosa also commented: the economic situation of the Spanish State has difficult structural competitiveness problems with respect to the rest of Europe. In fact, last week the European Commission announced that Spain will be the only economy of the European Union, of the twenty-i-seven countries of the European Union, that it will not recover its gross domestic product prepandemic since 2022 – the only one. L'atur a Espanya in these moments is in a 14,6_per_cent, more than double the half of the European Union, which is found in a 6,7. It is the European economy, of the European Union of Twenty-Seven, which has a higher profile, in front of Bulgaria, in front of Greece, in front of Romania, in front of Lithuania. And surely we also share the concerns that social security in Spain at these times has difficult sustainability difficulties. In fact, the People's Party government has melted the reserve funds, as you know. And Spain knows perfectly well that it is the third country of the European Union with a higher risk of child poverty, in a 31,3_per_cent, only after Romania and Bulgaria, according to the latest report by Save the Children. And surely we could also share that forty years ago that have drunk Spain. In 1980, Galícia, a popular feu par excellence, had at that time..., represented 6.27_percent of the economy of the Spanish State – 6.27. At this point, forty years later, 5:18. Galicia has lost the twenty per cent of its fish in the Spanish economy. The same thing happened to Euskadi. Forty years ago it represented 7.45_per_cent. You've got the sis, not upstairs. It also loses the twenty per cent of it over the relationship in the Spanish State. Castella i Lleó, since the year 87 that governs the Popular Party. Forty years ago it was 6.37, today it's 4.81. He's lost his 20-and-a-half percent of his foot. And the same has passed to Asturias, which has lost a thirty, Cantabria a twenty, Aragó a set and a half, Pays Valencia a 5.7. All this decline is not as a consequence of the Catalan process, nor much less; it is as a consequence of the fact that today the Spanish economy is a great sink, which is all going to Madrid. Forty years ago it represented fourteen per cent, and at these times it represents the dinosaur. It's grown thirty-sis_per_cent to every man's ribs, minus Catalunya. 40.5_percent of the state's 1,000 largest companies are in Madrid. All the most important institutions are in Madrid. At the level of the State, the eighty_per_cent of the workers of the ministries are in Madrid, the sixty-four_per_per_cent of the bids of the entire state public sector are in Madrid. There is no problem with the decay of Catalonia. There's a serious concentration problem. There is a problem in his model of state designed to make the great Madrid and rebuild the great economic desert around him. And she asks us in this motion to abandon the speeches that generate uncertainty and legal uncertainty. We agree. Let's stop doing it, let's stop doing it, and let's stop saying that Catalonia is decaying, because that's what they're trying to do. No one wants to invest, no one wants to invest in a country that is decaying. And Catalonia, despite everything, we resist. Forty years ago we represented the dinosaur per cent of the gross domestic product of the Spanish State; two years ago we represented the dinosaur per cent, and today we represent the dinosaur per cent. Despite the eighth-per-cent fiscal deficit, despite its royal decrees, Catalonia resists today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.111.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... deu-n'hi-do, to go by! In fact, if we were to do so, we'd have to get there by now. The fixation you have with Spain! It speaks of a motion on the economic situation in Catalonia, and the number of interventions by the Junts and Esquerra Republicana groups has focused on the situation of the Spanish economy. God-in-law, the fixation you have, that you should have already arrived, I insist, I don't know exactly where. In any case, the motion presented for the People's Parliamentary Group places the focus on the economic situation in Catalonia and its evolution. We agree, in our case, in good measure with the diagnosis made by the young woman. The past few years haven't been a good year. The last decade has been a decade lost in many areas: in politics, in social and also in economics. The lack of political stability has generated insecurity and uncertainty in our economy, causing, for example, the transfer of thousands of entrepreneurs, their social partners and their prosecutors; also, as a result, there was the loss of Catalonia's economic leadership in Spain since 2018. There has been a setback in the industrial sector. There has been a loss of two per cent of the population employed in this sector in the past few years, from 19.3 to 17.5. There's also a drop in productivity. The total productivity of the factors was '1,3 in 2010 and it is zero in 2019, lowering 2020 by the pandemic motius. Notwithstanding this, beyond data and statistics, which are always flexible and interpretable, opinions or the state of anime are also important, which are essential in the economy. And I will remember Pimec's survey of October 2017, in which he pointed out that, to more than the companies that had moved his own, a 2.2_per_cent of the companies had moved, while a 15.7_per_cent would not know if they would do so. The study also launched data on the impact of the financial uncertainty: an eleven_per_cent of the companies opened accounts outside, a god stopped investments and a new one claimed that it would do so in the near future. In the interventions that preceded me and in the intervention that goes on behalf of the Government, the councillor, to the previous inquiry in this motion, we can deduce that it is normal. I understand his position: one of his functions – in fact, obligations – is to sell Catalonia positively. It would be frankly disturbing to see the economic advisor here saying that everything is a disaster. So, between this image, which would result for the low-lying and probably damaging for the own economy, and the one that you offer us, which a little less than you say we live in the country of xauxa, surely we would find a position much more suited to reality. And I make this fundamental consideration because we believe that it falls into cophosm and believe that when we look at each other in the eye we are the most perfect of the world, it inexorably leads us to inaction and to maintain determined policies that are not positive neither for the economy of Catalonia nor for Catalonia in general. We agree in good measure with the diagnosis of the young man, but not with the prescription. We believe that tax cuts are not the solution. If the problem arises from the political instability that has arisen at the length of these years, the solution must come for the same, not from fiscal cuts, giving, in the first instance, political and economic stability in Catalonia, taking advantage of opportunities and taking refuge in everything. It's not about not doing things right, it's about doing things right, and I mean, obviously, projects like Winter Games, Tarragona's Hard Rock, the airport, etc. Mirin, in this Parliament, some have a great preference for creating blocs, for always looking for criticisms in politics, and, therefore, also in society. But divisions can't do many. Ferals like it between independentists and non-independentists. We prefer between right and left, or even better, there is one of the policies or policies that generate problems and solutions. This, we understand, is the best way for us to overcome this stage of this lost decade: to open a new stage; not to sacrifice more time or scope and projects in the economy or in the development projects of the country or in the territories for block policy. Allow me, to finish, just a given. In economic debates we are used to referring to data such as GDP, exports, productivity – I have done it myself – but, mirin, there is a fact that it is also an economy. Actually, that's what we should be most worried about. A 26.3_percent of the population of Catalonia is in a situation or at risk of social exclusion. This is the data that puts us in front of the most real miracle and the fact that no, things are not good, not everything is fantastic and wonderful and can develop the country economically in order to be able to redistribute rich. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.113.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.114.0	Thank you, President. From VOX we share the concern expressed in the motion that the economy of Catalonia is in a very decadent situation. More than 426,000 unemployed, a public debt of more than 80,000_million_euros and more than six thousand companies fled since 2017. But not only because of separatism, but also because of the industrial policies of successive governments and because of the regulatory and fiscal inequality of the seventeen Spanish regions, which generates clear inequality, annihilates market unity and generates unfair competition. Successive governments have dismantled our industry to make Spain, mainly, a country of services, tourism and construction. Catalonia had been a pioneer region in industrial matters, in automotive, photography, elevators, household, but they have mainly ended up with these industries because of the policies that limit our factories but facilitate the entry of Asian products, which come into clear unfair competition, which do not respect what we want to be respected, which is the environment and our social rights. [[Some applause.]] In Catalonia, in Spain we have sufficient training and training to be able to manufacture everything and to generate various jobs of diverse training; but if we let our entrepreneurs, our workers compete in equality and not in conditions of manifest inequality with companies, for example Asians. Faced with its 2030 agenda that annihilates our jobs, our Spanish agenda that protects our workers. We have been accumulating various crises: industrial, financial, the result of the instability of separatism and the last, which is the poor management of the pandemic. You, in this motion, focus only on the cause of separatism and a single solution, which is the timid tax rebate. And from VOX we understand that in order to reverse the economic and employment crisis, economic and administrative and fiscal policies must be turned around. Economics, defending domestic products against foreign products to protect our employment. Administrative and fiscal measures, simplifying public intervention and equalizing regulations throughout the national territory. And, on the motion, they propose a number of tax rebates that we support many of them, although some of us consider them timid and others cannot support them. First, as regards the reduction of the IRPF's autonomous tranche and its bonuses. Obviously, we support him. But let's deny the biggest: there wouldn't have to be seventeen autonomous sections. Because that inequality between Spaniards is not fair; that in some regions – which is not Catalonia – you get rid of the usual housing or you get rid of your children's school materials. Secondly, as regards the bonus of inheritance and donation tax. We support him. While we want the abolition of this tax throughout Spain. Because we remember that after the PP-Convergence pact, it depends where you die, your heirs pay a lot, pay little or pay nothing. Third, in relation to CO2 tax and environmental taxes. We share its repeal and, in general, all those who punish our industries unjustly in the face of foreign industries, as we have commented, who then come to our home, to our shelves to compete with our products in a totally unfair way. Fourthly, as far as ITP is concerned, the tax which imposes, for example, the purchase of a house here in Catalonia a ten_per_cent. We value that they take into account their reduction and we value that they take into account some collectives such as large families, which must be protected and strengthened. Fifthly, we also support a package of tax incentives for businesses, although we do not understand that it is only for those who are concentrated and those who have passed the pandemic crisis, because there are other crises that we have been dragging. We cannot support the intensification of the field offices, which have become ambassadors of separatism. We could support point j, but it goes and you – I don't know if the PP, Barcelona for Canvi, or the signings of the manifesto or the three together – agree an amendment with Junts in favour of the National Industry Pact. And, look, not the national industrial pact. First, because we believe in market unity, and because the only country and nation of Catalans is called Spain. [[Some applause.]] We also support a shock plan to support the business fabric, especially by simplifying its regulation. According to the boost of vocational training. And finally, in connection with the creation of the new Brexit office. Go back. No, we do not want another chiringuito, because this function has to be performed by the Ministry of Industry or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.115.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word now Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.116.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning. Before we begin, I would like to say to the Socialist Party that they are so encapsulated that we are carrying a lost decade..., I would say to them: yes, we are carrying a lost decade; two years ago you promoted a constitutional reform approved by Article 135. It has been two years since the payment of the debt and its interests is prioritised to the expenditure of pensions, sanitation, education, welfare. Yes, that's a year old, a lost decade; a lost decade to guarantee the fundamental rights and fundamental rights of a lot of the population. This is the lost decade and this is his responsibility. Going to the police station. The People's Party makes a..., well, defends its clear neoliberal doctrine where it sweeps it all and makes a young man talking about various issues; above all, despite other elements, its main objective is to see the tax rebate. A tax reduction that they mask with populism, but in the background what it does is to continue to enhance inequalities, to continue to enhance the accumulation of a few, and what it does in the background is to destroy or seek to destroy public services; therefore, to continue to send more people every time to the margins, so as not to have access to public health and public education, because, like less taxes, less public services, like less taxes, more private health, and that means that only access to it can be paid. And it's that talking about taxation is also analyzing social rights and how they guarantee social rights. And he doesn't say "CUP" or "lefts." The year 2013 the High Commission for Human Rights, yes, the Office of the High Commission for Human Rights warned, in a consultation to the governments that conform the United Nations to evaluate the fiscal regime of the states, that fiscal policy is relevant to the consideration of the questions of human rights and extreme poverty. I said: "The low tax revenues could be an important obstacle to the compliment of the State's obligation to ensure the progressive development of economic, social and cultural rights. Tax exists for this, to redistribute the wealth. Therefore, it is not just a matter of common sense or, as it used to be, of being left-handed, which tells us that a fair taxation enriches us and favors the conjunction of the people; the United Nations says so. And, in fact, I didn't or didn't just say it since 2013. The petition to promote mobilization or the movement of resources linked to human rights goes very far: 1966, the international pact of economic, social and cultural rights. Already there is the obligation that all Member States should collect the maximum resources to achieve progressively, for all appropriate means, including the adoption of legislative measures, the full realization of the rights there collected, the economic, social and cultural rights. But it's more: numerous studies have manifest that now, after the pandemic, the high concentration of income and wealth is in the hands of the richest and most unequal population. The crisis of the covid has accentuated these inequalities. And it's not just United Nations, the CUP or the lefts. International Monetary Funds, OECD, show the need to increase taxation; therefore, capital taxation for individuals with greater economic capacity. They do not demagogicise or populism, because you, in this supposed attempt to protect low returns, do not guarantee access to public services of quality and universal, because what they do is to retail public services that already carry years of abuse for decades of neoliberal policies and of retailing, thanks, among others, to their party. We, though there may be some good intentions at some point in the future, will vote that this motion is not, because the economic view that distills it is absolutely opposed to ours, and it is also full of economic and class prejudices. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.117.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.118.0	Nice late, isn't it? Oh, yeah, I'll be right there. Well, we obviously don't like the motion presented by the Mixed Group, the People's Party. There are also points that we will vote that no, there are some that we will vote that yes. I think it's four points in which we will vote that yes and a pair in which we will abstain. We will vote that they are clearly... because they obey, say, a logic of interventionist economic policy, in order to somehow change the functioning of the economic model that does not satisfy them. And he knows the Mixed Group, and other groups, that we have interventionism and regulation in favor of the changes and deficiencies of the system we like; we like to be spoken from public powers to improve things that don't work. But obviously the others will vote against it. We will vote against it, because they draw an outdated economic model. They're working on a paradigm that today I think is already totally out of date and questionable within the world. Situating that defiscalization or deregulation can help create greater economic dynamism seems to be out of time. Precisely all of our studies are telling us that in order to generate greater economic dynamism as a major leader in the public sector, we also have determined economic and social circles that make it easier for there to be an economic change, a greater dynamism, a greater economic growth. Because the problem of major or lesser dynamics is bad whether the society is cohesive or not, of the levels of inequality; whether it is a healthy society or not, of the health systems that are generated; whether it is the training structure that you see with the occupation that allows the use of the techniques that allow innovation – we have a training structure, which we have, which is not suitable, is not functional, in some way, for the technological changes that allow the use of the techniques that allow innovation–; whether it is the business model that you have, if it is a work model that encourages innovation and the business change, or is a work model that facilitates precarious, baratized, extensive work that disincentives the investment in physical capital, with which you have, if it is a work model that encourages innovation and the business change, or it is a job model that facilitates precarious, baratized, that disincentives the investment and the organizational model that would allow, in a modern way, of technology. Therefore, we say, prioritising precarious work models..., they lead us to what they bring us: the lack of a public sector with the capacity to lead business modernization; the business dimension is also a problem that can determine greater or lesser dynamism; the clientelism that administrations use in relationships with certain companies, which also does not modernize, because they know they have captive markets, or corruption, that they know well the propositions of the young man. These are elements in which we can act or in which we should act if we want, precisely, to give greater entrepreneurial dynamism. On the contrary, we need to exercise the necessary fiscal pressure, the right to obtain sufficient public resources, precisely to do these things, to correct these structural deficiencies that we have, which may cause us to lose business dynamism. Because if we lose business dynamism, it's precisely because the economic and social structure we have is not adequate enough because companies are developing and modernizing. And that, I insist, is in the turn of the public sector, is in the social conditions, of salvation, of life, of the work model, etcetera. Therefore, we will not vote in favour of the proposals that are in this situation. Yes, however, I repeat that we will be voting in favour of those who place elements of intervention, which place elements of leadership in the public sector to change some of these issues that are at the root of the problems. Obviously, we will lead..., we are in favour of approaching a better level of professional training, making it more functional in changes on the job market, and at the same time ensuring that young people can access it with ease. And, obviously, we are also in favour of public sector leaders promoting the internationalization of our businesses. We believe that we need a powerful public sector, in this case the foreign offices, which help companies to internationalize, can supply foreign markets. Or those questions that I also have to see, from the dynamism of the public sector, to help provide greater size and greater capacity to innovate small and medium-sized enterprises. We believe that these are necessary, but precisely for these, we need the public resources needed to make public policies necessary. All the more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.119.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.120.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, one more time, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today the People's Party brings us a young man who, to our mind, is generally very reasonable. We will vote that yes to most of the points, it takes some of the points that they want to see with tax issues, not because we do not share the hope, let us say, of the need for Catalonia to have a drastic reduction in the taxes that we pay the citizens of Catalonia and that, in short, they are a way of preventing the economic development of the middle classes, the economic development, in short, of our company, of our autonomies, but because there are some very concrete elements with which we cannot agree and, therefore, we will abstain in some of the points. But the vast majority of the young man seems to us to be entirely reasonable. The diagnosis he makes is absolutely assigned. I believe that, from a realistic point of view, the situation in Catalonia in economic terms cannot be said to be acceptable, not to mention very little. Unfortunately, what we always find that we warn of this situation that we live in Catalonia in economic terms is that the Government of the Generalitat, the separatist parties tell us that no, that everything is lied, that everything is a speech of por, that everything is tremendism. And I would like to recall, in this sense, what a Germanic politician Karl Deutsch said, that nationalism is the ideology that has the greatest capacity to inhibit the rational behaviour of people who profess it in the decision-making process. And, indeed, I believe that nationalism inhibits rational behaviour in economic terms of the Government of the Generality, because what it does is it prevents projects and proposals from being made, it is supposed, it is economic policies that are actually oriented towards the economic progress of our community. Many international institutions have pointed to this economic decline in Catalonia, and recently we have seen a study by the London School of Economics, which these days some of us are quoting with a certain insistence, but which points to an element that perhaps is not so much in mind and that I also want to point to the consideration of the stand of the separatist parties, which is precisely – and I see here Councilman Giró, had not seen it, forgive him – a question that was already commented on by him on the other day, which is the loss of confidence between..., not the rest of Spain towards Catalan enterprises – this is a phenomenon that is legitimately offensive to separatist tension, because of the tension provoked by the Government of the Generality – but rather to the fact that this aspect of trust is particularly concerned by London. The Catalan society, unfortunately, is deeply divided from the point of view of national adscription, and this makes the economic projects, that initiative, entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship are badly affected, very much touched, precisely because of the malaise, because of the mistrust between Catalan citizens who profess the independenceist ideology and those we did not. It's an aspect that I think is no less, that sense of doubt weakens our community, prevents many projects that could be combined between entrepreneurs of different ideology, with very different visions of Catalonia, can make joint bets to improve and to progress, for the progress of our community. It is an aspect which I believe is certainly not sufficiently taken into account, beyond that, logically, of the effects in terms of legal insecurity, in terms of political instability, in terms of clarity and reduction of bureaucratic passages. This, from the point of view of the reversal..., of the international investor, is a fundamental aspect. Money flees from instability; entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship has places where there has been legal uncertainty, where there has been political tension. Logically, if someone has to sort out, he has to choose between investing in a community with a tax policy that favors the business, such as the Community of Madrid, or bringing his company to a community that, let's say, is characteristic of his tax drive, so he will surely choose the community where he has the most facilities. He even said it the other day someone so little suspected of being from Ciutadans as the footballer of Barça Gerard Piqué. Indeed, many citizens of Catalonia feel envious of the way Madrid works in economic terms. And about their economic progress, so we can talk a lot about it, but it's obvious that Catalonia is currently in a demise, that we're very sorry and that we're still trying to reverse it. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.121.0	Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, Mrs Eva Parera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.122.0	Thank you very much, President. You see, I find it sensational that I never have any responsibility for anything to life. You must live in an incredible way. Everything, everything is always the fault of the others. This has a name, it's immature politics, and when it's government it's very complicated to have immature politics. Maybe he's responsible for something. That left-wing parties don't believe in lowering taxes, don't surprise. We see it; it's obvious, it's part of its political agenda to push taxes. Now, Junts for Catalunya, you'll forgive me, eh? I didn't hear a single mention or a single reference to what we proposed here, which was the tax download. This, Mr. Tremosa, is not the motion of decay; on the contrary, it is a motion to come out of decay. You've called it bad enough. And the Socialist Party of Catalonia is right when it said a phrase that seemed very uncertain to me, which is that we carry two years lost. And it's true: we're wearing two lost years. They're talking about the port of Tarragona. But where was it, a week ago, at the summit of the Mediterranean corridor? Don't be – don't be. The great pes of the current assumptions are tickets that come from the State and come from the European Union. He's not capable of own management, I should say a lot, that. A lot of independence, a lot of independence, but thanks to God, we give thanks every day for the funds that come to us, especially from the FLA, that are saving our accounts every year and that of us above the European Union. Please be a little more coherent. We want to get out of Europe, we want to get out of Spain, but thank God we have the foundations of Spain and we have the foundations of Europe. That doesn't work that way. So I'm already taking responsibility, and please, and I understand... It is not true, gentlemen of the UPC, that "less taxes are less helpful – it is not true. The services went according to the recap. And today it's proven that less tax is more recap, not less recap. It's the other way around, it's more recap. So, no, we're not still demagogs, because now what we're doing is helping not shut down businesses if we lower taxes and help consumers if we don't push taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.123.0	Thank you very much. So, after the debate, I'm guessing that we're going to proceed with voting points 15 to 20 of the order of the day, which correspond to the motions for substance this morning. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the government's debt to the local world (continuation)]] [[302-00049/13]] We will begin with the vote on motion 15, the motion following the question to the Government about the government's debt to the local world. We start by voting points 2 and 9. The vote begins. These two points were approved with 115 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected with 46 votes in favour, 76 votes against, 9 abstentions and one person who does not vote. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected with 40 votes in favour, 85 against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has been rejected with 56 votes in favour, 76 votes against and no abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved with 121 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the financing of local governments (continuation)]] [[302-00056/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the financing of local governments. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved with 74 votes in favour and 58 votes against. We're voting points 2, 4 and 4.b now. The vote begins. These points were approved with 81 votes in favour and 51 votes against. We're voting 3rd point now. The vote begins. Point 3.a_has been approved with 80 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b_has been approved with 113 votes in favour and 19 votes against. We're voting now on point 4.c. The vote begins. Point 4.c_is approved with 121 votes in favour and 10 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into social policies (continuation)]] [[302-00057/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into social policies. Let's vote, first place, point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 13 votes in favour, 113 votes against and three people who do not vote. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point number 10 has not been approved. He obtained 11 votes in favour, 119 votes against and 2 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The rest of the points of the young man have not been approved either. They got 18 votes in favour and 114 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the control mechanisms of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra (continuation)]] [[302-00050/13]] We shall now vote on the motion following the question to the Government on the control mechanisms of the Squadron Cos de Mossos. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has received 51 votes in favour, 16 against and 65 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has not been approved with 40 votes in favour and 92 votes against. And now we're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3 was approved by 97 votes to 20, with 15 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into Europe's future (continuation)]] [[302-00051/13]] We now vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the future of Europe. In the first place, we shall vote on points 1 and 2. The vote begins. These points were approved with 72 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved with 81 votes in favour and 51 votes against. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved with 113 [[applause]] votes in favour and 19 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the evolution of the economy (continuation)]] [[302-00052/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the evolution of the economy. We vote in the first place points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were not approved with 51 votes in favour and 81 votes against. We now vote point number 3, letters a, b, c, d, e, f and g. The vote begins. This point was not approved with 13 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now at 3. The vote begins. The 3.h_point received 15 votes in favour, 79 against and 38 abstentions. We're voting point three now, letters and, k, n. The vote begins. These points received 47 votes in favour, 85 votes against. We're voting now on the 3rd letter. The vote begins. This point received 104 votes in favour, 20 against, 7 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. This point received 51 votes in favour, 74 against and 7 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number three, letter m. The vote begins. This point was approved with 123 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We suspend the session until this is two-quarters late. Thank you very much. At the bank of his Government the President of the Generality, accompanied by the Councillor of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, the Councillor of Health and the Councillor of Social Rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.124.0	[[Motion following the Government's inquiry into planned policies to address the consequences of climate change and the energy crisis]] [[302-00053/13]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.220.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, Counselor. First of all, therefore, to give thanks to the representation, to the negotiators and negotiators of the parliamentary groups of the PSC, Esquerra and Juntes, for the discussions and transactions that we have reached to agree and to include in this defined text. I know it's hard, because it's true that they're minor items or transactions, which, in fact, at important points, isn't it? , the points, therefore, that speak of a country model, has not been possible again to reach a consensus. But the reality is what it is. We have opposing positions with the Olympic Games or the airport or other themes; it simply tastes hard, but it must be noted that in the other themes we have understood. Well, yesterday we started talking about COP26 and today I'm going to get back to the subject, linked to this young man. Because, as we said yesterday, they made some arrangements for us who were totally inadequate. And this COP26 has only served to observe, in our view, three key themes important and shared for most countries, entities, etc., attending this summit. First of all, it's a constant aggravation of the climate crisis, isn't it? , obviously linked to the rate of growth of many countries and with the consequent increase in emissions that lead us to a scene of a minimum of 1.5 degrees in question of a few years. Secondly, the perpetuation of the differences between the global south and the countries that mark the pace of international politics and that are also the most responsible for this climate emergency was also made clear. And in the third place, and very difficult, the political incapacity to advance the struggle against this global crisis with binding agreements to stop it, between the different countries. And it's sad, isn't it? And we don't escape to Catalonia either. Here in this Parliament we often talk about the tax policy, because it is a reality that we live – perfect. But we also need to start talking to us about terms, such as, for example, the extractive media policy that makes the country the rest of the planet. For example, do you know that in Catalonia we consume all the natural resources that the planet can generate in a year, at the beginning of June, and that every time we go forward this date? And that's why you say you owe it to me. And do you know why here in Catalonia – and other countries, obviously – can we afford this debt? Because they're paying for us. Basically, they pay us the eighty percent of the world's population that he saw in extreme poverty and misery. For example, I will set an example of the grouping of indigenous peoples, the indigenous Minga, who see and see, day after day, the destruction of their territory for capitalist extractivism that serves to supply rich country materials like ours. The councilwoman told us, a while ago, that we lost the fight against the climate change. And maybe we lost her. If not, the first fights. But in no case the finale. With the country also responsible for this crisis, we understand that we are still in time to make changes, important changes, to mitigate and try to reverse it. And that's why we need to make it clear that important changes are taking place and that we can't continue to deny the evidence, that projects like Olympic Games, or the airport, or terminal digs at the port, etc., this is climate denial and you don't see reality. This is why we present today this young man, where we ask for the strategic framework of mitigation, the civic climate assembly, the scientific study of the ecological and climate patch of Catalonia, the multidisciplinary report on the climate change. We also call for a high authority on climate security, a climate justice cooperation plan, a review of the education and energy efficiency plan and the deployment of the taxes of the Catalan climate change law, which are still pending today. Finally, with this young man, we present them, you see, a minimum of minimums, a starting point to put in Catalonia the first line of struggle against the climate emergency. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar, the deputy Sílvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.126.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... Mr. Cornellà, you can't deny that this young man is clearly from the CUP, which carries the political secret of the CUP. Not only for language, but also for two ideological principles that you have declined in different documents, in different manifestations, when talking about climate change and energy transition. On the one hand, the climate change in Catalonia has to be halted by means of a conservative economic setback process. And one_second, which is the fight against the system: the "not at all," or so on. Which thing, I'd ask, if not, how? Because I'm already telling you that some of your assumptions that defense can only be defended with economic and social dominance positions. And so – and you also said – in a few points we have been able to agree; as, for example, to place renewables in anthropized spaces, to give support to the citizens' climate assembly as a citizen's participation organ, or some necessary documents for the road against climate change. At these points we'll give you support. Now, that the trees don't let us see the forest: over anthropozates, in renewables, we can't hide the reality and we can't bring the citizenry to deception. The generality's own data, through the different scenes of the Proencat, tell us very clearly that in urban spaces can only generate, as at most – as at most – 21.3 gigawatts. But on the other hand, you know as well as we do and the Proencat documents indicate, in need of sixty-three, Catalonia. Therefore, either renewable or energy dependence, lost thousands of jobs and very high voltage lines. Or one thing, or the other. And I insist that the targets set are 2030; so, from here to eight years, and we're out of time. About the documents. Look, on documents, tables and commissions, I think we have more than defined it: the strategic framework of mitigation, to update the Catalan strategy of adaptation to climate change, the Escacc; present to Parliament the national pact for energy transition to Catalonia; the energy plan and climate change; the green infrastructure programme. All these documents, jails, commissions, the pending approval of some years ago, some, the expired also, some, some years ago. I continue to do so: to deploy Law 16/2017; or Decree 16/2019, or the current one that is in force, 24/2021; or motions 6, 67, 103, 104, 119 and 145, of the Dotzena Legislature, or Resolution 546, also of the Dotzena Legislature, to cite some examples of the quantity of texts and texts that we approve. Therefore, I believe that of papers, tables, commissions, we are so burdened that what concerns us is that we do not approve contradictory points or, at last, double functional networks. And all this happens at the expense of a null government action – null. End of the moment, void. An aerogenerator in years. We're on the noranta_per_cent of final fossil energy in Catalonia. We are stuck in 1,270 megawatts of renewables in two years, which should be or should be multiplied by God. And that's not what the Socialists are saying, I'm not saying it; that's what the decree 16/2019 says, and the councilwoman, who honestly admitted that today is exactly the same as the year 2019. Therefore, in this scene we have a government that doubts between the radical position of the CUP, which chooses to stop all the economic motors of Catalonia; or to understand that the climate change – so we understand it – demands change, requires transformation and more progress in green, in place of less. And you were quoting the airport. Miri, any serious government we think would not allow or joke about the airport, which would represent or represent a two-per-cent increase in Catalan GDP. Only in billing. Only in direct billing. And your motion wants to stop – and I quote it textually – "any kind of enlargement. But there is another alternative path, the one subscribed by two-hundred Catalan entities that demand the full potential for this infrastructure and do not give up turning it into a node of progress. Therefore, the position of the UPC is radical in the sense that you do not choose to decarbonize the economy; you choose to destroy the economy. And here is a proposal, that of the PSC, which is moderate and progressive, and which takes into account climate change as a mode of reversal, transformation, creation of jobs and opportunities, above all, for working classes. Therefore, the government has to decide which way to choose. This motion, to turn off the engines like the airport or the port, the Pyrenees, the Winter Games, or to sit at the side of the solutions, that from our point of view go to improve the economy and understand that the European and international criteria are renewable, and above all based on photovoltaics and wind power. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.127.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs.Glòria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.128.0	Thank you, President. MPs, counselor... CUP's climate action motion, with fourteen points; I don't know how many barred fears that, in the end, I don't know if it's a price or a little campaign slogan. But they're on your right. See, from Junts to Catalunya, answer. Our answer will be a yes. A yes to the climate emergency mitigation plan; a yes to the civic climate assembly; a yes to publish Catalonia's environmental and climate patch; a yes to provide the necessary tools to the committee of experts to carry out the tasks assigned to it by the Catalan law of climate change and which have not yet been carried out; a yes to a sustainable airport; a yes to an international hub connecting Catalonia with the talent of the planet, which gives the best opportunities to Catalan businesses, which open the door to more multinationals to situate their technological hubs in Catalonia; yes to a Catalonia that follows a true knowledge society. [[Greetings.]] Yeah, we're still with the yes, you're gonna leave me out of time. If you ask the State that I invest in rolling everything that has been asked for once and again, that you do not ask for it, that we ask for it from here and that we ask the Spanish Government directly. And he was going to say yes to a port, because they have put here a point that poses against the enlargement of the port of Barcelona. If you're referring to rail connection, which is a sustainable and non-polluting means of transport, we don't just hear what you're looking for at this point. And finally, yes to all the measures that guarantee that Catalonia will comply with the European directives of 2030. Look, if Junts for Catalunya were to have a hard samarreta in this Faristol, we'd have to have one that you put in a yes. And we'd like to make them come home a little bit, this yes, because to me these samaretes..., that I have pointed out some of the things they always carry here, that it's always « No to, « Stop, « Let's take it, « Let's not allow it, « We'll fight against it. He's not immobilism, he's leaving things as they are. It is to continue cremating fossils, it is not to fight against the climate crisis, it is not to defend the collective transport by sea or air, it is not to the development of the lands of the Pyrenees. It's a no to 2030 Catalonia. Since this Parliament, we have made a law against climate change; we have declared the climate emergency; we have made a moratorium on incinerators that allowed us not to pull before the incinerator of Cercs in Berlin; we have validated a decree of renewable energies. Therefore, we want them at the side of this yes, because the idea is that all that this Parliament approves is completed. And here we need everyone. Well, now you're from Glasgow and you've seen it. As much as we put solar plates on all the terraces of Catalonia and two windmills per town, we don't get there. We're not getting to the target. We need towns and cities full of solar roofs and solar hors. We need so many mills there where there is air to make possible the objectives of the Catalan law of climate change and for the national pact for the energy transition of Catalonia, which are objectives to make a better life, a life more worthy for the citizens of this world and also for the future of our children. And yes, we're not fooling ourselves, we're changing the landscape; but we're changing the landscape because there's a landscape in it. I think we need pedagogy, we need sensitivity and we need responsibility for all of you, because we need to make the citizenry see that this is also his project, because it is a project of the future for them and for everyone. We would like to see that we have this project, because we believe that, in the end, we are going to go to the pedagogy of which we cannot make – here not a solar plate, there also a mole – I don't think it helps to reach these 2030 goals. And I'm done. Two things. One question. You were talking about responsibility, how you went to Glasgow, and before – if I can make a joke – I asked him how he had gone to Glasgow, because most of the activists have gone by train, especially those who can get there, and you told me that they had gone there with a plane; with a sustainable plane, but at the end of the Barcelona airport. Look, I grew up in a sad, grey, insecure Barcelona, which will probably remind them of Barcelona that Ada Colau will stop us. But this Barcelona..., we would like to share only for a moment with all the Barcelonans that those Olympic Games meant to us. Because those Olympic Games put Barcelona, Banyoles, the Seu d'Urgell and also Catalonia in the middle of the world, and in the end it was about sports and making games at home that had invented the Greeks, not us. Let's see, it's over. You're assembling – I say very quickly – and the majority are winning. Take these majorities to the territory and let us ask the lands of the Pyrenees whether or not they want this illusion. Welcome to the world of yes. Wait. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.129.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia, has the word the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.130.0	Go, after the ovation, so-so. President, Councillor, Members, Members... Mr Cornellà, I really want to thank you for the fact that after last week's inquiry we can discuss, or debate, this motion to the House, because I believe that, as a result of other debates that other groups have been putting up in the chamber, just a moment ago what we are getting is that the parliamentary chamber, the Parliament of Catalonia, the struggle against climate change, the defense of the environment and of sustainability is taking on a centrality that is close to it. Progressively, it is at the centre of Catalan politics, as it is also thanks that the Government, when it is constituted, creates the Climate Action Council, and as it is also thanks to Councillor Jordan, who, if I am not mistaken with the days, with a hundred or fewer days that are ahead of the Council, has set himself at the head of the Council, press the accelerator, with hopes of developing everything that we have been waiting for to pass; in concrete terms, with the deployment of the climate change law, that I remember that, although we are emerging from the climate, the example of the digital tax system is still pending from the year 2017; the modification..., with the disappearance of the law of the climate change, that, despite the fact that we are in the process of changing the tax system, there is still a long way to be deployed from the year 2017; the modification of the law of the climate change, which, in fact, is the moralization of the moralization, the modification of the digital, the translation, the translation and the translation of the You have spoken of COP26 and would be another example of how some continue with ideas of green church and climate denial. The world is centering around the climate change. Before it was over, the young man was a total of fourteen points. Very long, extensive. We have presented papers in many places; you know that with a will of understanding. We have been able to reach agreements – I appreciate the predisposition –: the strategic framework for climate change mitigation, the creation and convening of the citizens' climate assembly, the study of the ecological landscape in Catalonia or the fourth report of climate change, among others. And I thank him for this good will, in other cases it was not possible. When papers and transactions are presented, sometimes it's over. But there are three cases in which I would like to make a specific point, because I believe that we have not reached an agreement, not because there is no possibility of agreement, but that you have wanted to make a manifest intention of political demarcating and positioning a legitimate party – it is totally legitimate – but it does not help us to form these consensuses that we believe we are willing to present. And I'm saying it, because I think the papers submitted for the Republican Left Group and the willingness we've had were more extensive and willing to consent. Other groups have decided to present, like the SCP, directly suppression reviews of those points that I knew were more important to you, and, on the other hand, we have tried to seek consensus, that what I want to translate is that it is important that we build them, because they are not always dying from where they have always been while there are major ones that strengthen their positions. And, therefore, we must be able to look for common points, which, even though they allow us to move forward a little, allow us to build major alternatives. These three points... there were three of them, and I'll try to go fast because I'm running out of time. In one band, the port. We wanted to find out who these expansion projects are, and we didn't find them. We presented a message to you to ask the port that, if I may say so, of a punch once in a while present a schedule of electrification of the springs and a plan of reduction of emissions in Barcelona. We thought he was good for the city of Barcelona and the metropolitan area, but it was not possible to agree with you. On the other hand, the Olympic Games. I believe that you have understood... that you have seized the emena that we presented as a renunciation. I believe that in any case it was a waiver – not a waiver –; that we proposed to them was a concern, in line with what we have granted in the Investment Pact, and that together with the Junts Group we approved on October 14th to the Commission of Institutional Affairs, which was to set up before it was a consultation and then defend every one that we legitimately believed. And its not the commons is totally legitimate, but first we have to make a consultation if what we want is to give the view to the citizen; otherwise, we may be deciding before we consult. And the third point, the airport, which is the eternal debate does not exist, in my opinion, but I see that we are going to find it from time to time. And we put a message to them, which was the text that we agreed with a common people's motion a few months ago, and which, in fact, was the text that the greatest consensus has achieved here in Parliament. A text that won 105 votes in favor of 135, and not even giving the maximum consent, was not possible to deal with you either. I'm aware that there are more fears, there's no time left. I just want to wrap it up again with the good, predisposition, and willingness in what we've been able to get to and what we haven't, until there's been a good dialog. And just convey to him that I'm sure, I'm convinced that, despite the sound and political context that today has not made it possible for us to reach agreement on these points..., I'm convinced that when the sound has passed, we will continue to understand and arrive, as we have always done, in agreement, because we share both the output point and a large part of the way to travel and, above all, we share the goal, the goal, that is, the fight against climate change. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.131.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.132.0	Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion presented to us by the UPC could perfectly be the script of a bad apocalyptic film. In their communist delusions, they present us with a proposal that is a real punishment for Catalans, although according to what is looked at it could also be the film The Return of Witches, since you dare to predict that in 2030 – i.e., nine years from now – there will be no snow for climate change. Look, I, when I read these things, I don't know whether to laugh or cry. What I am sure is that it is a pity that the budgets of the Generalitat depend on a totalitarian group and that they are now thought to be in a tarot. Really, leave the crystal balls and your apocalyptic speech. Let's be honest, you know, snow matters to a cucumber, and if anything matters to you is to go skiing, we all know each other to the left caviar. [[Some applause.]] They are more likely to please the leaders of feminist religions and 'ecolojets' than to help the worst families who are going through it and really need it. They propose measures aimed at impoverishing our economy by removing any kind of significant investment for Catalonia; on top of that they intend to stifle us through more climate taxes, as if we did not have enough with the CO2 tax, among others. By the way, Spain is only responsible for the twenty-seventh_per_cent of emissions from all over the planet. If the percentage of Spain is minimal, I don't even want to tell you what the percentage of Catalonia is. But you continue with your apocalyptic delusions that only seek to ruin us, destroying industries and ending thousands of jobs. In short, their well-known philosophy of decline and their proposals seek to impose a transformation of the economic, social and family model that leads to the impoverishment of the middle and working classes in order to diminish their purchasing power, their quality of life, and in this way they are more dominating to the globalist elites that finance their target groups. The solutions they propose go through the creation of more useless superstructures – in other words, more chiringuitos – such as the creation of a high authority on climate to see how much it pollutes or stops contaminating Catalonia. We don't have a little bit on climate change, but if I remember correctly, there are a few, such as the Catalan Climate Change Office, the Inter-Departmental Climate Change Commission, the Climate Change Committee and the Social Table of Climate Change. You, the CUP, are the lords of the no: not to the expansion of the airport, not to the Winter Olympics, not to the expansion of the port... In short, not to the wealth and prosperity of the Catalans. Look, I'll tell you in four words: CUP equals ruin. Obviously, VOX will vote against this motion. We will only discuss proposals related to really helping our farmers, farmers or the empty Catalonia that so much investment needs. You're a ballast to the Catalans. Don't count on us. They will always have us in front of their policies to sink Catalonia. And, as always, I remind you: be sure that the sooner we get it and we will recover for Catalonia the great national project that is Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.133.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the truth is that listening to speeches... I don't even mention the last one not to make parallels, but the speeches of Junts for Catalonia, the PSC, and of those who will follow, of Ciutadans and of the PP, there is like a mantra according to which ecology... the social intervention that generates is poor. It would be graceful if you weren't forced to, because in reality what you're saying is deeply phonementalistic. We wear two years of deregulating the economy, two years of taxing who else we have, and we wear two years of increasing the poor, increasing inequalities in our home. And it's profoundly phonemental to keep coming here today to demand that it's still putting airports in the center, building Las Vegas in Catalonia... But does anyone, really, with five sayings on the front, consider building a paraphernalia like the city of Las Vegas in Catalonia to be a serious and future project? From the future for you, who will not be there serving drinks and who will not be there doing the tasks that the Kellys do in this country, who make the Cambers and Piss Cambers; from the future for whom the Lands come, for whom I cover the three_per_cent of commissions, as you have done all your life. But for the rest of the country, this is not future. Now the Olympic Winter Games are the future. And the olympics of the Mediterranean, this one who pays for it? How come there aren't any big speeches about the Olympic Games in the Mediterranean right now? Because they were a puff, and you know it all – and you know it all. See if you know, you've lost even the mayor of Tarragona. See if you know – see if you know. And the problem is this. It's been a while since Glasgow's summit was celebrated. And where are we? In the compromise to reduce emissions by forty-five percent by 2030 and to have a net emissions balance by 2050. Why? In order not to increase more than one degree and a half the temperature increase before the end of the century, which is a very precarious compromise, but which is still kept at climate peaks. And where are we? In that they have already increased 1.2 degrees the average temperature of the planet and that if we follow this will increase between two degrees and half-2.7 degrees and four and a half degrees in the worst scene that the IPCC has laid. There is a speech that is very self-fulfilling, which is to say: « COP26 does not work because the great world leaders do not have any type of compromise in the future of the planet. And it's true, we all agree. But, and the small regional leaders like the Generalitat de Catalunya, what compromise do they have with the planet? Because Catalonia is as it is in its commitments to climate change: we are not even two percent of renewable energy; we have lost twenty-five percent of biodiversity since the year 2000 until today; we have increased emissions by thirty percent compared to 1990; in the area of waste, recycling is off, reuse is not only not stalled, but each time we reuse less and use more packaging than one. There is no minimally ambitious waste reduction plan and, therefore, the problem of waste remains each year larger. And we could keep up with all the challenges we have to face like Catalonia to rise to the commitments we demand in the field of climate change. We're all the same or worse than we were two years ago, the same or worse than we were when this topic wasn't on the table. And, therefore, I think we can talk about two years lost, but I think we also need to talk about how we can accelerate the pace in the fight against climate change so that we don't lose the next two and recover all the lost years. I, therefore, need to accelerate. And it is clear that it is important to accelerate the deployment of renewable energies to Catalonia, the deployment of the climate change law. We must continue to implement green taxation so that we can apply not only the polluter-pays principle, to mobilise resources to mitigate the effects of climate change in our country, to force procedures and to conclude reindustrialisation procedures at home, green reindustrialisation, renewable energy alternatives also in the world of industry. And above all to rethink the future of Catalonia. Today I took the wheel of pressure at the Hospital of Llobregat, because justice has fallen the PDU of Great Way. And what's the problem? That there is a government to the law accompanying assumptions that says, "Well, if we lose this in court, we'll tear down the competition at the joints and the metropolitan area and do it for the back door. Madam Counselor, I told you once: you can have Esquerra Republicana's Climate Action Council, but if you continue to allow "socio-virgency to build the country for the back door, we will not only not advance, but we will continue to retreat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.135.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.136.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of this House, this motion on energy transition and climate change allows us once again to make clear in this rostrum what the position of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens is on this issue. And it also allows us to remember – which is not wrong to remember from time to time – that this government loves to fill its mouth with the words « climate action, beautiful words, « fight against climate change, with having the first law, with being the first to declare the emergency, but then, in the background, it has no plan. And here we have already seen that there are some who are in the yes, others who are in the no, but we want to bring them to the yes, others who do not know very well where they are on some issues, and the summary is that, between one and the other, the reality – and in that I think we are absolutely all agreed – is that no progress is made. Well, as for our position, in Citizens we have said it many times, we have as one of our main objectives, one of our essential objectives, to move towards a society in which all of us, each of us, can develop our life plan in the way we each choose, in the way in which we each want to, in the way in which we each want to. And in our principles it is also that we can do it with equal opportunities, that we can do it under the same conditions, with the only limitation not to condition or not interfere with the freedoms of others in an unjustifiable way. That principle, which is in our DNA, which we take to rajatabla, also has an intergenerational projection with future generations. That intergenerational projection requires that in our actions, in our way of acting, we also respect the need for future generations to have equal opportunities in our environment, in our natural resources, in our environment, in terms of climate. In that way, I do not need to tell you that the preservation of the environment, that the fight against climate change, is, of course, something that in our party is paramount and fundamental to us. That is why we will vote in favour of the few points that can be saved in this motion and which speak of that struggle, that need, that fight against climate change and the use of resources in a more sustainable way. However, the position of the proposing group is not so much that of moving towards more sustainable energy models, but simply that of not moving forward; it is simply that of not moving towards anything, or rather I would even say how to go back. It's an option like any other, I don't say no, and at least you can be recognized as saying it openly. Here in the Chamber we have other groups that do not often know where they are. I read you some of his progressive proposals to move towards a more sustainable society: to give up any expansion of Prat airport – now with the excuse of emissions, before it was with the excuse of Ricardo – ; to withdraw the plan of the expansion of the port – for the same reason, now it is with the excuse of emissions, sometimes it is with the excuse of tourists –; to renounce the Olympic candidacy of Barcelona-Pirineus 2030 – now it is no longer known what excuse, with the snow, they put now –, or to create taxes. Those are the only alternatives to progress they have. Comrade Ferro said that many of us here – and he was already talking about the interventions that will follow – we say or associate that ecologicalism generates poverty. Well, nothing... yeah, yeah, she's listening to me. Well, nothing further from reality. Gentlemen, I believe that the countries that are leaders in renewable energy, I believe that the countries that have the most advanced, most efficient technologies, are precisely, today, because countries that are also leaders in general development. And that is why I say to you that the proposals to combat climate change cannot be to give up any action, they cannot be to stop everything, they cannot be to take us to the past, but to the contrary. It has to be to unlock the deployment of renewable energies in Catalonia; it has to be to invest in innovation to have cleaner energy sources, such as hydrogen; it has to be that, instead of planting war on the automotive sector, we generate those incentives so that the automotive industry we have in our region can develop cleaner technologies. And it has to be..., and this does have to frame everything and there will be no region in the world that can advance in innovation, in investments of transformation, that does not have legal certainty. In short, in order to fulfil our commitment as a region in the fight against climate change, this Government would have to work just contrary to what this motion proposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.137.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.138.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is, I'm reading the place and thinking we need to go back to the caves. It's just that you propose to give up everything. We have to give up the airport, we have to give up the port, we have to give up the Olympic Games, and they haven't asked us to give up the furniture, the tablets and the computer, because, of course, it would be a little strange to see them here all using contaminating objects, right? They seem to want to give up economic and social progress. And I think we're wrong. We don't have to decline, what we have to do is grow well, grow better. If we decline we will not generate the necessary resources to finance the necessary changes, which are certainly necessary. I don't know if you've quantified everything you ask here: ask for more agencies; ask for more external reports... I suppose that's why you also ask for more taxes, so you can finance all this. And, I don't know, they have to think that the government and the council in question are useless integrals, because, of course, everything gets out, all the studies are to go away, everything is to go away. I think we're very, very wrong. We do not face environmental protection with progress and growth, because otherwise we should be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.139.0	Thank you very much. Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.140.0	Thank you, President. Well, two minutes short, but I'll try. Look, as the communist obviously assumes many contradictions every day, because we live in a capitalist system, which is not mine, and we live in a Spanish state that is not mine either. And I hope you, from Junts, also share with me that you see with contradictions. They say they're independent and they're here in an autonomous parliament and they want to approve an autonomous assumption. Therefore, we do not accuse ourselves of... we totally assume the contradictions that we have, we would only lack. But if you only want to pose, then, on the subject of the plane, that it is a good" foolish... example, and obviously that we assume the contradiction, as I assume, unfortunately, hundreds every day. It also assumes what I say to you and does not go so far as to ask Madrid or to rule with the PSC in the Chamber, which there are many alternatives. Assume these contradictions as well. And we don't, we don't consider the Earth flat or infinite. No – no, no – we're not terraplanists. We, as I hope the majority of parties that are here, know that the Earth is round and finished, and that this cannot continue in any way. And what does it mean to grow up well... what does it mean to grow up well? Growing well means continuing to consume, means continuing to destroy as many years ago as we have been doing. And that's obviously going to be late or late, and not because the UPC says so, because we're still, yes, communists, that doesn't happen king, just because it's a reality, because it's all over. We want to decrease, obviously, from everything that destroys, that's a lot, like these projects that present us, and from everything that generates precariousness, that also represent these projects, so they put us on the table, right? Like Las Vegas in Catalonia, a project people stalled in the territory and obviously we don't want to. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.141.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be this late, once the twenty-third point of the order of the day is substantial. Let's move on, then, to the twenty-two point... [[Eva Parera and Escrichs ask to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Parera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.142.0	To ask for a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.143.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.144.0	...of point 1, and then points 12 and 14, which they could go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.145.0	Okay. Perfect. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into access to services in Catalonia]] [[302-00055/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-two point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the access to the service to Catalonia which is sparsely populated; presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pode. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.146.0	Thank you, President. Well, we present with this motion a series of proposals, concrete measures, in order to face the territorial inequalities that are manifest between the metropolitan Catalonia, densely populated, and the rural Catalonia, is to say, that Catalonia with low density of population, that Catalonia that is buiding, that Catalonia that is strongly enveloped and that sometimes presents a strong under-supply of infrastructures and services, and that is precisely why Catalonia is also with lower levels of productivity and with lower levels of family income available. Faced with this reality, we contrast the concept of territorial equity, that is, that, viscous on viscous of the country, you can have access to the same levels of income and the same levels of service. That is why we want this Parliament to approve a territorial equity law that does three things: the first, to guarantee territorial equity as a right; the second, to provide us with territorial planning instruments to guarantee this right of the Government of Catalonia; and the third, to create a foundation for financing comprehensive intervention projects for the territorial development of vulnerable rural areas. And it is in this line that the first point of our youth is going through, through which, therefore, what we set up is that the government has tools to plan territorially the investments and the measures that will last the different departments of the Generality in a transversal way to advance towards this territorial equity. In the House, however, we also have a whole series of proposals, measures, to deal with the shortcomings that Catalonia has today, which are sparsely populated for which it does different services. In the first place, we propose to enable the Catalan Institute of Finance as a commercial public bank, which, among other things, guarantees the provision of stable banking services to small municipalities. Published on the 9th, the other day, that in the last 20 years the number of bank offices was reduced by more than half. So, for example, Alpens, Gombren, Lluçà, Molló, Oristà, Perafita or Santa Maria de Besora are municipalities that today no longer have a banking office and have not had any. But it's that cities like Manlleu went from seven offices in 2001 to only four offices in 2021. Similar is the situation of the drugstores. And here we also propose measures, incentives for the establishment of pharmacies in rural areas and few villages in the country: the creation of a specific compensation fund, the remuneration of guards, the lowering of the tax burden, aid for the payment of loggers or the advancement of aid in series, some examples. We also propose measures in the field of health, which is essential: re-opening the consultants that have been shut down during the pandemic, recovering the specialties and ensuring adequate face-to-face assistance from midwives and nurses. Also better jobs for health personnel, aimed at attracting talent in these areas, or ensuring an ambulance service for twenty-four hours and a health transportation service on demand for professionals and patients. In the field of culture, we also set up a series of measures to make culture feasible, access to culture throughout the country: from libraries to cinemas and the promotion of the performing arts. And finally, in the current post-pandemic and climate-emergency context, we believe that Catalonia needs a national pact for sustainable mobility. We have to move to a country where we get less and where we have a right to access public transport. This is why there is a real revolution in the transport model, to make Catalonia a real country of trains. And that means investing in railways outside the metropolitan area of Barcelona. The train-tram of the Bages, the Camp de Tarragona or the Costa Brava set some examples in this direction. But it's obvious the railroad won't make it all the way. And, therefore, what is needed is to guarantee access to public transport from all the municipalities. That's why it's essential to redesign the bus system that we have today at home and push our systems, such as transportation on demand. I'm done. To move people and at the same time repopulate the territory and stall, there is a question that is paramount today, that is the promotion of teletreball, and that means getting the optical fiber, guaranteeing mobile phone run and a favorable regulation for this teletreball. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.147.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now it has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.148.0	Well, company and company of the commons, we will give support to the vast majority of what you propose in your youth. We understand that the measures you have proposed are basic pillars for a dignified life in any place and because there has been a systemic emptiness of the possibility of survival to the people to turn them into functional spaces for urban life. We defend a cohesive Catalan country, with territorial balance, that any person who lives in any raccoon of the Pyrenees or the Lands of the Ebre has the same services and rights as anyone who lives in the metropolitan area. And this young man we understand goes that way. A few points – to say the least – come together in the rural agenda, a part of these points come together in the rural agenda of Catalonia, which is a participatory process, built from low to high, which we see very positively. Therefore, it is for this reason that we will only abstain at a point, which is the point where we are talking about the territorial equity plan for the development of rural areas, because we already have this rural agenda in progress and this step back a part of the diagnosis of the proposed part. And a small point – little one, we did not say anything or do anything about it –: we agree with what you proposed, but – on the subject of point 9, eh? – We don't think you need to create physical library spaces for every town or we don't have dynamitzadores for this one. Surely we bet more so that there are libraries..., the regional libraries are decentralized, providing them with staff who can travel for the people encouraging reading with "The Time of the Count, Reading Clubs, or specializing in catalogs with contributions of users and users. That said, we set out two issues that we considered essential to avoid this depopulation. One of which has been incorporated and we appreciate it; it is the theme of point 14, which says: "Reject the candidacy of the Olympic Games of the Pyrenees which is supposed to deepen into the tourism monoculture and job insecurity and for its inviability in a climate crisis context. [[Some applause.]] Thank you, therefore, for making this change. You, in July, abstained on part of this motion which spoke precisely of this; now you are joining it. We are very happy and share this willingness that these games are not being played, because we understand that it is a disproposal that this candidacy, inserted in the global phenomenon that is extractive capitalism, forms part of this extractive capitalism that also causes this depopulation; of this land grabbing, of these wind farms, of these many forms that are making an extractive capitalism. Olympic games that deepen the monoculture of tourism, which generates seasonality and precariousness. A monoculture that makes, for example, that the Vall d'Aran has, according to a publication that has published The Direct – very interesting, Mr López, I recommend it now, because it speaks precisely of what it gave you, of data on the climate change that I think are interesting that you read, you study scientific – so it speaks, for example, that the seventy-nine per cent of the GDP of the Vall d'Aran depends on the tertiary sector. And of this seventy-new_per_cent, a twenty-i-four_per_cent lies directly from the inn. Or, for example, in Urgell, a 70-set_per_cent of GDP depends on the tertiary sector and a doze_per_cent directly from the hostel. Therefore, this generates seasonality and precariousness. A precariousness that has a direct influence on this depopulation and does, as the director of the CUP of the Seu d'Urgell, Bernat Lavaquiol, said a few days ago, that when the young people of Pirineu finish the ESO or the Batxillerat, if he wants to continue studying outside the house he has to go down to Lleida or Barcelona. And it makes it difficult, once the studies are finished, to return to the Pyrenees to develop its project because most jobs are temporary and precarious, linked to the inn sector. The precarious work of the tourism sector, the lack of basic services and the increase in the price of life, mainly housing, that generate, as he says, a perfect cocktail because there are many young people who take a path without returning to the city. The defense of a balanced territory, with equal conditions for all, is also the struggle against these Olympic Games, built at a time of climate emergence. I will not read the study of the University of Grenoble, which speaks of this increase in temperature and the inviability of the ski resorts, but it is interesting to read it to see that, obviously, these Olympic Games are unviable in a climate-emergency context, that they want to celebrate in a rural environment enveloped and abandoned, and that they are games that strengthen the Pyrenees as a thematic park of the metropolitan area and that will strain more the socioeconomic model towards a tourism monoculture that young people undertake towards a rural exodus. Finally, we proposed a later point that was not accepted – with the first one we are already happy – but I would like to read it. It is the "displacement of the equipment of the Generalitat de Catalunya", all guaranteeing its territorial distribution. The Generality – we added – "will start determined actions to definitively close the General Academy of Talarn Officers and put a cultural and educational equipment in its place. Because rehabilitating is also creating alternatives, such as hosting the University of the Pyrenees, a basic tool for weaving the territorial unit of this territory with equipment that should not be in any way for military uses. But, well, we, you know, we're coughing and coughing, and we're going back and we're taking down the Talarn General Academy of Petty Officers. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.149.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word Ms Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.150.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor... We have debated and, of course, we will continue to debate about territorial cohesion, about the loss of population of some surroundings and about overpopulation or the gain of population in other regions in a disorderly way and that causes public services to be totally collapsed. In Catalonia, we have said, we have two communities that lose people, and in those that do not lose, we find very different realities between the capitals of the region, the larger populations, and the smaller towns. I am sure we will be convinced that we have come this far by different factors, starting with the abandonment of agricultural holdings, the inability to earn a decent living with sufficient income, but also because of the difficulty of accessing certain basic services, essential or not, of people living in rural areas who end up looking for environment or that access is easier. The present reality is worrying, but there is much more to the future than some experts point out. For example, the study that we have sometimes already named Professors Aldomà and Mòdol, which points out that two hundred municipalities in Catalonia are at risk of disappearing. In view of this, there is no doubt that we all need to become aware and above all to act on those who have the responsibility to do so. That's what they ask us for the moves that have been self-organized. Some, in fact, have carried out a delegation work of the same department of the Government of the Generality, which is the case of Arca, for example, who is doing the whole work of the rural agenda. But also other initiatives, such as rural redevelopment tools. In any case, some people tell us that the diagnosis is already done. We could say they're hyperdiagnosed. It's time, then, to move from words to facts. Our group has said this several times: we are going to Catalonia later and, moreover, we approve the laws, but we do not take concrete measures to tackle territorial cohesion. And, of course, to call it resources and we have not been able to see, in this draft assumptions, the resources necessary to bring forward these necessary territorial cohesion policies, as other communities have done. In any case, focusing on the motion presented to us by the group of the commons, we understand that it is in line with what we want, concrete proposals on different areas that have an important impact on the rural area. We'll tell them we'll raise a good part of the young man; there's some point we won't be able to vote for him. And we've submitted papers, so, above all, in the cultural sphere and they've also done a reading of all the points in the genera key. To thank Congressman Parés for his willingness to talk about it and to reach an agreement. In the first place, you are talking about developing a territorial equity plan for the development of rural areas, which will be based on the work of the rural agenda and will be of a sectoral territorial nature. If we are honest, we are not sure that this is the best format for which it involves time to elaborate, but it is true that, while this plan is being developed, you can go about developing actions like the ones that most of you put forward in the motion and, therefore, act on what most of us agree, that there is a broad consensus. They cannot vote in favour, in change, of the second point. We are not supporters of turning ICF into a public bank. And, in fact, this necessary service that you aim – and it's true, huh? – for nothing, therefore, of banking services in the smallest municipalities, we understand that there is already a part of this service that has been assumed by Correus. Yes, we are in favour of all the points that make reference to salvation; in fact, our group has already made it manifest on various occasions. And respect those cultural measures, we have proposed ideas that we believe will improve and complement the text. And at that point we've been able to get to a deal. We will also be collecting the transport-on-demand initiative. We believe that the best of mobility is the great assignature of our country, and especially of rural areas, and that it has a very great impact at the time of accessing essential public services. And obviously, also, the essential connection of optical fiber, because, without this connection, living and working in rural areas in the 21st century is complicated, if not impossible. And, lastly, we will vote against the point they have incorporated for the CUP's talk about rejecting the Winter Olympic Games' candidacy, which we believe are an opportunity for the Pyrenees. We think they're an opportunity for the Pyrenees. And here I wanted to refer to Mr. Ferro, who before he had had to speak well of Tarragona. More than anything, to explain to him that who won the municipal elections in Tarragona were the socialists, huh? And I already understand that your group, so I haven't been able to inform you, because with the time you've had, with inclusive escapes, it's pretty complicated. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] In any case, many thanks, we will continue working for rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.151.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.152.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, councillor, good afternoon to all. The Parliamentary Group In Comú Pomão presents a motion urging the Government of the Generalitat to carry out thirteen proposals and actions consisting of providing basic services that the rural world, the depopulated Catalonia, lacks. For our parliamentary group, for VOX, the rural world is absolutely essential. I take this opportunity to show our respect and admiration to all Catalans who, despite the difficulties and abandonment they suffer, continue to cultivate the land, care for the livestock, fishing, persevering and fighting for all of us to have products in the markets. [[Greetings.]] Of course, we will support any measures that will improve the lives of our rural compatriots, who suffer from a historical deficit in investment, infrastructure and services. The exodus from the rural world has been particularly agonizing in the last decade. In Catalonia there are 336 micro-populations representing about thirty_y_five_per_cent of the territory and thirty_y_five_per_cent of the municipalities, but in which only two_per_cent of the population lives. We are facing a risk of depopulation that requires profound social and economic change. The rural world is dying. And it is dying for those policies that have been carried out for decades in which it has been governed by putting in the field sticks and more sticks. The men and women in the countryside are demanding dignity; dignity that has been taken away from them thanks to the European bureaucracy transformed into legislative formulas that have suffocated the rural inhabitants by forcing them to sell at times below the cost of production. For VOX, the traditional uses of the rural world guarantee generational relief and fix populations in our field, something that autonomous policies are charging – yes, autonomous policies – by suppressing schools, eliminating doctors and other essential services, leaving small populations and rural media without assistance. You have fashioned Catalonia unpopulated, emptied by you, by the farmers of the living room, those who walk through the offices with their shiny shoes, but who do not know how to distinguish between a loser and a crook. You and the urban ecologists are responsible for the depopulation of our peoples. Focusing on the motion before us: Mr Parés, we are presented with thirteen proposals that are a priori consumable and coherent, bearing in mind that, as I have already stated, for VOX the rural world is one of our priorities. Despite this, we are forced to vote against some of the points with a certain tufilo to communism and others because they speak of a country that does not exist. And as I said in this very atril in my last speech, we call things by their name. We will not accept the term «country to refer to a region, an autonomous community of a great country called Spain ». [[Greetings.]] On the other hand, we will agree and support everything that is good for Catalonia and the Catalans, especially when they are in a vulnerable, unjust and unequal situation, as is the case with the rural world. For VOX, the important thing is people, families and progress, and for these reasons we will ask for the vote separately. Since I have a little time left, Madam Councillor, I want to make it clear that what I have said is not empty words; what is empty is Catalonia..., our peoples, thirty_y_five_per_cent of our peoples. But the government's budgets punish the depopulated Catalonia again. The details will be dealt with in commissions and in upcoming plenary sessions, but the expenditure drops by eighty_y_five_per_cent in some regions of Lleida and Tarragona. As Mrs Ibarra reminded you yesterday: Mrs Jordà, the south also exists. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.153.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Anna Feliu.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.154.0	All right, thank you, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies... thank you, deputy parés, for putting on the table the lack of access to various servants that should have kept everyone in the abst. I know it well; soc de l'Albi, municipality of the Garrigues, if I have the honor of being its mayor as well. The depopulation, silently, remains the inhabitants of our peoples, where there are more people than there is and where there are more people who do not come from. And what happens to the Garrigues is also extrapolable to other European regions and territories. Governments must face depopulation as a priority. At the same time, we will have a country that is territorially unbalanced, socially unjust, with severe deficits and unequal rights. We need to know and recognize that those who live there take care of the country, its landscape and habitats, cultivate the camps and generate food. In short, we keep alive more than sixty percent of the Catalan territory. The concern is bad. The Committee of the Regions of the European Union has drawn up a rural action plan; the Government of Catalonia, through the rural agenda, has also put its finger on the needle to deal with the great consequences of globalisation, urbanization and aging, and the mayors and mayors work every day with initiatives to reverse the situation. These major trends are compounded by factors that also have a direct impact, such as the deficiency in road and digital infrastructure, the lower creation of work places or limited access to services. And I must urgently correct this, with public policies that address the rural agenda at the centre of government action, with positive discrimination measures aimed at improving services and facilitating repopulation. The young lady doesn't call a few. Reversal of the bank's branches, already with agreement with the entities or through the Catalan Institute of Finance, if it is possible to become a public bank itself, which is the government's will; but with the government's will there is not enough, because what is needed is precisely the authorization of the Spanish bank and also of the Spanish government, and precisely the socialist deputy also said that this is not supported by them. Also offer attractive measures for health workers who are motivated to work in rural areas. Continue to improve public transport, with transport on demand. Or guarantee digital connectivity to the entire territory with optical fiber. But, well, I don't know if they know that at this hour all the capitals of Catalonia are already connected to the optical fiber of the Generality of Catalonia, except one: the Pont de Suert, capital of the Alta Ribagorça. And why? So, to get the cable to the Pont de Suert, it has to be done for the national 230, and at hours of the day, after months and months, the Spanish government has not yet given permission to do this cable. So, man, the government that's said to be so progressive seems to be putting an end to the progress. [[Greetings.]] I, of course, also another setback to the rural areas, from the Ministry, this time, of universities – which, in fact, its party leads in Madrid –, which has explained about thirty-six_per_cent Erasmus scholarships to 293 students of the University of Lleida, made it a hardship for the formation of students of the University of the Lands of Ponent. And we can follow with a whole series of important themes reflected in the assumptions, such as rural school, better health, the program of rehabilitation of housing in small municipalities, you serve to develop dignity, and also help those who create wealth and opportunities in the rural environment, such as now young entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs, the tourism sector or pages and branches, with chains of fair value and encouraging, as well, the generational replenishment. In short, measures to ensure that those who live there can continue to do so with dignity, with prospects for the future and with equal rights and opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.155.0	And finally, in this first defence of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Antoni Flores.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.156.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, deputies and deputies. As I often remember, I come from the Pallars, the High Pyrenees, where population density is the lowest in Catalonia. We know very well the primary care centres and the pharmaceuticals in each region; we can see how the banking and postal services disappeared; we know the difficulties of many of the children and children to have educational services relative to home. And if we analyze the diffusion, and we don't say the creation of cultural projects anymore, that's almost utopian. And, unfortunately, the pandemic still made it more complicated. Any position, such as this one, that fights against the threats of over-enveloping, depopulation and abandonment of the rural world, will find alongside my group. We want to recognize the importance of the rural world for the country's conjunct; a rural world that needs key infrastructure and needs all the services that people and territories deserve. The most densely populated Catalonia has to take into account the rest of the country, not only when it needs to plan the agri-food model or energy, but always and for all, and taking into account territorial diversity; a diversity and a rural world that needs to take care of those factors that affect when a person decides to live in the rural environment in a small village. In Catalonia, there are 488 municipalities of less than a thousand inhabitants, 51,1_percent of the towns concentrate only 2.5_percent of the population. It has to end with the centralist look when the country is regulated and ordered. It is a look that takes into account the territorial diversity, which placed the rural territories at the centre of the debate. And this is what is being done especially from the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. We want a living and sustainable rural environment, and that means making investments and guaranteeing services. And, as I was saying, we're in favor of the young lady. We have given the majority of points and I thank the good task and disposition of the Member Marc Parés for the transaction of different items. The board is extensive in points about banking services, culture, transportation, connectivity, and it is very extensive in points related to health. More than that, it should help sustainable forest management; it should improve the competitiveness of rural entrepreneurship. And I'm sure we still have more things going on. For example, it is necessary to establish governance systems that take into account all the diversity, that gives a view of the territory. And here we are surprised that the CUP's message against the celebration of the Olympic Games was accepted, when the maximum consensus of this Parliament was precisely to make a prior consultation. The territory of Pirinaeus needs to have its own eyes. It needs a country project, a global project for the Pyrenees that defines what's good for the future, because the services and investments don't matter in the event of the celebration of these Olympic Games. For what it does at the teletreball point, the Generalitat will guarantee non-discrimination and ensure the quality of public service. It's currently regulated by decree and we don't think we can change it. One point and apart it deserves the first point. A little more than a month ago, Congresswoman Meritxell Serret presented a motion calling for the rural agenda and its need for approval and execution. The agenda must go back to Catalonia, for its needs, for the democratic challenge, for the generational replenishment and for social economies in the territory. It's a participative job for people and the rural world. In the contribution phase there are five thousand proposals, added to the good work of Arca, Micropopulations, ACM and Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development. The rural agenda is the plan for action in the rural world, and the best possible plan for territorial equity. Its own essence defines it that way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.157.0	Then and to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.158.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, we are ahead of one of the typical lençol motions that seems to want to fix everything by a shot. The truth is that there's a lot to fix in the rural world, but it's also very common for you to see that you're in the mood to come up with solutions – at times you've done it – magical solutions all at once. Just to say, at least respect the fact that they want to try to get the government to run their program, the one we want to say, not the one of the government. But I'm telling you, and you know it well, it can be very well-intentioned, but the guarantees of success are very few, to say the least. That the Government of the Generality – this government continues to suffer at the length of the last decade – pays attention to the opposition, which is raised from the opposition; that this government has become the democratic mandate of this Parliament, even more so when this mandate emanates from an alien group to the majority who gave it the investiture, so it would be news. Actually, that would be the news. But you, Mr Parés, know this, as all opposition groups have known for a long time: the government sees the parliament, in which it has obtained a sufficient majority with the system support of those we call "anti-system", as an appendix to the own government, and the parliamentary groups that practically support it do not move without the view or even the whole concrete proposal of the government of the generality. We have complained a lot, at least from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, about the government's lack of respect for Parliament. We're seeing it these days. And we could come to the conviction that it's a bad generalization, if I don't have any more experience of what's going on these days and days ago in the General Courts, for example, with the guinea pig of the renewal of the constitutional organs, like now the Constitutional Court. Certainly, in this matter, Ciutadans, unlike the coalition of parties that is the commonwealth of us, we have not stood up to one-thousandth of our democratic conviction, unlike you who, one time, have climbed the government carpet, have pointed to the party without any modesty. But you know, we have our own combs, huh? "Velets are us; we, who have never abdicated our founding values, our liberal convictions. To those interested in many, we are the ones who have changed our minds continuously; even the four days ago they are looking at the misalignment of the Catalan policy from their sofa, with the command at hand, and that it seems that they have not yet landed in this Parliament, they have dared to say so in their parliament and in some means of communication. As far as I'm clear, Ciutadans has never lowered, nor lowered, nor will he ever lower the head of defense of the rights of Catalan citizens without any complex or dandruff. Oh, if Adam raise your head! What a country! All right, let's go back to the lençol. Look, Mr. Parés, you know, because I told you, we're gonna support a good part of your young man. And we will do so, even if we do not share the literality of a few points in the cent_per_cent in which you make a reference to the country, which for us of course has a very different meaning to what you surely give it. Mirin, as far as I'm clear: Catalonia is an autonomous community within a great country, in the political sense of the word, which is called Spanish. We are an autonomous community from one of the most important nations in the European Union, Europe and the world. And Catalonia, our autonomous community, has a state, a social and democratic state of right that all of us are part of, of which this Parliament is part and which is said to be a Spanish State. We – not now, always – are very clear about the difference between Spain and the Spanish State, as we are very clear about the importance of Catalonia in Spain and the full and democratic relevance of the institutions of the Generality, all of us – the Government and Parliament too – in the Spanish State. We are also aware that the parliamentary group proposing and other groups in this Parliament – of course the separatists declared, but not only – have a different view. In the case of the proposed group we know that they are comfortable with relativizing political and democratic concepts that are phonental. I suppose that's why we hear them talking, maybe more often than not, about "country referring to Catalonia." But, mirin, lords and lords of Podemos, the proposals they put forward to try to maintain the relation to the rural world and, finally, to fill the empty Catalonia are important enough to vote for them. The citizens of the rural world do not have to pay for the broken dishes of a lexical interpretation, which can always be submissive to discussion and which, from the political point of view, we have very different to their group and to other groups of this chamber, even in the realm, let us say, constitutionalist. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.159.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.160.0	Thank you very much, President. See, this guy seems like a little toast to the sun to us, 'cause he treats the fears a lot over, doesn't he? To speak, I believe, of necessary services in areas few villages, first must know these areas well few villages. We need to know what his density is and who his demographic characteristics are, don't we? It's not the same as a region with a more aged population, where you serve more attention to cures or to salvation, or areas with a younger population, where you serve more educated, light or idle, isn't it? The truth is that it doesn't get much in depth, that's to say, it makes a lot of proposals, so they're going into the air. And we won't vote against it, but it's not like we're abstaining, I warn you, at most points, because it doesn't seem like we've just gotten into how this problem can be solved, even though the proposals sound and seem interesting. Then there is a sequence of points in which they propose to improve working conditions. They talk about flexibility of hours, wage complements, but, of course, this has to be seen as articulating, because it is not so simple to do according to what differentiations with labor rights as well as that. Well, I don't know. They see it very easy, don't they? One doctor, seconds..., there collects more or collects less; staff of the Generality has more flexibility time. Why are they only from the Generality and not from other administrations? I don't know, I think we need to be a little more careful and more rigorous when we talk about these issues. Then, there are two points in which we will already vote against, which is the issue of public banking and the issue of giving up the Olympic Games. I mean, this came out here as a bulletin. I think they're taking advantage of and making a connection to a strange skin to enter two themes that they don't want to see with Catalonia a little populated, frankly, and that, well, I think it's very opportunistic, very political, very ideological to put this here, and that we're going to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.161.0	Thank you very much. So finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.162.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place, I wanted to thank the deputies and deputies of the groups that have presented and traded papers for their good predisposition, for the look of a genera that have brought the reviews of the PSC. Then, to put it in value too..., now the Member of Parliament told us that we didn't make it. Home, I think there are some very concrete measures and, in fact, some of which we are proud to be able to pull forward, even though we have not just heard that the PSC votes against them. Specifically, therefore, enable ICF as a commercial public bank to provide services that private banks are not able to provide in the rural world. Therefore, from the public sector, we believe that it is interesting to be able to cover, in this case with a public bank, a service that now the rural world itself in many municipalities is losing. Another piece of debate that's been going on, huh? , the figure of the territorial plan that we plant versus the rural agenda. We think that they are not incompatible, that is, the rural agenda, knows the council that we are perfectly in agreement, that it is a strategic, participatory plan. What we propose is that, together with this plan or derivative of this plan, there may be a territorial plan, that it is a rule of compulsory compliment, and that it allows the planning of government investments and, therefore, that it obliges all government departments. Congresswoman Feliu. Clearly, you're talking about Erasmus Scholarships at the University of Lleida. Miri, you know perfectly well, because we have explained to you, moreover, to your deputies, therefore, that the ministry has made an increase of thirty-three_per_cent of Erasmus scholarships – this is 40_million– and that the problem that has arisen at the University of Lleida with this thirty-three_per_cent to which you refer is the result of a mismanagement of the University of Lleida, not of the reduction in the resources of the ministry, which you know has not been there. As they also know that optical fiber will reach the Pont de Suert, which is working on the permit to make it possible. But in any case, it seems that you, as always, do everything right; others do everything wrong. What we put here on the table is that you wear years of rule and do well, but rural Catalonia continues to lose people. And, therefore, what we are asking for and what we are proposing are concrete proposals to give a solution to this reality that our country has. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.163.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. When the debate is over, I would say that the vote is going to produce a substantial amount of time on item 23 of the order of the day. [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Moreno?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.164.0	Thank you, President. Just to ask for the high-view reading of point 14 of this motion that we have just substantiated, before your vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.165.0	All right. Thank you very much. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks to speak.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.166.0	The vote separately from points 5 and 6, which may be taken jointly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.167.0	From the points, I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.168.0	Five and six.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.169.0	Five and six, all right. Perfect. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the functioning of the health system]] [[302-00054/13]] Let's get to the twenty-three point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the functioning of the health system; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mrs. Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.170.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, well, we'll be back. The case of severely ill children who have been derived from medical institutions in various European countries for the treatment of "protonterapia", when they could have been attended to hospitals in Madrid, served us to manifest a lack of mutual knowledge and coordination between the Catalan Health Administration, the health administrations of the rest of the autonomous communities and the Ministry of Health. It is not surprising that this is the case, since the leaders of the Department of Health have for many years practiced the harmful politics of the empty chair, absenting themselves at the meetings of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System. The result of the Catalan Health Administration was paid for by the Catalan children's families, who had to move a lot of kilometres from home and approach a wide tract of their environment, in a context that is unknown to them and of which they are often unaware of their language and which forces them to cope with high expenses. This situation is also indicative of the abandonment of the Catalan health system which the Generalitat de Catalunya has made in the last two years, which has left Catalan public health, both primary and specialized, in a post-reason state that has lengthened it from the place where it had always been. Who has seen you and who sees you. For all this, we have confessed this motion, for which we ask the Parliament of Catalonia to urge the Government of the Generality to: point 1, ensure the therapeutic solution of ‘protonterapia in Catalonia and give priority, if necessary according to clinical criteria, to referral to hospitals of other autonomous communities accredited with contrasted technical solvency, and that it will only go to referral to the foreigner as the last option. At this point, I have the honour to say that we have accepted a message from the Republican Left and from Juntas for Catalonia. Point number 2, in the case that the patient is to be derived to another autonomous community or to foreigner for a treatment that cannot be offered for any reason to Catalonia, the Department of Health will have to cover all the expenses of the patient and two family members, if it is the minor patient of age, and of a family member if it is the major patient of age. Here we've accepted a piece of VOX. Point 3, open a process in the framework of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System to find the best solution to share both the clinical history shared in Catalonia with the digital clinical history of Spain, as the use of a health card valid for all autonomous communities. Here we have accepted a statement from the Socialist Group. Point 4, publish the economic data of all health providers to the balance centre of the Català de Salut Service, for which it makes to the entrances from the public concertation and lend them to the web to advance the transparency and accessibility of the data by all citizens. That's not what anyone dared to do. Five, increase public health spending on the Generality's assumptions by 2022 to reach 5.6_percent of Catalan GDP, xifra equivalent to the average public health expenditure for all of Spain. No questions. And finally, we add a new fruit, the fruit of a common thought, which says: "To provide the Generality's premise by 2022 for the deployment of the law of oral salvation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what joy, so many thoughts of so many people. It's not every day, we've only missed the CUP. If things aren't twisting and whining – you already know that what doesn't happen in a year happens in an instant–, from here to a stone we should be witnessing an extraordinary effort by most groups represented in this chamber to recognize that a sequence of things that have been done badly could be better, and nothing else can be done to admit it and look to fix it. Since we've done, let's say, this variety of items, I don't want anyone to think that we've done it to the 'poti-poti' or the 'pito-pito-pito'. I'd like to explain a little, very briefly, the time I have left. Together with Esquerra, in fact, they had presented us with a series of papers. Most of us thought that they tended to equal the young man, or else, to take him out..., or else, to turn him into what he wasn't, but he seemed interesting to us the first and that's why we accepted him with all color and without renunciation. The two papers presented for the Socialist Group, the truth is that the first was very competitive with what you have presented. So, to simplify, we preferred to accept the second theme of the Socialist Group, which seems to us to be well-taught and to raise, therefore, the issue of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System in a more diplomatic way than it presented, for example, a transaction of VOX, which, well, even though it may seem to us to have more rock and roll and more feeling, so it seemed more difficult to accept it. To the commons: so the law of oral salvation, why not? As far as the object of the emena is concerned, he never sees ill. I, well, in the case of VOX, it seems to us that its core substantially improved ours. Your call. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.171.0	Then there is the word, to defend the proposed statements, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the deputy Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.172.0	Well, thank you very much, President. I'd like to make three points about the young lady, which we share. Yes, it is true that we will vote mostly in favour of all points. There's a point I'm already announcing that we're voting against it, because it's certainly a morning between you and us that's important, that we don't vote for texts from the extreme right. [[Some applause.]] In fact, it's what European Liberals do, that they don't deal with the extreme right. You are always demanding of the liberal culture, so you would also be well advised to take notes of what the Liberals, for example, do to the European Parliament, or of what the Liberals, for example, do to Germany, who never compromise anything with the extreme right. So, when someone claims some political traditions, it would be good if they were applied not only to those painful things, that we have many things that we do not share with European Liberals, but some things that do well, so it would be good if we did it here, too, wouldn't it? There's a matter of substance that you have to see and that we also agree. They talk about publishing the economic data of all providers – so, transparency with what you have to see with public concertation – and we can know them. I think this is good. But the counselor also knows, and you also know, that we also have different models. I think it's happening here too. It is true that public-private concertation, in this case of Catalan sanitation, has been going on for a long time. We believe that, moreover, unfortunately, it has gone up. It is to say, they have been produced, during the last years – not now, not with this advisor, but in previous stages –, processes of outsourcing of many types. You can talk about the maid service. We could talk, at the moment, about health transport, which is now also under discussion about this, and which has reproduced inefficiencies. Many times, inefficiencies in the services and many times, also inefficiencies in the contracting processes, which cost a lot to know if the Generalitat really, when doing these public-private concert processes, is actually paying what someone is playing or making a lot of rooms or a lot of money with what they represent..., which should be a public service. And that's why we think there are certain services that are part of what public sanitation should be better or it would be desirable for you to provide them directly, in this case, the Administration. And, therefore, our position on 061 and its internalisation, so our position on the internalisation of 112 or on health transport, which is also... There was a five-month gap in the conjunction of health transport in Catalonia, which claimed, among other things, salary equipping, but also, in this case, that it was a service provided directly by the Generality. The other thing is to increase healthcare spending. We agree. In fact, well, at the rate of 5.6_percent of our GDP, we will vote in favour. But if we took the data, we'd be talking about 13,000 and millions of euros. It is true that the execution of 2020, which was exceptional because there were covid funds..., but there were already 13.216_million euros. Therefore, I believe that if we really want to strengthen our public health..., gradually, obviously this will not be solved..., little by little and we need more resources and the advisor knows that we are also in this; but we need to go beyond, hypothetically, these €13,000_million. At the time, the councillor said that this year would be desirable for there to be around 12,000, but that this has to grow in the next few years, and theoretically the government has undertaken to increase – if I didn't miss – 5,000_million euros the assumption of Greeting. Let's see if that's it. And finally, thank you too, because we have made a statement because it is also important for us to expand the portfolio of public services. He knows that these days we're also talking about the performance of the public psyche service. But it is that, moreover, in reference to oral attention, we approved a law in this Parliament..., that I always want to set a record for our deputy, Marta Ribas, from Comú Podemos, who led this bill. And this bill of law is that, once approved, on the very assumption that it had to be approved, it predicted its deployment. And we haven't found it in the presupposition or not... as a matter of fact, we haven't found it singularized. And therefore, we believe that if we want to complete... then, no? It's always about the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. So we also claim this sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia to complete the laws it approves and, in this case, that a lot of people from the Catalonian assembly who can't afford the dentist or can't access the oral health care, that the Generalitat, just as the Barcelona Assembly is doing, still doesn't have the competence... that we can also do and, therefore, also be able to access the oral health care services. Again, many thanks for accepting the issue and, therefore, we would vote in favour of this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.173.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the words of Mrs Elena Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.174.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, our group shares a good part of this young man's motivation. Being cognizant of a burden on a city always gives us an opportunity to work to solve the mechanisms to correct it. Now, just one point: we must never confuse opportunity with opportunity; on occasion, we separate them a line much sooner. And even less so when we talk about the salvation of infants and the patience that it entails for their families. But, even if this young man has a bit of every one of us, for our part, we will not have to take advantage of the opportunity to improve the relationship of the citizens with the health system and the defense of their rights. In this sense, as we exposed to the presentation of the assumptions, it seems appropriate and necessary to ask for an increase of resources in Salut. Is it necessary to increase expenditure to a more adequate percentage of GDP? Yeah. Yeah, and here they'll always find our group. In fact, the Socialist Group has approved in this plenary motions calling for health expenditure to go up to the seven per cent of gross domestic product, being aware of infra-financing, but also of the government's responsibility at the time of setting its priorities. In this presupposition project, Salut represents twenty-i-nou_per_cent of the total presupposition; a moving presupposition bona, yes, we recognize it. But when we're still so far away from the so-called twenty-five percent of primary care, it's an objective to say it's insufficient. Therefore, yes, we will vote in favour of this new point five, we claim a better one in the presupposition of Greeting. We will also vote in favour of the fourth point, in favour of greater transparency, because we consider it essential to give knowledge about what and how we spend it. It is a question of responsibility and respect for the citizenry. And, before I refer to the next points of the motion, where our group has submitted papers, I would like to make two very brief assessments. The first, the health system is decentralized, and we don't question that. And the second, one of the many lessons that the pandemic is leaving us is that of shared work, shared decisions between autonomous communities, the State and also Europe. The role of the interterritorial council has been that of a model of success. And here I'm rubbing it all over the house: it's a model of federal management success. Now, we consider it necessary to improve the transmittance of data between autonomous communities. At the time we live, vital displacements of citizens between territories is a constant day, whether by work or oci motion, the clinical history of patients must be available to the faculty of all autonomous communities. In this sense, we have proposed to put together points 3 and 4, because it is the appropriate interterritorial council that establishes the best in order to make it possible, as well as the health card is valid from the territory. And we thank the Ciutadans Group for having accepted our statement. And finally, on the first point, even though our task has not been accepted, and we think that it could perfectly have been done with the task proposed by the parties supporting the Government, we are celebrating that it is possible to include in this motion the guarantee of the therapeutic solution of "protonterapia in Catalonia", which the adviser has also acquired from the committee of assumptions, I understand that if the treatment is possible to do to the territory it will always be better for the family and also for the patient. But now, in the situation in which we find ourselves, we consider that priority must be given to the clinical criteria, the knowledge of what is best and where is best, because, we do not forget, our fi must always be old enough to live up to the best possible conditions. Therefore, when we hear two considerations: clinical criteria and the greater benefit of patients as a basis for making any decision, it does not happen that at the time of making any decision we embolically look at the color of one flag or another and at the end we lose sight of the important thing, that there is a sick person who wants to attend and, in these cases, infants. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.175.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.176.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Argimon, it seems inconceivable that sectarianism places above the well-being of people on a scale of values of someone intellectually healthy..., even more so if that sectarianism affects a sick child, a child who is suffering, and even more so if the ones who exercise it are the health counselors. Children and young people displaced to Switzerland and Germany, with an economic burden impossible to assume for many families and an added, immoral emotional burden, which is based only on the hatred that the Government has been professing to Spain and the possibility that the central government will run with the expenses to be able to send that capital, saved at the expense of the health of the sick Catalan children, to Waterloo or send it to some TV3 program dedicated to facing our society. On 30 November 2020 an agreement was made public in the Commission for Benefits, Insurance and Financing on various considerations concerning proton therapy technique, which included the recommendation to establish an interdisciplinary commission in each autonomous community, general guidelines and criteria, therapeutic indications and follow-up commitment, according to the Minister of Health. Since that date, we have found that all the autonomous communities have sent patients who needed this treatment to Madrid. Interestingly, Catalonia is the only autonomous community in all of Spain that continues to drift abroad. In 2020, according to the Columbus Foundation, eight children came from Catalonia to Germany or Switzerland. In what we have been doing since 2021 have already been derived ten, and two are pending to be derived from the Vall d'Hebron Hospital in the coming weeks, if they are accepted in the centers of Switzerland. The children who did not pass through the foundation are added, having knowledge of two others only this year. Fourteen children, with their families, derived to Switzerland on the whim of the Generalitat. The abandonment of functions that the Health Council has been carrying out in recent years is above all logic and measure, and deepens morally reprehensible. The responsibility of the Department of Health is to ensure access to health benefits for all Catalans without exception, always taking into account what is best for the patient and what is most comfortable. Unfortunately, of course, we have to hear in committees how the voices of Junts and Esquerra raise the flag of rural Catalonia and the need to bring health services closer to the most remote areas, in order for all citizens to have access to them without the need to move. That's funny, isn't it? And they decide to send a sick child thousands of kilometers, with expenses of travel, stays, maintenance, interpreters, away from their homes, their customs, their family, for purely ideological reasons, adding to their lives and to those of their parents more uncertainty and despair, in exchange for a few euros that will get into the hut of separatism, since this treatment will be taken over by the Government of Spain. Mr Argimon, who has to give the order to the Vall d'Hebron Hospital for these children to be derived from the centers of Madrid arranged by social security? You are the most responsible in Catalonia. And no, don't tell us that this is the decision of the pediatric oncologist, because any professional who has exercised in Catalonia knows that the centers of derivation are not only limited, but rather well determined, and that not content with this are all coded, which means that they are neither random nor professional choice. What do you expect to help these families? Will we have to talk about this again in January, because finally those two children who are due to drift in the coming weeks will be drawn to Switzerland instead of Madrid? In that case we will be here, Mr Argimon, to request your resignation, yours and the reprobation of the former Councillor Vergés. Of course we will vote in favour of this motion. And tell the group that has called us from the far right – to see if it is able to turn on the lights, which carries them off throughout the legislature – that we will vote in favour of any proposal that improves the lives of Catalans. We lack the sectarianism that characterizes you. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]] Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.177.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word MP Pep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.178.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... In front of this young man we had two options: either we looked at him from a more political point of view, putting a more partisan accent, as he proposed, or we looked at him from a more medical point of view, more public service, more attentive to the content, which was what Counsellor Argimon did in the inquiry. We chose to see more of the scope of public service, to follow the line that the counselor marked, because we thought it worth dealing with and approving a motion on a matter as little known as protonterapia, indicated in pediatric oncology and, in very specific cases, in adults. It was in this sense that we presented a series of papers, with the intention of improving the text from the expert in the Health Department on this issue and its application. In the end, they only accepted our goal in point 1, but in the rest of the movement it seems they have played to satisfy everyone – a little for each one. They preferred that before they came close to reality. Therefore, we will not support the points where our exams have not been accepted, and obviously not VOX's. On the content, as the Councillor said, it has been many years since Catalonia's "protontherapy" has been applied, and the patients have been drawn to the centers where these treatments can be done, mainly to foreigners, with Germany and France in the front, which is where there has been more expertise for many years. And for fifteen years they have also done other health systems of the State; in fact, Catalonia was the pioneer to do so. And it is true that 2020 "protonterapia enters the portfolio of state services, and it does so in parallel with the opening of two centers located in Madrid, where, indeed, it is already become patients, also, from Catalonia. That's the reality. And it is important that you know – and the counselor said – that Catalonia will have, hopefully soon, two of these devices, which will settle in the Pere Virgili Sanitari Park. And the project is already working on the functional plan, the material plan, and even the organizational model. And, as it has to do with the mobility of patients in the State, which is dealt with in other points, also some data from patient referrals for outpatient or hospital ingress treatments. From Catalonia, the year 2020 resulted in 193 patients, among them 46 in the Community of Madrid, 32 in the Valencia Country and 27 in Andalusia. And, in contrast, during the same 2020, 6,515 patients from other autonomous communities were treated in the centers of the Siscat – 193 and 6,515. And all this derivation and assistance process is registered with the Sifco, which is the state cohesion fund system that regulates it. Because I keep in mind when they talk about abandoning the Catalan health system. [[Some applause.]] For what it does to the services to the malalts and their relatives, in the case of these derivatives the Health Assistance Commission for International Conventions and Exceptional Benefits values each case. And so, from CatSalut, help is provided for the state diets and maintenance of the citizens and relatives who have had to travel for treatment. Data: year 2019, 464 requests, involving an expenditure of 302,301_euro; year 2020, 323 requests, an expenditure of 267,648_euro. And here you have..., reduced mobility caused by restrictions on the covid. For what it does to clinical history and territorial mobility, both at state and European level it is a obvious need that is technologically improving because it is possible to access data from the history of patients, but that, at the same time, they preserve their rights to security and confidentiality of the information available. That's very important. In relation to the new point 4, just tell him that the figures of the concertation of the CatSalut with the centers, apart from the Central Balance Sheet, are also available in the Register of agreements and contracts. I, over the last few points, the presupposition of 2022 already has a game for bucodental salutation. I, about the presupposition, fem numbers. The EUR 11.244 million represents a 4.9_percent of GDP. If we add the 1,600_millions of funds that were approved at the Congress today at the Junts Summit, we will be at the 5,6_per_cent they ask for. So don't block this game and we'll have it. [[Some applause.]] And we all know it's never gonna be enough, but when we follow an independent state, we can still get to more. In the demand for full political and fiscal sovereignty there are all welcome people. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.179.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Ángeles Llive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.180.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. The reason we're dealing with is about the functioning of the health system. Obviously, the coronavirus pandemic strained its functioning, but it knew it was on the rise. At this point, I take advantage of my first intervention from the Faristol on health to recognize and aggravate all the great work done for Constellera Alba Vergés and all the professionals of the health field, who were at a bit of the dog at such a complicated time. Of course, the public health system in Catalonia suffered some serious consequences from the pandemic, and it needs more resources. More resources than will be obtained if the assumptions for 2022 are approved, of which one_of_each_three euros of extra presupposition was directed only to salutation. I would like to point out that only one of the five submissions has been accepted. In concrete terms, in the first point we put in store that Catalonia is already on the go to be able to dispose of proton therapy at the Pere Virgili Sanitary Park, an innovative technique of diagnosis and pediatric oncological treatment. Therefore, this point will be voted in favour. You speak alarmingly of the displacements that some families and their children have to make with severe maladies, and the Department of Health, if there are no more necessary ones, you already realize these deviations. This past year 2020 has produced only seventy-one deviations, deviations that are covered by the regulated services for Law 16, 2003, through the Sifco, which authorizes requests for assistance between autonomous communities. Everything we're doing to them is protocoled. If there is no other option than to refer one person to another Member State of the European Union to be treated, know that all cases of proton therapy are approved, with the help of travel and stay correspondents. Where we don't agree is in the uniform of health cards – uniformity, a concept you always preach about, today with health cards, other days with other things. We bet on the diversity of health systems, and what it is that all operations are carried out in the territories, the same way that the clinical information of patients is shared with the digital clinical history of the Ministry's National Health System, which makes it easier for people who are located in another territory and outside the residential environment to have access to the required healthcare. We'll abstain on the fifth point. You have the best guarantee to increase spending on sanitation is to approve the assumptions of the Generality. If they wanted to go further, we would have to take care of what the Vergés Counsellor proposed to us in her day: an alliance to force the State to reverse health infra-financing. The Generalitat does its dues; that is to require the State to do so, too. We shall vote in favour of new paragraph 6, on the provision for the deployment of the oral health law. The presupposition presented for the department already envisages a 10_million-euro game to start its deployment. So, we're moving in this direction. The rest of the points we would vote against, for the anti-feixist agreement of point 2, because instead of seeking better mechanisms to access the health system, they remain in patriotic uniformity, as always. In short, it is clear that citizenship needs public investment, as we say, to have innovative therapies or more accurate molecular diagnostics for oncology that are accessible to everyone. We, like public servants, need to age because this is so, putting on the table a comprehensive and universal system of salvation centered on people, with special attention to the most vulnerable collectivities, and that it is for the rights and rights of patients. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.181.0	Thank you very much. I, after the defense of the papers presented, then has the word, to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.182.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, a general observation of the motion: it is a motion that effectively addresses the debate of the health system, the waiting lists and the need to guarantee universal access to it, but it is obvious that the spring of the bone of the problem is in the construction of the Catalan health system. Catalonia's health order law passed in 1990 for Parliament represented the creation of a new public-private mixed model to manage the public health system. From then on, Manes Convergence, the tripartite or alliance of Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia, the case is that the system has evolved to a greater presence of private interests in public health. And the results we know all of them: eternal waiting lists, competition between public health centres, detailed services and professional rights, overload of workers... Some of these elements we have seen clearly in the management of the pandemic, with the harmful impacts that this model of management has had on the health system when they have come wrong. There has also been a lack of coordination, limitations and excuses, because the case is that in the current autonomous framework there is no room to transform this system: the state's infra-financing with the complicity of the Generality, the consent of the "socio-vergency to protect private interests within the health care system, the legal limitations impossible of the State – which makes impossible the creation of a single universal health system and fairness for all users and workers, and which, therefore, continues to hold ownership, provided and managed one hundred_per_cent public... The only way out, therefore, is a process of independence that I allow us to build, without mortgages or private interests, a new model of public health system. So that's why we can't give support to most of these points, because autonomy doesn't even allow us to just put pieces into the system. Still, we will give support to a couple of points that we consider should already be applied. For one band, point 4, on the transparency of the health system of the Català de la Salut Service, which has always been lacking, and therefore we agree that data should be at the forefront of everything to ensure that the necessary tax burden is not converted into a chimera. And, for another band, point 6, on oral health, which is, indeed, one of the many shortcomings of the Catalan health system, and, in fact, does not guarantee universal access to this service has impacts in many other areas of our health. Moreover, with the non-deployment of the law of oral health it is again seen as the mass, already, the Parliament approves laws, motions and resolutions that do respond to the needs of the popular classes, and that the governments systematically ignore them, ensuring that nothing changes and that there is no transformation that goes to the issue and serves to advance in the guarantee of rights for all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.183.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.184.0	Thank you, President. Simply, to carry a lot of telegraphically that we will support a young man who, at the end of the day and in the end, is three ideas that we share. First, measures to rationalize spending, to support families... Not just with the initial text, but with the papers, which we share, and which have to do with proximity, with an obvious fact, and it is that, when you have a sick family member, you can go to a place where you share language and not just distance, but all emotional links... things are easier. Also a basic idea, which unfortunately I see has not been eradicated with the explanations that have been made here, which is to sweep away ideological prejudices with the salvation of people. There are people who see that they still prefer their ideology to the salvation of people – arguments that are absolutely ridiculous. And the only thing we would say is that we would abstain from point 4, which is to publish economic data, because I think it should be written better. And it should be written better, and we will abstain, because we believe that as it is written, it leaves the door open to unfair competition; it is to say, to know facts that can then be used, therefore, because certain operators that we already know perfectly all and that, moreover, are associated with left-wing parties – it must be said – end up serving this issue. It's not like I'm saying who did this to this idea, but it does leave the door open. Therefore, we will give support to the whole movement except for point 4, which we will abstain from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.185.0	Thank you very much. So now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.186.0	Thank you, President. Members... First of all, Mr Alejandro Fernández... Sorry, I had forgotten about you before; when I mentioned the groups that had not amended, I had forgotten about PP. Sorry, it was a lapsus. Since we've seen little of each other lately, I'm moving my forgetfulness and thank you for voting, whatever you can. To make it up, I'll forget about the CUP, and I'll just say that... thank you for voting what you can, and that's it. Okay. A deputy from one of the majority groups – I won't say who – called me a couple of days ago to announce his remarks to this young man – that we appreciate it – and announced them to me with a few words that, well, I have pointed them out here. Mirin. He said: "Good morning, Anna – the Anna soc jo – ; "respect the motion of the "protonterapia", and wanted to ask you to accept our papers. In general, together with the department, we wanted to prioritize the medical reading of the motion more than politics. If we prioritize this, it would hardly prove, because the UPC would also add to dropping it. "That's why we prefer to be able to approve the motion with as much consent as possible. To help you there, since you have taken the initiative to present this important and little-known issue, we have made some very constructive and appropriate points to the reality of what is already being done by the Health Department in relation to the "protonterapia", which is basically already in line with what you are proposing: bringing patients as close as possible, and at the moment they are the two centres in Madrid. He is also working to be able to pay attention to "protonterapia" in Catalonia. Our reviews do not mislead the writing of your points, and, moreover, they are consumable for other groups. Well, what do you see? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.187.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.188.0	So, mirin... how do I see that? That's good, then, if it's good for everyone's exams, and if it's put the public service out of sectarianism. We, Citizens, compare when we believe we have to confront and pact when we believe we have to compromise. We do not, of course, accept lessons of liberalism of the commons or of the opportunism of the socialists or of the onanism of Junts and Esquerra. In fact, if we didn't accept statements from the extreme right, we wouldn't accept any of you. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.189.0	Yes, Mr. Riera. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.190.0	Yes, by direct allusions. Because he didn't mean my name, but the message, obviously, was mine. I don't know if you can read private messages between Members here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.191.0	It was his responsibility to defend the documents, such as... after the intervention of parliamentary groups, and not, in any case, to read private messages, effectively. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, Mrs. Grau? Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.192.0	No, no, just a moment. The first is the first. I'd like to ask that, when we vote on point 2 of this young man... please, if you can read, point 2, before we vote on it. And, respect the comment you just made here, I didn't quote anyone by name. Now, who feels relieved...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.193.0	No, Mrs. Grau. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, we're not getting into this. It's here. Leave him here. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into planned policies to address the consequences of climate change and the energy crisis (continuation)]] [[302-00053/13]] After this debate and the rest of the debates on the previous motions, we will proceed to the vote on points 21 to 23 of the order of the day, which correspond to the motions of substance this late. We begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the policies planned to address the consequences of climate change and the energy crisis. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 118 votes in favour, 11 votes against, 2 abstentions and one person who does not vote. We will now vote on points 2, 3, 4 and 4 bis. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 119 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5 was not approved, with 16 votes in favour, 84 votes against and 32 abstentions. We're voting points 7, 8 and 10 now. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 16 votes in favour and 116 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6 was not approved, with 16 votes in favour, 83 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9 was not approved, with 16 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11 has not been approved, with 15 votes in favour, 116 votes against and one person who does not vote. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved, with 121 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. Point 13_has been approved, with 81 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 32 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number 14. The vote begins. Point 14_has received 18 votes in favour, 12 against and 102 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into access to services in Catalonia (cont'd)]] [[302-00055/13]] Let's move on to the vote on motion 22, following the question to the Government about access to the service in Catalonia. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 47 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved, with 81 votes in favour and 51 votes against. We now vote on points 3, 9 and 9 bis. The vote begins. This point received 54 votes in favour, 12 against and 66 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. This point has not been approved, with 54 votes in favour, 75 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. This point received 47 votes in favour, 76 against and 9 abstentions. We will now proceed to the reading..., ask the fourth secretary to do the reading of the number 14 point, before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.194.0	« To reject the candidacy of the Olympic Winter Games in the Pyrenees, since it supposes to deepen in the tourist monoculture and labor precariousness, and because of its inviability in a climate change context.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.195.0	The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 16 votes in favour, 114 votes against and one abstention. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 119 votes in favour, no votes against, 12 abstentions and one person who did not vote. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the functioning of the health system (continuation)]] [[302-00054/13]] Let's move on to the motion following the government's inquiry into the functioning of the health system, number 23. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 124 votes in favour and 8 votes against. Ask the secretary first to read point number two before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.196.0	"In the event that the patient is to be derived to another autonomous community or foreigner for treatment which cannot be offered for any reason to Catalonia, the Health Department will have to cover all the expenses of the patient and the family members in the event of being, the patient, minor of age, and a family member in the event of being, the patient, major of age.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.197.0	The vote begins. This point has not been approved, with 19 votes in favour and 113 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 51 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 7 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has received 65 votes in favour and 66 abstentions– no votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has received 58 votes in favour and 74 abstentions– no votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 132 votes in favour. [[Asking the Government about housing policies]] [[300-00067/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on housing policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs Susanna Segovia. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.198.0	We'll stay at the intimidating... [[The joker laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.199.0	Please ask the MPs to abandon the hemicicle they are doing with speed and silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.200.0	Thank you, President. So now, with a little more intimacy, let's finish the plenary with these questions. Counselor, we have already made an inquiry on the issue of housing in June. We couldn't do it with you because it was at that time that the government still didn't know what to do with housing policies. Vice President Puignero answered us. After the housing moved to the Social Rights Council, but the Incasòl stayed in Territori... He will understand that this also makes it a little difficult to understand what is the coherence and consistency of the Generality's housing policies. Various questions have already been asked, indeed, as much of us as of other groups. For a long time now we have seen the context of which is the housing emergence that Catalonia is experiencing; therefore, I don't think I can get in again. And we have also talked a lot about the inaction, we consider, of the Government of Catalonia at the time of exercising its skills in housing and guaranteeing the right to housing in Catalonia. In July we also presented a motion to the Parliament where it was put to vote to allocate a minimum of 1,000_million to the 2022 premise for housing policies, giving follow-up to the agreement signed for the Republican Left and the CUP for the investiture. We also voted for the general policy debate. Parliament approved it on two occasions. But we have seen that in the end – now we already have the assumptions of 2022 – neither the agreement with the CUP nor the one voted by Parliament, but we understand – the Esquerra agreement with Juntes per Catalunya, which spoke of reaching 1,000_million in the end of the legislature. We're doing a lot of work, we're coming too late and we're still short. So, we're getting short because, besides, the assumption that it's on the table right now only assumes 1.5_per_cent of the generality's total assumption. And this is still far beyond what the report of the Labour Council, Economic and Social of Catalonia, says in its report on the right to housing, recommendations of more than this year, that in order to get well it would have to arrive at u per cent of GDP ; therefore, to 2,200_million euros. We're not far away yet. It's a report made by technicians, made by experts. It seems that Juntes per Catalunya only likes reports and experts when they say what they want to hear; when they say what they don't want to hear, they don't do the same. There are 410_million increases to the housing budget, which you say: "Wow, no? , we almost double the housing assumption. But, of course, let's go see the small letter, or the small numbers, in this case. All resources come from European foundations. And of these 410, 387_millions are for rehabilitation– European foundations–, and 80_millions, plus, are also European foundations for construction. I mean, if we make the sum of the funds that come from the European funds, that are 467_millions, and if we make it with the 410 that increases the housing assumption, what we find is that the Generalitaty is laying down less money now, of propitious resources, than 2020. That is to say, it doesn't just create the premise with the resources that the Generality puts in it – it's a sum and a rest, easy – but, more than anything else, it's low. Moreover, with continuous policies, transformative people, who have not just assumed the responsibility of the Generality to guarantee a public housing park in Catalonia that is at the level of the European Union, which is still very far from what the Law says 18/2007, from the right to housing, which speaks that all the municipalities of five thousand inhabitants and of the capitals of the region must have at least fifteen per cent of housing destined for social policies. So, we're not very far away. And on the assumption that they presented us and that we already had the opportunity to talk to the Social Rights Commission last week... so, as we say, the numbers don't please us. They don't like us, because 387 million for rehabilitation... without any conditioning. So, we don't know where they're going to stop, these million rehabilitations. We don't know if this will help because, for example, Blackstone rehabilitates the buildings it has bought from Raval or some city centers that are in trouble because it is later converted into luxury floors, and so they can sell them to the triple or quadruple of the price they have bought. The Catalan housing agency only increases by 1,300 floors, far from the five thousand that were already in the investment agreements. The habitats that they understand by chance and retract – and they also talked about it –... 2020 planned to buy 700 of them, they stayed in 376, and now they only expect to buy 450 of them, which is absolutely meaningless, to give response to the situation of habitat emergence. There is a curious concept, which is the number of habitats produced for Incasòl; "products do not know exactly what it means – if it means completed, if it means that they are being made at these times – but, in the end, they are only 690 by 2022. Or the number of habitats directly initiated by the Generalitat, which we believe is the public construction initiative of the Government of the Generalitat, which is 166 by 2022. And they're the gaffs of the housing program's memorization of the assumptions that we're currently dealing with and debating, and that's going to vote for the next day..., the reviews to the full. The payment aids to the logger boost a mike, in 4,500 units of cohabitation – it's not a single eight_per_cent. Therefore, counsel, they are assumptions that are not ambitious, that do not transform the housing model and that do not respond to the housing emergence situation. And that was one of the big issues that we want to discuss today, that you tell us if you really think that with these assumptions it's enough, if the Generality is making enough effort... I know that I'm going out with everything that the Government of the State should do and that it doesn't do, and that there's no money, and that they give us money, but in the end, I'm asking what the Generality of Catalonia can do, and what's little. But it is that, related to the assumptions, we also have, by the way, the initial approval, another time, of the sectoral territorial plan of the habitat. A plan that should have been in 2009 – that we are very late –, that we already had an approval in 2019 that passed two months frozen – the web page was updated on March 2019, I think it was –, and now we have another plan that is in the initial approval process. A plan that is fundamental, because it has to establish who are the needy and the habitat deficiencies of Catalonia, such as the planning of policies, which is the percentage of sheltered housing, the reserves that are needed to be made, which are the concrete areas for many and retraction, the measures against empty housing, the infra-habitat... That is to say, it is the main planning tool that the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia has, which is up to twelve years late and which, moreover, goes up without a presupposition – not to say, of the money. And, in fact, we saw at the media that when they asked the Social Rights Council to bring in the money to make all the housing that they said they had to make the territorial plan of the housing sector, the answer was: "We have no idea. I mean, we know we have to make public housing, but we don't know how we're going to do it or when we're going to do it. But it's that, besides, the plan that does is to lower the original object that we had, that was to reach the fifteen percent of social housing—that's what the law marks—by 2030..., so now we're not going to 2042. With what we've already assumed these twelve years of delay that carries the plan..., so we've already moved it to twelve years longer than we'll actually have to give a little sense and meaning to make this tool useful. And this tool will only be useful if you have a presupposition, if you really have a compromise that goes beyond putting black on white things. Let us not say that it is not important and that twelve years ago it should have been done, but it is that, moreover, what shows the plan..., that, for example, it continues to bet for the construction of official sales protection habitat, when we are already years old and years old to invest public resources in official sales protection habitat that has not been used for nothing, because it is a habitat that has finally passed to the market, and therefore no longer forms part of the public housing bag or the protected housing bag, but it is still insisting on the official sales protection habitat. We believe that the territorial plan, advised, is necessary, is urgent, but we do not understand it without having a presuppositional planning that goes from the hand of this plan. And one aspect, already more concrete, that I wanted to take advantage of to comment on now, to end the inquiry..., is about Reallotgem, isn't it? , which is one of the star projects that his department announced in order to avoid denunciations, which basically consists – and you explained it enough and surely now you can give more details – to reach agreement with the owners of the habitats so as not to name the families to change a social logger. But, after months of implementation, what we do see is that, for one band, the resources allocated to them were not enough – there were 20_million euros, which is not much – but, more than that, we wanted to ask if you think you have given the expected results, making an assessment as honest as possible. I mean, do you think he gave the results...? Because maybe, if you haven't given the results, we need to rethink it, and we need to think about how we do it. Who were the targets? To stop denunciations, to keep the family in the same habitat and to reduce the increase of cases pending resolution to the months of emergence, avoiding the arrival of more. We believe that it was an initiative that was not consulted very much, that at some point it was thought that it was a good initiative and it was set in motion. I recognize them that we valued her positively, when she announced it. We were going to believe that resources were finally allocated to a measure that could work, but it did not just work. In Barcelona, as in the least, the eighty-three_percent of the families who were in a denunciation did not stay out; of the four hundred denunciations that the anti-denunciation unit has put up, they only said they could channel themselves. And the data from Catalonia aren't much better either. The data that you have given yourself are that the thirteen per cent of the total of the denunciations have been able to access to join this program. Therefore, we believe that the conditions must be changed. And one of the things we wanted to put in place for him... for example, investing more in prevention and mediation, and intervening before the denunciation process started – so, when the first payments start; this could help the small owners –; taking out the obligation to have a denunciation in thirty days, which is one of the conditions that they pose; that families who have taken over the denunciation moratoria can stick together. And now... in the next intervention we could detail a little more, but we'd like to know your honest appreciation of this program. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.201.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's the word Social Rights Advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.202.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this question. In fact, a few days ago we did here in Parliament, so, at the committee, also the explanation of who these assumptions were supposed to be. And I think we've explained to quite a few who were the priorities of the Government of the Generality in terms of housing. First of all, you were talking to me about whether you thought these money was enough. I will not talk to him about the lack of funding that we have in the Generalitat of Catalonia, because I believe that..., even though I am convinced that you also share it, and it is known that the Generalitat of Catalonia really lacks money, and that it lacks money to be able to execute, precisely, those things of which it has competence, that it is, precisely, to fight for people who are most difficult and less disadvantaged. Therefore, if you ask me: "Do you think that the premise in housing is enough? I'll say no, as I also think that the assumption that we have in the field of social rights is insufficient, as I think it is insufficient the assumption that we have in the field of teaching, and as I think it is generally insufficient the assumption that we have in the Generality of Catalonia. It is insufficient because we lack money and because we have a deficit of 20,000_million euros. And that's what makes us unable to make the policies that we would like. Every time you talk about housing... and, in fact, I share it, and we all share it, Catalonia has a housing deficit dedicated to the logger, and dedicated to the social logger. This is a date that's so, it's real and we share it, and I won't be the one to discuss it. What happens is that at these moments that we are... You said: "Don't talk about housing emergence. So I'm not going to talk about the housing emergency. Among other things, because the assumption that until now had the Catalan agency of housing..., was already more than sixty_per_cent of its assumption, precisely in this housing emergence, giving money to help the logger. And from this it seems that you never talk about it, that, in the band of housing construction, we need to give money to help the lodger. And at these times we spend up to 114_million euros on the budget, 14_million euros more than we spent on the previous assumptions. They seem to tell us every time we don't do anything about housing. Just remind him of some data. By the year 2020, more than 55,000 units of living units have been refused aid to pay for logging. The number of people we've paid to help with logging and mortgages to avoid misdemeanours has been more than 1,350 people. The number of emergency aid to local authorities to finance housing funds for social policies has also been more than 1,330 people. Therefore, we also dedicate money, precisely, to avoiding these denunciations, feel aware, as everyone knows. And that's why the state made the moratoria, which expanded them. And you were talking about denunciations, and I would also like to know how it is possible that there will continue to be denunciations, bearing in mind that we have these moratoria that should avoid these denunciations. But housing policies also want to expand them and make them with other collections; for example, to avoid depopulation in rural areas; for example, also the promotion of housing by power..., youth emancipation or because large people can be in another type of housing. You criticise that... surprisingly, there has been enough criticism of the generality's assumptions because there is a very important injection of European funds, but this money is supposed to touch us. It is as if you can say that we will allocate a very important part of money precisely dedicated to building and rehabilitating housing. So look, the 160_million euros, in two annuities, that we would dedicate to the construction of housing, we would dedicate them to the construction of housing dedicated to social logger in public only. And this is what is foreseen in the assumptions of the Generality this year; to the assumptions of this year, therefore, the corresponding 80_million euros. Other habitating policies? So the money we're going to spend on rehabilitation. We all know that there are habitats in Catalonia... You speak of the great habitats, but we also have habitats in a few conditions not very good, built in a few determined times. And what we're going to do will be housing calls... calls because the cities can either rehabilitate or rehabilitate buildings and also rehabilitate barrels. And soon the call will be published because the citizens of Catalonia can present in these rehabilitations. I was also talking about the Reallotgem program. I'm really happy with the Reallotgem program. And I'm not really happy, I mean, it's not either... or a kind of facsimile. What could it be, the dice, better? So I don't know. I mean, the program was introduced in July, and I'm not giving it the data from September until November. At these times, there are 36 members of the great tenors in only two months. 328 counts of the 570 scheduled for September have been avoided, and 78 cases with already signed accession have been avoided. Therefore, since September, 78 cases are already solved for the Reallotgem program. What are we sure to advertise more? So yes. And we start a campaign, precisely, of advertising to encourage the citizens to make available, too, the empty floors to be able to dedicate them to social logue. We all know there's a lack of habitat. And we only have two ways to have more housing: the construction – which is obviously not immediate – and the purchase of housing through the mechanisms we have, through the tanteig and retraction mechanism, which is what the Government of the Generality is doing and what it has done. Just a few dice. Since the year 2015, the Generalitat has bought 3,287 habitats; it has spent up to 175_million euros to be able to buy these habitats. Housing construction? Barcelona has built habitats, built nine hundred habitats in this last period, but they also built habitats from 2011 to 2015, where Barcelona built a thousand habitats. And why did I talk about the Barcelona Assembly example? Because the construction of habitats..., it is not only of the Government of Catalonia; the competence is also municipal – the competence of the construction of habitats. Therefore, I believe that what we have to do is, the different administrations, work hand in hand to build these habitats. And we've already made ourselves available for gatherings because they're looking only for public housing. Among other things, because the program for the construction of habitats that allow us European foundations..., must be in public only. Therefore, we will need this public only of the different joints. He didn't tell me about the Emergence Table. I'd really like to give some data on the emergency cells. The Generalitat... When talking about the housing problem and the problem of help to the loguer... The Generalitat de Catalunya, at these times, has its emergencies up to nine hundred targeted people. But not only the Generality of Catalonia; the Assembly of Barcelona has 645, and the rest of the assemblies – that even to give different tables of emergence we have, to all of Catalonia – some new ones more. Therefore, at these times, unfortunately, we have 1,800 pending cases of the emergencies. How will we solve it, the band we've been talking about building or buying through tanteig and retraction? So, through these European foundations, the will is to be able to build three thousand habitats with each of the two annualities; therefore, six thousand habitats. That's probably not enough? No, I'm sure it's not... sure, it's not enough. So, what we're asking is that – and it's not a mantra either –..., what we're asking is that the housing plan that the State was providing to the Government of Catalonia, of 120_million euros, and that now at these times is 50_million euros..., so help us – through..., since they're partners, well, they're part of the Government of the State – so that these help back to their initial point. Therefore, we are happy with the premise. It's obvious that all assumptions could be better, especially if we have, so, all the resources that we're looking for or if we have a good state – also let me be 'hodden' – so we could also decide ourselves. But in any case, we'll work on the line we've been doing until now. And satisfied with the assumption we've put forward. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.203.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. It has the word now, in the turn of reply, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. It's been good for me that the minutes he's had left to use me, because he won't give me time... because in the end it seemed like you were asking me instead of the other way around. I'll explain. The topic of help to the loguer..., it is certain that it is the sixty per cent of what they are destined for. He told us... he talked about 114 million. For all we know, there's not a hundred planned for the next year. So they're already diminishing this game. On the issue of priorities and tickets, that tickets are insufficient... there are ways of making, too, and generating more tickets. We can talk about tax reform, which, for what we have in mind, does not want to talk about these new fiscal reform assumptions in order to get more tickets. You can reform the empty floor tax and include the physical people, too, great owners in the empty floor tax. They can also talk to us about how we can get more habitat, because you have only talked about two ways, and there are no other ways, of getting habitat. Because, for example, there is a whole series of measures planned for the 24/2015, mobilization of empty floors, which also pass through sanctions to those that have empty floors. We don't know how many people the Generalitat has put up – we'd say no – all this time. And there has also been even the possibility to initiate expropriators to those who continue to have empty habitats. Therefore, there are many more ways, in the band to put resources for the purchase and for the construction, to get more habitat. On the issue of rehabilitation, it's not that I criticize him for having resources. Obviously, it's good to have resources. We believe that, in addition, the Government of the State has done a good job of obtaining these external resources from the European Union. What we criticise is that I am only increasing it with the resources that come from outside, that there is no increase per part to make housing policies. And that, besides, you help the rehabilitation that you were talking about is not conditioned to the social good and the social function of housing. Because it's not that we're talking about big habitats, no; we're talking about big habitations, which is like..., a little different. What can there be communities of veins and people that need this rehabilitation aid with energy efficiency? It's one of the work lines of our green barrel law. Therefore, it is not that we are against it, absolutely. What we do believe can be done – and is done in some places – is to condition these aids so that after that this does not have an impact on a speculative increase in the price of housing, and that this cannot have an impact on the price of housing, on generating more bubbles of housing. Therefore, there are many ways to be able to give answers and to channel these resources that are not used to make even more speculation and gentrification. Counsel, the Reallotgem. You're not happy. We find it interesting that you are not happy, but we consider that the figures are not good. And we have made concrete proposals as to how it could be improved. Like, for example, so, this, you don't have to wait until there's a denunciation order or there's 30 days left for the denunciation, with the anxiety that this creates for families. It's possible to intervene before. From the moment a small consort ceases to have tickets for the logger, it could already activate this mediation and form part of the Reallotgem program. Or, for example, so, this, that the families that have joined the moratoria... that stay out of it. That's to say, they go to a moratorium so they don't get denuded, and that keeps them from being after the benefits of the Reallotgem program. That's things you don't understand. And I'd like to talk a little bit about it... I think you'd come up thinking, "The commons already know what they'll do: they'll compare me to the Barcelona Assembly, and I already had the battery ready, the answers. And I didn't talk to him about the Barcelona Assembly, because I think it's just that I can talk about who the generalities of Catalonia are. But it's just that you've said some things that are more than... it's that they call the cell. So, how many housings...? You talked about the housings that the Trias Government built in its time, the ones that are being built now – they're not new, they're not two thousand in construction right now, more than they've already finished – but the question is how much the Generality hasn't done in this period. It is that they are not thirty-two, in the city of Barcelona, that is the city that is the most deficient in housing. Therefore, the question is no longer so much – I know it's hard – what the Barcelona Assembly has to do for housing, but what the Generalitat does for housing in Barcelona and the metropolitan area. In Barcelona the metropolity operator has launched himself to the metropolitan area, which will build 4,500 protected lloger habitats. So, what is the Government of Catalonia doing with this? He talked about how many people are on the waiting list of the Barcelona Assembly. No, Counselor, of the Consortium of Habitatage, where the Generality has the sixty_per_cent, and that does not place the habitats that touch it, for this sixty_per_cent. If the generality put them on, there wouldn't be these six-hundred people on the waiting list. So it's not over-responsibility. As far as I'm concerned, the problem of housing in Barcelona is also a problem of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and there is no answer. And, on the subject of expenditure, if there is no money, I make a proposal to you: I don't want money to make up for the great misdemeanours to offer social logue, which is what they are putting up with the ideas they have presented to the law for housing. This would probably save a few money that could be spent on public housing or helping the logger. But what you want to do is make up for your great fellows for their necessary co-responsibility at the time of offering social logue. Stop doing this and you'll see how many calerons there are going to be for public housing. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.205.0	Then she has the word, to make the reply, Constellera Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.206.0	Thank you very much, President. Miri, I told you about the Barcelona Assembly because it was you, the first one who told me about the Barcelona Assembly, when... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And so, when I took the example of Reallotgem. You gave me the example of Reallotgem... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So much. He gave me the example of Reallotgem, and I obviously took the Barcelona Assembly for nothing, huh? But because, in fact, it's true that it's the largest assembly in Catalonia, and therefore it's certainly very difficult. I insist, the competence of the creation of habitats is not only of the Generalitat, but also of the joints. And the Generality, in this case..., it is true, the Habitat Agency, therefore, is together with the Generality of Catalonia. They talked about the months. It is that the months of emergence are one of the Generality and the other of the great municipalities of Catalonia. And I've recognized the people who are at the emergency table of the Generality of Catalonia and I've told him that until he gets there... that twice as many are, basically, in the great assemblies of Catalonia. It's all right. I mean, it's not just the Barcelona City Council; it's the Barcelona City Council, the Lleida City Council, the Sabadell City Council, the Hospitallet City Council – among all, by disgrace. And I insist, I mean, in this council, they will find their hands open, unfortunately... Yes, I already recognize the housing shortage we have in Catalonia. So what I think is that we need to be able to work together. Miri, when we're talking about... before you gave me a comment. I did not have much interest either, because I have always said that, with the problem of the proposals of housing law that is going on here in Parliament, I speak as the government of the Generality. And I want to be very curious because parliamentary groups speak between parliamentary groups, to see how they define the different points to different laws. Only, however, will I comment on it, which is what really affects me as the Generalitat de Catalunya. The fact that the decree which was passed in Madrid on 37/2020 said that in suspensions of charges all the owners must be compensated – all, including all types of owners: banks and funds of reversal–..., a law which, when later validated at the Congress of Deputies, jointly voted Esquerra, the commons, the PSOE and the CUP. This meant that the Government of Catalonia had a petition of up to 500,000 euros to compensate for these types of owners. That's also what's affected us. [[applause]] , to the Generality of Catalonia, for a law that you approved at the Congress of Deputies that affects the Generality of Catalonia. Hey, that's all; the only thing I'm saying is why they're making a speech there, and here, for example, they're making another one. But, I insist, I believe that in the separation of powers..., I mean, one issue is what we do as the government of the Generality, and the other, the laws that are adopted in the Parliament of Catalonia. Therefore, this issue, therefore, is discussed in the committees and at their respective sessions, in order to be able to discuss how this draft law should end. I insist another time on the Reallotgem program. Yeah, we're happy with the Reallotgem program. But basically, we're also happy because we found a good welcome, so, benches, lawyers... And all the people we're talking to think that the Reallotgem program can be a good tool to be able to have floors that at these times are occupied by citizens, and that, therefore, they don't have to look for other floors, but simply use these floors. And the Reallotgem program, for which they don't know how it works..., so simply the Generalitat what it does is to get in touch with these owners, we pay up to five years of the Lloguer's debt, and the Generalitat is the one that does the contract of Lloguer with the owner. So we think it's a good tool, it's a great tool. What's going on is that we all have to believe it: the generality has to believe it, the owners have to believe it and the joints have to believe it, because we insist that it's a great tool to avoid money laundering. Moratorium's gonna end soon, too. Let's hope this house continues. And when it's over, if the Reallotgem program has to expand, we'll expand it. But now, at this point, there is supposed to be a moratorium that has to be stopped is that there are charges. Therefore, we work on what we have, which is a moratorium and a Reallotgem program that allows us to work with the owners and also with the citizens. And what you're asking is this: let's work all the administrations together. And I'm convinced that if we work hand in hand and work together, we'll get out of it. We certainly don't have all the resources we need; but, of those we have, sure, sure, sure, we will do our best to get to most of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.207.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about childhood policies]] [[300-00073/13]] Let's get to the top of the agenda, the question to the government about childhood policies, presented by the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the MP Irene Negre.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.208.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... society moves forward quickly, and day by day swallows us into a routine that many times puts us in second place some of our children's secondary needs. They need our support, support, love, but also the values and education, and that we help them build the pillars that will endure their lives. During their childhood they will learn and collect the majority of information that they will need to use to cope with the maturing stage; a stage, adolescence, that will not be easy for them or for the pair. If in this process of getting big there are all the external problems caused by the environment or society, we have infants exposed to a lot of risks, given their high vulnerability. For this and other reasons, from the department it was created the Secretary of Childhood, Adolescence and Youth, who has to work cross-sectionally with the rest of departments to age for these policies of affection to our little ones and our young. A secretary who must be able to give a view of the whole collection of children, adolescents and young people from Catalonia, understand it as one of the cycles of life. The Government's policy is to continue to advance in the criteria of Law 14/2010, of the rights and opportunities in childhood and adolescence, a law of eleven years ago, and that is why it is a priority to continue to deploy it. As I said at the beginning of my intervention, society is moving forward quickly, and this makes it necessary to adapt legal frameworks, with flexibility and rigour, to the new circumstances and sensitivities of our socio-cultural environment. Since the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child of 20 November 1989, social sensitivities towards children and adolescents have changed in a different way, but very notably in some respects, to all industrialized countries. In the European context, we were able to observe dynamics that promoted a more decisive respect for the rights of children and adolescents, above all in the line of intensifying actions against any form of maltreatment. At the same time, we have also witnessed the deployment of innovative names to achieve greater social responsibility for infants and adolescents, especially by increasing social participation. Thus, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child states that, in all measures taken in public institutions or deprived of social welfare, courts, administrative authorities or legislative bodies, they shall have a primary consideration of the child's best interests. It is a matter of assuming that we have a social responsibility towards the community of the child and adolescent population in Catalonia, because we aspire to a better society, and that it is necessary to make prevention, proactive actions that give opportunities to the child and the adolescent until now you do not think. Preventive social activities represent us for social policies and for social intervention programmes in the field of childhood and adolescence, since they involve actions on probabilities, not on unquestionable facts. It is for this reason that it can facilitate instruments, even legislative instruments, to reduce the generic probability of events that negatively affect the child or adolescent population, and to enhance actions that guarantee an increase in social welfare to the entire population. The Council of Europe ensures that the poor and social exclusion of children can be tackled more effectively by means of comprehensive systems incorporating preventive measures of family recovery, education and early childhood care, social rights, education and housing policies. The economic crisis has also had an impact on children, up to the point that children and adolescents are the age group with the greatest incidence of taxes on poverty or social exclusion. The risk rate for child poverty in Catalonia in 2020 is 33,4_per_cent. These situations of vulnerability directly impact the personal and social development of infants, and place them in dynamic perils of disadvantage. Dynamics that, as the Council of Europe says, can create the risk of building a lost generation, formed by disillusioned people, with possible very negative consequences in terms of social cohesion and political stability. The European Guardianship Network has rejected the task of the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights to develop a common strategy for caring for young people who migrate alone, counting on the contributions of Catalonia and its child protection system. This and the General Directorate of Child and Adolescent Care of the Generality have been working together since 2019, and, in concrete terms, the European network has been interested in the ability of Catalonia, our country, to face this migratory challenge by supporting the deployment of the Catalan strategy for the reception and inclusion of young migrants alone. I would not want to finish my intervention without putting in value the work of the Consellera Cervera and its department, and in particular of the DGAIA, that ages for the welfare and safety of 7,590 children and adolescents with protective measure outside the family nucleus for having experienced a situation of unemployment – fifty-three_per_cent of them collits in residential centers and forty-seven_per_cent collits in extended family or alien. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.209.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer, the social rights advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.210.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, thank you very much for this inquiry; an inquiry to discuss the childhood policies and the childhood policies of the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth, of the Department of Social Rights. Look, you've also commented on some data; allow them to expand a little as well. In Catalonia there are 1,400,000 children and adolescents – therefore, underage –; of these, 48,5_per_cent are young, and 15,7_per_cent are of foreign nationality. Infants and adolescents in Catalonia, therefore, represent the division_per_cent of the population. The number of infants and adolescents at risk is 20,781 children, of whom 6,636 are in high risk dispatch. Therefore, in Catalonia we have 27,417 children and adolescents who are in a situation of risk, of lack of protection. The Department of Social Rights has among its functions the policies of childhood, adolescence and youth. And, while there are many of them, I would like to bring them together in four, mainly: guardianship – the protection of children who are especially helpless – protection, participation – we must encourage participation among the youngest – and inter-departmental coordination. Not all of the childhood policies that the Government of Catalonia is a fan of the Department of Social Rights, but each department, therefore, has its own. With regard to the protection and protection of children and adolescents without help, only a few data. Each year the DGAIA rep around fifteen_ thousand situation notifications that may be likely to be out of work. Between the 1st of generation and the 1st of November 2021, the Phone of Childhood Response was awarded 9,500 tricks, and the Udepmi has opened more than 2,200 new dispatchers, of which seventy-four_per_cent have been dispatchers of unemployment. Each year the EAIA makes a follow-up to twenty thousand infants. Plus, in the middle of the year, these teams do up to 1,500 studies and do a couple of thousand social services advisories. Why am I telling you, that's all? Because one of the main functions of DGAIA is to protect all these children and adolescents who find themselves at this risk of unemployment. And these children, when they go to the custody of the DGAIA, end up feeling the children of the Generality, to hear us, and therefore they need all our support. In Catalonia there are 16,519 boys and girls with high risk dispatch or DGAIA protection measure. And you said before some of your data: 6,576 are in a difficult risk situation and 3,118 have disempowerment dispatches. So, a lot of work. Up to 1,000 tutorials in the year, does the DGAIA. Of these – you also had not given the data – 775 are just under the direction and direct protection of DGAIA, fifty-three_percent of them in residential centers and 45.9_percent in families. So, work, lots of work. But the DGAIA does not only accompany minors and minor wards; it also accompanies extolled majors. Catalonia is one of the few autonomous communities that offer this service. These assistive dispatches... at these times up to 3,500 young majors of age are joined in these programs, of which 2,049 are young migrants alone. And programs serve for housing programs, economic benefits, or legal support. The 1,500 young people who are extolled are, in fact, beneficiaries of these economic benefits. But from the Secretary of Children, Adolescence and Youth there is not only the attention and protection to these young people who are in a state of unemployment, because we have other responsibilities – among them, the need to deploy Law 14/2010. And now in these moments what we want to do is an assessment of our own protection system. This same month of November we started a process of evaluating the protection system based on the opinion of pro- and adolescent guardians and their referral professionals with the objective of having annual information on the following themes: safety, stability, development, health or education. We want to assess what our resources are so that we can better care for these children. The comprehensive protection system, which also affects issues of sexual abuse... A pilot project, the Barnahus, was launched last year, which is a comprehensive care project that affects children and children who are victims of sexual abuse. This project, which started in Tarragona and which unfortunately, up to 278 children, we want to extend to all the ages of Catalonia. And that's what we're doing in this legislature, too. Another of the powers and responsibilities of DGAIA is the struggle against the poor child. And through the Catalan strategy for the eradication of the poor we fight, through the European children's guarantee..., the prevention against this poor child. Another of the great reptes, which we've talked about many times... the mental health and emotional well-being of young people and infants. And we will work together with the Department of Health to fight for this mental salvation and also for fighting child and youth suicide. Other services that are also due to the AIFM's term: the non-residential socio-educational intervention service for children and adolescents at risk and their families, to reinforce the preventive character in coordination with ABSs. At these moments the program, which was deployed to Tarragona, Lleida and Girona and the Lands of the Ebro..., we also begin this deployment of this service so important to the demarcation of Barcelona. But, as I said, protection and protection are not only the competences of the Generality and the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth; also the promotion of participation, participation of children. Therefore, we will recover the childhood pact signed in 2013 – we believe it is a good tool – so that we can update it and make a new integral plan of childhood and adolescence. Plus, we're gonna start a first-time child participation survey. We want to know what they think, how they have experienced the pandemic, what lessons they have learned, how they perceive the climate change... And this complementarity will also allow us to have a guide to our country to know what young people, adolescents and children think. We last the first National Congress for Children and Adolescents. In line with the promotion of these young people's participation, we want to make a pioneering initiative in the State, which will be this first Children's and Adolescents' Congress, and we have it scheduled for November 20, 2022. This first congress will be an area of participation and opinion that is unprecedented in the Spanish and innovative State at European level, where half a thousand children and children between eight and seven years will culminate in a whole process of participation. We also want to be able to interact with infants, teenagers and young people. We believe that there should be a holistic view of the three collections: children, adolescents..., especially in adolescents, but also in young people. And another of the things that we also have as the government and as the government of the Generality, and that I especially grow there, are all the coordination tools that we have to be able to last with the rest of the departments of the Generality. Through the National Table of Childhood, various departments are involved, the municipalist entities, the deputies, representatives of the Observers of the Right of Childhood, we will work together to be able to discuss all the competitions that have the different departments and that we, as the secretary, have the obligation, also, to be able to coordinate. Because it's the kids, the teenagers, the young people that matter to us. I insist, putting a very special emphasis on teenagers. We always talk about infants and talk about young people, and we leave a very important part of our society, which is surely when they have the age of maturity, that they are neither big nor small. All these things that we put on the face of the table, that we want to put on the face of the table with all the actors, with children and teenagers as protagonists..., what we want is to be able to lay the foundations of a new model where children and children can grow in full freedom and decide themselves as they want to live, as they see the world and as they want to relate to us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.211.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the model of follow-up and residence in dependent life]] [[300-00076/13]] Let's move on to the fourteenth point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the model of follow-up and residence in dependent life, presented for the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Maria Dolors Sabater. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you could get in touch with him... we'd be waiting for a few minutes, please. [[Pause. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.212.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, people who followed us from home, entities that I am also present here... Today, while we start this Ple that is already up at the end, at the last hour, outside the Parliament there is a demanding concentration of users, family members and workers of a housing service who are struggling because funding does not allow them to maintain the service. They cannot guarantee to sustain it economically, and, if they have to shut it down, they will leave more than a hundred people without this service. Depending on others to sustain life is a condition inherent in human condition. This is a learning that has become very clear with the covid, the import of the community, the need of the community. Ecofeminism has long conceptualized it, but it is certain that there are conditions that accentuate this dependence and that the absolutely vital fan. They can be conditions of salvation, conditions of life cycle – child, infantesse, vellesa –, functional diversity... Just the other day, here in this House, we talked about the stars that had made the cove in the residences. We were talking about the big people and we were talking about the need to rethink the model of follow-up to dependence, to rethink it because it had made strides and because there are not enough modalities, enough different forms of do this follow-up, and we have no clear public policies, because it is a sector that we have mostly privatized and with very few public places. This is the motivation for us to fail, basically, the system, which also involves a great precariousness of the labor sector. These alerts that make us entities, associations, families, social movements, counsel, pose us in some way to the table – and today we bring it here, in this hemisphere – the consideration of violation of basic rights, of fundamental rights, of all people who see themselves affected by this situation. He's an alert critter to get out of the invisibility. And here I think it's important to remember what Sousa Santos' socioleg Boaventura explains, when he talks about the systems of power and oppression putting these generators on the market, this way of generating absences, non-existences that lead us to the invisibility of groups and ways of living, of life forms, to label them as irrelevant, inferior, unproductive and generators of different degrees of exclusion. Now we could spread 'nsen temes..., talk of capacitism, of this intersectionality that adds vulnerability, that adds vulnerability and exclusions... This issue, she advises, will also make it visible, will break this invisibility, this situation of exclusion, on the very 3rd of December, when hundreds of associations, coordinated by Dincat – which are also present here in the hemisphere, accompany us – will make public and claim the theme of support places, of accompanying for an independent habitation, of residential places, with the different manners they have. And I wanted to tell her, Counselor, that I asked her this question a few months ago. You, when you answered me, told me you couldn't quantify who these waiting lists were. It means that, by luck, we have the law of transparency and that, by right of access to public information, therefore, these lists exist. These data have been quantified, and we have two ways. We don't put them on protective floors, support them to independent life, but on homes and residences. And only with these two ways do we already exceed 2,500 seats, which are not covered. And that's not the whole sector, all the need; they're the ones who asked for this place. But it's that, whatever it is, it's not just the issue of independent life. We are talking, counsel, that we touch the environment we touch... Education: you know that the people who have made the inclusive itinerary, when they arrive in the majority of years, when they come out of the compulsory, very often get absolutely steep, without going out of the way? What about access to culture and the ocean? What's going on with the labor camp? You know, deputies and deputies, that, just in terms of the employment rate, the disability sector is almost forty-five points under normality, of which it is the general index, and no longer can I say the rate of the force, which is about 14.5_per_cent? Do you know about the sustainability problems of the CETs, the special work centres? Do you know that there is no specific regulation or support model for access to reading and culture for adults with disabilities when, precisely in these special conditions, the areas of socialization, oce and culture are absolutely vital? The centers, she advises, are closing because they cannot support, and there are no public policies, public services that offer this service. So, yes, Counselor, I'm talking about a violation of rights. And it's not because these rights aren't protected, because we have fantastic laws. The laws have them, the laws have won in the struggles of all the associations, of the families, of the usual people, of the civil society, with an ingenious struggle, already in the tardifranchism, the struggles of the eighties, in which..., I just want to remember that in the eighties the creatures that had multiple disabilities or disorders of important behavior were not even considered educational; this is a struggle that was also won. I will not quote now all the laws we have, because you know them well enough. But what's going on? That these laws don't serve us, because they don't apply. I mean, we have the laws, we have it written. We also now have the law of equality, which clearly says that there can be no discrimination because of functional diversity, intellectual, mental disability, because of sensory, physical deficiencies... but it turns out that the lack of public policies that make it possible for there to be a real disability that causes it by social structure, the system. I would like to recall, just by setting the example that..., when I was talking about the Pere Mitjans Foundation, which is the one that is outside... The Pere Mitjans Foundation, when forty years ago, on community initiative, began to push for responses to a need that public administrations do not cover, did so with two clear and innovative perspectives – two –: to become public service, and second, to implement and defend the more dignified and more inclusive follow-up model. Many associative initiatives promoted services that did not exist, in this sense, and hoped that the administrations would complete them, but it has not been so – it has not been so. It is more, an entity that represents the scientific committees that analyze how care should be for people with disabilities..., this model of non-institutionalized follow-up, not of large massive residencies, is what they are going to end up with, and cannot sustain. I would like, finally, to read a writing, a paragraph that includes his press note, which says: "In the more than forty years of operation, people have been given support with diversity and great need to bear worthy lives realizing what everyone usually does. "We have been able to move from institutionalization to having worthy and chosen lives, not imposed on residential models that have difficulty giving space to individuals. Paradoxically, this model of support for life independent of people with large dependencies, this model that is inclusive, next and community, as recommended by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a model that requires higher levels of staff than those of more massive and existential residents, is at risk. But, above all, what we have here in the world, here in the front, is an absolute lack of public policies, of public places of residence and of accompanying independent life in all spheres of life. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.213.0	Next is the social rights advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.214.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MP Sabater, thank you very much for your inquiry. In fact, a few months ago, I don't know, of..., I don't know when it was the appearance that we had gone through with the government members to explain who the department's lines of work were, but at that time I marked the priorities – and that we would try to concentrate there – because, even if we wanted to get to more... –, the resources we had, we decided, therefore, with our team, that we would concentrate them on four great areas of action. And I'm happy, because today we've been talking about the four areas. In the morning we started with a motion about the program contract, and one of the important developments is through the program contract. You talk about it.... I also said in that appearance that we would try or do our best to reduce the waiting list of the law of dependence, also in places, and today you are asking me, therefore, an inquiry in this sense. The Junts Group for Catalonia spoke of childhood, which was also one of our priorities. And the group of common people has told us about housing, which is also one of the department's priorities. Therefore, first of all, thank you, because I see that we are on the same line, so the groups of Parliament and the Department of Social Rights. So, let's head over here. And I assure you, because I already explained to you the diverging, that the growths we have, presuppositions, are dedicated, precisely, to these four great areas. I'm also happy about another topic, Mrs. Sabater. I'm happy because it's the first time I think I'm feeling the CUP Group – and I'm not very happy, really – about public-social collaboration. Because for us it's important, this public-social collaboration. We understand that the service is to be public, and that there are many entities in our country that have been working for the good for many years – decades, in fact. Many, in addition to... many of these entities of persons with disabilities began precisely because they were families gathering together to be able to serve, therefore, their children. I am therefore glad that we are aligning ourselves in this line, in this social public collaboration. The department's presupposition. We have already commented on this: more than 3,800_million euros. Miri, forty-five percent of the department's budget– 1,739 million, with a rise in the deu_per_cent– we are dedicated, precisely, to this promotion of personal autonomy. Indeed, Mrs Sabater, our priority is to reach out to all the people I need. And I'll keep another one of these: especially to people who have some kind of disability, because we also understand, from the department, that they are the families that can cost them the most to give attention, the attention that they deserve, therefore, to all these people. Therefore, if they give us a hand and we approve the assumptions, then these assumptions will serve us, precisely, for this, in order to be able to allocate 27_million euros with related economic benefits that can help people, with these aids, and reduce the waiting lists, so that we will approve 53_million euros for home care services, to those people who need these services, or 28_million euros for nine places for large people, people with disabilities or people who have mental illness problems. And, moreover, the premise also allows us, through the European foundations– yes, it is true, through the European foundations, and very happy that we are, that we can hold these European foundations –, therefore, the construction and renovation, in its conjunction, of more than 200_million euros, of equipment, of residences for people with mental illness problems, people with disabilities or great people, or also people in a situation of sensibility. Or EUR 60 million, which must also enable us to help these people in their personal autonomy, precisely at their own expense, because we want to deinstitutionalize. What do we mean, when we talk about institutionalizing? So we think that everyone has to be able to live where he wants and how he wants, and for as long as he wants, where he wants. And that means that if a great person wants to spend the days or wants to be in a residence, then we must be able to facilitate a public place in that residence, but if a great person wants to be in his house, in his home, with his family, we must be able to give him the necessary elements. Therefore – and, moreover, I also asked Parliament to be able to talk about it – we all need to be able to build this new model of personal autonomy. There's a lot of literature. Many people have been working, precisely, on this new model of personal autonomy, and we believe it and want it hard in the long run. And a new model of personal autonomy that reaches the entire territory. Catalonia – and we all know it – is a different, different country. Eighty per cent of the population living in the metropolitan area has needs different from the needs that may be held in rural areas or in the most unpopulated areas. As public servants, we need to be able to give attention to all people. And we will do so by deploying different resources adapted to the needs of each of the territories; perhaps in smaller territories we can make service centres or day centres, because residential resources cannot keep them at all. And so, to go help people who can make this journey of life. Therefore, don't give me a second, because we, precisely, want to work on this same line. Let's talk about data and waiting lists. Yes, we know we have waiting lists, some waiting lists – and, more importantly, we're already working, so with the ministry which is a problem of disconnection and disconnection. And the other... it's true, we have waiting lists for two main reasons: one, for the system's own management. It is not easy to manage this whole issue of waiting lists; there are many actors involved, from the people who enter the requests to which they value, those who end up managing the IAPs – which are the joints... Therefore, it is complex to reduce these waiting lists. And it's also a presuppositional theme. And we, as far as we can, are going to ask for resources to reduce these waiting lists. But... just a few dice. And I'm not giving them the data we think we can get to 2022, but the data that was hard to come to the end of 2020, which are the real ones. Number of persons benefiting from the Catalan system of autonomy and care for dependence: 168,429; number of day and residential care places for large persons with dependence and persons with disabilities: 62,118; places in support services for the autonomy of their own home and in residential boarding centres for persons with mental illness: 3,880; number of persons benefiting from the economic benefit of the law of dependence: 105,017; activities performed for the assessment teams for persons with disabilities: 119,322. And you, Mrs. Sabater, you know, just like everyone– just like everyone– that we have a law of dependence that was a good law poorly dimensioned, poorly funded, in which at these times the State only lays the remaining fifteen_per_cent– there is the Government of Catalonia. In the law of dependence there are up to 1,500_million euros. A lot of money. So much so that I can afford it more. But if the State, then, broadened the parties of this law of dependence, surely we could also reach a very large number of people. So, Mrs. Sabater, I'm really... lined up at cent_per_cent. Our intention is that all citizens can have at their disposal the resources necessary to be able to have this personal autonomy. And I assure you that from the department we will work tirelessly to make this possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.215.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word the deputy Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.216.0	Well, counselor, thank you. I was surprised by his answer, because, in the first place, I specifically gave him the example that the Pere Mitjans Foundation was born willingly to be public. If we made a simile with the Cepepc schools, which, on community initiative, they made a popular counterpower in the construction of schools, because during the Franco regime they made choices where it was possible to make education active, democratic and in catalá..., they were born with the will to finish passing to the public network. And, precisely, one of the things that I criticized and that the entity also criticized is that in forty years it never stood up. The second thing that seems to me to be cheating on the part of your answer is that you refer me to the assumption. And I, sincerely, counsel, have not been able to see any departure where I say 'construction...'; for example, 'construction of large residences, 'assisted flats, 'protected flats, or programmes of support for independent life for large dependent people. I didn't know how to see this line of action in a cup that I could think is a priority of this government's public policies to get up to date in a deficit that we've been running for so many years. I didn't see it. Nor have I seen that day centres are increasing, or that home care services are increasing in a significant way. And I want to remind you of one thing. She's not that far away. You refer to 2020: during the covid the day centers closed. We're talking about big dependent people who, once they're home, need twenty-four hours of the day, seven days a week, 365 days a year, a person who's been supporting them. And it turns out we shut down the day centers and we didn't put up with it. We did not predict that these people might have to stop working in order to be able to do this attention, we did not predict a substitute service. And even these day centers have trigated months and months... when the schools were already open, when the schools were already open, these day centers have continued to close, with the impact that this entails on the organization of the tribe, the family, the support of the immediate community, to support it. And I can no longer say the hardships that you suppose, as has happened with the great people, to be absolutely surrounded by community activity, socio-educational and cultural activities. Therefore, I believe that your non-concrete answer will really be how we will overcome these difficult shortcomings. And we will present the motion with very concrete proposals, to which I hope we will have the support of its political organizations. And finally, speaking of the extent to which we have out here, obviously, for our proposal, our political demand, it seems to us that it is from public policies that this rescue from an entity that, if it closes the doors – if it closes the doors – will cease to provide a service that should be public. And it would have to be public not only because it is an obligation of the country's public policies to put on the political agenda the attention of people with disabilities, but also to avoid the labor precariousness that it entails, as with the SADs and as with many services. In Reus, too, at the level of mental salvation, demands are now being made, in concrete terms, on this subject of labour issues. If concerted financing is precarious, this goes against the dignity of attention and goes against the labor rights of the people who pull this service. Therefore, deeply grateful to all these community initiative entities, which have done an extra job, which have removed the lack of public policies. But don't be mistaken: we demand public policies. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.217.0	And, lastly, there's the word, in the turn of the reply, the social rights counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.218.0	Thank you very much, President. I didn't want to talk to him more about the fact that he's out here, the Pere Mitjans Foundation. Just tell him that I met them on July 27th – so, very soon after I entered the cargo bay. We talked to them. I know perfectly well who his problems are; some more than you have commented and I will not comment here. And it's true: there's another problem that we also need to be able to solve, that we've talked about on some occasion and now we don't talk about it, that's the subject of the service portfolio. These entities, especially those in the third sector, have a big problem, because the portfolio of services is too rigid and sometimes it costs to be able to adapt to the services, some services and others. Yes, there is an important economic game in the assumptions. What's going on is that it's not defined. And it is not defined because, precisely, they are European foundations. Taking into account all our shortcomings, and, as I have said, our preferences at the time of using these assumptions are the program contract, the reduction of the lists of hope, habitat or childhood, and taking into account that we have enough money or many money of European funds dedicated especially to construction or rehabilitation, precisely, of long-stay or day-stay residences for large people, dependent people, people with mental illness or senselessness, so... These money is true that they are not diversified..., or is not explained in the premise we are doing..., or whatever residence we are remodeling, simply because we have not yet been able to sign the agreement with the ministry. I think we'll sign in brief, because at these moments, for what they tell us, the intervention of the Ministry of Social Rights. But before the end of the year we will sign this agreement, we will provide the Generality with up to 400_million euros, 200_million euros of which are destined for these equipments. And I can't tell you where we're going to make them, because we're going to make a public call, a public call addressed to groups and entities, to book a game of money for equipment suitable for the Government of Catalonia. And this is the reason why it's not specified whether or not we're going to make a residence in Terrassa, to tell you that I know it's widely claimed here. We don't have the money yet, and we haven't been able to pull it off. And as soon as we get the call, we can come, explain, and account for where all this money went. He told us about the covid, about the closing of the day centers... I wasn't there at that stage – I wasn't there. It is true that when we arrived, we all thought that the pandemic had already..., that we could already forget about the pandemic, among other things because most of the users, especially the residents of large people, were all vaccinated and thought that the blanket had stopped. But in full awareness of the difficulties that the sector experienced during the time of the covid. I'm not going to assess whether or not these day centers are closed or not, because, as you know, the protocols are set by the Health Department. That said, once I am advised, I understand that the day centers are closed, because the day centers the difficulty they have, unlike residences, is that their users come in and out. And we've said many times that, more than I'm sure that the coven has served us to review different protocols, to review the way we relate to the Health Department, that it has also been very good for us to be able to do some kind of thing – I already know that you don't like the word "agency," I don't know if it's an agency or an instrument, but some kind of instrument that has to allow the two departments to work together so that we don't go back to what happened to us during the coven... And one of the main problems we've had with the covid is just this: the reception to fight the covid. And I covet it in those moments..., it was the winging, all the contrary of what we expect from residential centers or day centers, which we want to be open spaces, where family members can go and their own users can relate to it. Therefore, this is the motto – I suppose..., well, it's this – for which the day centers were closed, because users obstruct and exit and this was a risk. And before the risk of life, then, the best thing that can be done is to close the center of the day. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-18-1702.219.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. With this we arrive at the end of the session. The session's up.
