ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.1.0	Very nice late. The session begins. [[Condol demonstration for the victims of the fire at the Tetuan Square in Barcelona]] And I would like my first words today to express my condolences and dismay at the death this morning of a family with two children in the fire that took place at a place in Barcelona's Tetuan Square. It's a disgrace that you're asking all of us about the background problem that's been caused by this tragedy. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also before the beginning of the order of the day I inform you that, in compliment of that established by the Movement 111/XII, of the Parliament of Catalonia on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2021 there are a total of 1,645 victims dead and disappeared to the Mediterranean. I also want to make them believe that tomorrow Parliament has cleared up an area to be able to donate blood. Giving blood is always necessary, because we make it life. Now, however, it is more than ever, because the pandemic of the covid has caused many interventions, which are now taking place. And the transfusions increase, in cals plus, the volume of blood, than is usual; 1,100 daily doses, in caldrian. And the donation rate, now that Nadal's parties are over, starts to go down. That is why I encourage all the Members, all the members of the parliamentary groups, workers of the Parliament, who so desire and who naturally have the capacity, who give blood. Because, as we also remembered on World Donor Day, which we celebrated last June, donating blood allows the world to continue battling. On the other hand, these days too, it is admirable to remember that democratic countries are built on consensus, that they define them and that they identify them. In Catalonia, one of these consensuss is the need to preserve the Catalan language, the common language of the Catalan Countries; an indestriable symbol of our identity. Regrettably, judicial interference re-affects this country's consensus around the language. And it must be remembered – and this Parliament must do so – that this great agreement is endorsed; it is endorsed legislatively. The language laws emanating from this Parliament have been approved by a large majority and must be respected. [[Greetings.]] The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is already included in the dossier and, in accordance with Rule 164, will be replaced tomorrow morning. It will be the first point of the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Asking the Government about the challenges of modernising and transforming industry]] [[300-00078/13]] Let's move on to the eighth point of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about the challenges to the modernization and transformation of the industry. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can and has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.2.0	Good afternoon. We want you all to say good things. Pass the... [[relays]] to the inquiry: we are talking about industry, Catalan industry. We're talking about Catalan industry not in the void, huh? We do this in a country where we are living certain conflicts today. We remember Mahle, Vilanova and the Geltrú ; or the Barcelona plant of Gestamp, with threats of closure, displacement processes derived, obviously, from the crisis of the transformation of the car sector. I've also done this with news that we've seen today in the newspapers, about the uncertainty of Alstom's plant, about a workload that could guarantee the production and occupation of more than 1,500 people– three_ thousand, if we count the suppliers– for more than five years, huh? ; a plant of Santa Perpètua de la Mogoda, in which more than sixty companies that work in the construction of trains also to Catalonia, together with Alstom. We know about Nissan's conflict, that we hope that the propers die will be resolved positively. We know of the critical situation of the meat sector, with negative externalities in the territory, but also with a high job insecurity of a key sector in the conjunction, also, of the Catalan industry. With this panorama, we can only begin the inquiry by saying that industrial policy in Catalonia has problems, that the reactivation of economic activity in Catalonia takes us with an obsolete and obsolete industrial model; an industrial model that is exhausted and inefficient in a hollow context of limits and contradictions. A reality that the government cannot ignore and to which it must give an answer. The political dilemma the government has before it is already an old dilemma, huh? Let us be the free market that determines industrial strategies while the Government simply accompanies the changes and adaptations that industrial enterprises have made or, on the contrary, the Catalan Government has a strategic horizon and leads industrial policy to bring about changes and transformations in the material base, which act as a tractor of the innovations that will be produced in industrial enterprises? Accompanying or leading industrial transformation is the dilemma the government has before it today. To continue accompanying, as has always done, what the market determines, or to lead the strategic transformations that we need and that should be reflected in the proper national pact for industry. But the first thing we have to decide is whether the national pact for industry has to be a regulation of measures and actions to be implemented between 2022 and 2025; therefore, court-minister, because the current industrial correction deficit and introduction of betters to be viable, or we are driving strategic planning in a time horizon of 2022-2030, where we lay the material bases to change and transform the industrial model. It's not exactly the same for a lot of it seems to be the same. It is good that the national pact for industry is built from consensus and social dialogue, but the national pact for industry needs a strong leadership, a government that needs to know where to go. If you want to go with long-term transformation strategies, of foundations, leading the transformation; or simply accompany the small adaptations that companies can make, to try to stay above the mix, right? That is why we need to know, in any case, what are the current limits of the Catalan industrial model; whether or not the current model is viable in a future, more or less immediate. The Catalan industry accounts for about 20% of the gross domestic product, which is therefore comparable to Europe's most industrialised or industrialised regions. Highly exporting, over the middle of the European Union, also included in technological products; but, attention, because an industry that only comes out but doesn't come out also ends up feeling a little attractive for those companies that produce it out. The companies they produce want to sell outside, but they also want to sell inside, if they don't have market inside, why the hell do they want to be here, when they have to transport what they produce. Therefore, attention, sometimes, to making cophosms of things that also have their contradiction. Twenty_per_cent of GDP, disset_per_cent of the employed population means that it is a value-added, highly exporting industry that has its pros, but it also has its cons, but very dependent on imports. And here we have our shortcomings. The noranta-tre_per_cent or 93,4_per_cent of the energy consumed by the Catalan industry is imported. The materials, more than 70% of the materials used by the Catalan industry, import them, and, moreover, with a strong non-renewable component, non-recyclable, and a high technological dependence – for example, with the subject of microxips –, the result, in short, of the low investment in industrial innovation, half, say, that the European Union, for which it would be able to technologically. With this panorama, we can predict that if energy prices rise, if the prices of materials rise, and increase the supply difficulties of technological component, the time frame draws a panorama of industrial col·lapse and lack of competitiveness. In future scenes, the current industrial model is not viable. We cannot continue to believe that Catalonia is a preferred industrial installation site. The differential values that until now underpin this statement – the industrial tradition of Catalonia, good communications, low wages – are no longer determinant. We cannot go on acritically applauding the landing of new investments, regardless of whether these strengthen or not change strategies, because there are other competitive variables in our lives: the price of the soil, communication infrastructures, formatary capital, decision-making centres, generation of renewable energy, compete with these elements, our lives, in which we are struggling. That is why we need great transformations in the Catalan industry. We are faced with the need for an industrial conversion, which means making a transformation into another model, which requires a fair transition. They're at the expense of our industrial future. We lose competitiveness for the attraction of industrial investments, because others improve and we don't do things to strengthen us. Where are the alternatives that can be organized? It's a strategic plan. We need to address three major strategic challenges: energy sovereignty – renewable – in order not to be dependent. We have sun, we have sun and biomass; so far, we come as servants and tourists, now we can make it serve for energy. The sixty percent of the territory is forest mass; it must be prevented to preserve the territory, but it must also take advantage of this territory, this forest mass, as a source of energy. We can get out of the bio-industry, we can make the forest profitable energetically and materially. They can talk about bioeconomy, replacing non-renewable raw materials for renewable raw materials, both in the production of energy and materials. We can move from the refinery to the biorefinery. Extracting forest biomass materials, hydrogen, ethanol, etc. We need to talk about a circular economy, an economy that allows us not to mismatch materials, but to reuse them, thus making us more independent in material matters. And it is necessary to invest in R+D+I, which is where an innovative industry can really be built, an industry that can cope with strategic challenges. We need to electrify the industry, we need to electrify mobility and we need to electrify transport. We need to reduce material intensity and we need to implement the circular economy. It is certain that certain projects of high investment volume will need to finance them with the Next Generation funds, and the Ministry of Industry is centralizing the competitions of these funds. I, therefore, may find it difficult to lead projects. The ministry is sure to do so because of centralist conviction, but also because of the need for companies, which require a high degree of confidentiality in the exploration for their investments. Therefore, we must not regret this; we must place ourselves in this reality in order to attract those European investments and projects that can land in our country. All this does not show that there is strategic planning by the government for the energy transition, and without that there can be no confidence in the reversal. We are not observing government tractor projects: what do we do before the car is transformed? , we maintain the policy of loans and endorsements to companies but do not take part to intervene in the decisions that I make? What do we do with the agri-food sector, which is very intense in water and land, with a very intense production model, like in the warehouse, with a lot of negative impacts, without drawing any strategy of change? What do we do with logistics, which has a lot of external costs, like the great logistics centers of Empordad, Gornal or Lleida? ; isn't the strategic time to continue betting for logistics? What do we do with the transport of long-distance goods that are no longer up with ships and that the train is each time taking more prominence in the joint venture of Europe? ; there is a territorial imbalance for what does it do to industry, what does it do before this territorial imbalance? ; do we play the territory with industrial strategies or let all this flow? In short, we have important challenges in industrial policy and we do not see that at this point in time the Government is leading these change projects. Unfortunately, we have the feeling that the government is continuing with an inevitable transformation that the industrial sector needs to experience in the light of the logic of the market, but not from a strategic leadership of foundations that allows us to change the material bases where our structure, our industrial economy, approaches the strategic challenges that we have before. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.3.0	Then has the word Business and Work Advisor, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.4.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Gallego, for your inquiry. From the start, I'll buy you the initial premise, huh? This supposed dilemma, which has an obvious ideological component, of whether to accompany industry in the most liberal, more neoliberal, sense of the term, is to say that the Administration purely is to move away and let the private sector make decisions on its own, which would be where it was at its moment to make it famous that the best industrial policy is that it does not exist, huh? This is an option, actually, I buy the premise; the dilemma is between this or between leading the transformation process that the country's economy needs together, the combination of society, I would say, and, in particular, industry, the industrial sector; a transformation process that we want to face and lead with the transformation of the product model, to make it more sustainable – certainly the demands of climate change bring us –; to make it more resilient, that we want to be prepared to take on more guarantees such as we have experienced during the pandemic and that we hardly expect to succeed, with these crises that affect our own structures, our own foundations, our society, and, ultimately, putting people at the center? Therefore, sustainability, resilience and putting people at the center. And as I told him to buy him the dilemma, I will answer, obviously: between accompanying or leading, without any doubt leading. It is precisely we who want to equate with this scheme which is being imposed, by chance, ideologically, on the joint venture of Europe to establish that governments are exercising their role as employers' administrations, eh? What do you mean, "Listen, let's set a target, where we want to go, what is the screen we want to get to, and what do you have to see with these vectors that you mentioned before, how do we deal with these lines that we have ahead of us; therefore, let's draw this road map that we have to take up here, and, at the same time, we're also a tractor, huh? for the private sector, and we work together with the private sector to address these transformations that are necessary. And this we want to do on the basis of a perspective, certainly of ideological character, but also with a clear and obvious tool, which is the national pact for industry. You said: "We do not think that the Administration, in this case the Government of the Generality, is leading it. Fixed that the first methodology for the elaboration of the national pact for industry denies this statement. The previous national pact for industry comes from the demand of civil society, which, in some ways, pressures, in the best sense of the word, the institutions to come up with a national pact for industry; a national pact for industry that, by other means – and this is the element of self-criticism that we do – was basically a retreat of measures that the Government of the Generality was already developing and that did not have a disruptive vocation, we could say so, or tractor, as at least. Just now we are doing the opposite, not because that methodology was not effective, from a generic point of view, but because it seems to us that precisely now our role is this leadership role. And, therefore, the proposal of the National Pact for Industry comes from the Department of Enterprise and Labour, is consensual with all the economic and social actors that form part of its plenary, and determines concrete executive actions that allow to transform, as before, the industry and, by extension, the production model of the country. And say executive actions because precisely this is the objective; I would probably say that at last the national pact for industry..., that we do not want it to be pure rhetoric, that we do not want it to be a related sea, but that it has, almost in the form of a checklist, very determined measures that must be used to improve the future prospects of the industry in this country. And who are these future horizons that we plant? Basically, this twenty-i-five_per_cent that we always admire. You were talking about the dinosaur, almost 20 percent, specifically 19.3 percent of the gross value added of the country's industry, which is true that this places us more or less in the middle of Europe's 20th-century, huh? But far from those countries we still want to emmiralate. We're always talking about Germany and the 20-and-five-per-cent; it's true that now Germany has downloaded a little and it's around the 20-and-four-per-cent, but in any case, it seems like a good reference. And, therefore, what we want to do is to move towards this horizon, as I said, with a national pact for industry that must have these concrete actions and be based on consensus. Consent is not denied with leadership. The Government of the Generality must be able to mark this path, however, without the agreement of the economic and social agents of the country, and also of the political formations represented here, it is impossible for the national pact for industry to have the transversal, the political pes, in the broadest sense of the word, that it must have. I mean, it's not... it's not going to be an executive policy of a particular government, even if it's on 2022-2025, so, more or less at the end, but it's going to be a country's structural pact; a country's structural pact that has to define, with five large areas, these reptiles or threats that the country's industry today has. And that's exactly why we have marked these five axes that will support it: from one band, sustainability, energy and the circular economy. Fixed that all three of you have specifically broken them down in your intervention: sustainability – therefore, energy transition –, energy and circular economy, three elements on which we have to work and on which we have to centralize the industry of the net and efficient future that we want for our country; net and efficient, which is determined not only by this but by what has to emerge from the second task, which is digitization, industry 4.0, innovation and internationalization, which is true that you have some readings, huh? , which may be the result of some internal shortcomings, but in any case it is the opposite and the permanent vocation of the economy of this country – internationalization, digitalization, industry 4.0, innovation and internationalization. A third element, humà capital. Obviously, it is essential to introduce the work factor into this process of transformation, if there is no process of transformation; if we are not able to propitiate the tools, the necessary instruments because the workers and the workers can be the protagonist of this transformation of the industry, this will not happen, will it? Therefore, we must also be able to guarantee, through active employment policies, vocational training and training, above all continuing and occupational training, these tools which enable us to accompany this industrial process, also from the point of view of the factor of work. And, finally, infrastructure and urbanizable soil – he also commented. It is true, the lack of infrastructure is evident, of the large infrastructure, but also of the infrastructure more at a little factory, more at a little plant. And there is also a lack of industrial sole, against which we must note at these moments, because precisely there is a process of relocation of production to Europe, which makes us attractive from the point of view of investments, which asks us only to be able to make investments, and we have an obvious lack, above all of public sole. And, therefore, this is one of the elements that it is not possible to act on it, because we come from where we come from, but which must actually be laid down as a fundamental element of the national pact for industry. And finally, the fifth is – this one hasn't talked about it, but I think it's also important – which is finance and business size. 99,8_percent of the country's business fabric are peppers; this obviously leads to a certain character from the entrepreneurial point of view, from the point of view of innovation, from the point of view of the connection between business directions and workers in the country, but this generates certain shortcomings that make us... – for example, you were commenting on Alstom's case, right? – so it makes us that sometimes there are commands, there are possibilities, there are projects that we can get there on the coast because of the size or the muscles of our companies. Therefore, this must also be an element that we must be able to put on the table and we must be able to work from a rational point of view and without any urgency. In any case, these are the five axes with which the national pact for industry will be structured, which, I repeat, does not want to be purely literature but it has to be a truly executed program that we want to finish filling out at the end of the year in order to be able to sign the coming year. Because..., and in this there is a consensus, which has been expressed enough in the committee of Parliament and in this House, to re-industrialize the country; there is a will, I would say – I do not know if it affects the conjunct of the chamber, but a vast majority – to want to re-industrialize the country, because we are aware that it is the sector that generates the most quality, the most backward jobs, and that is itself a tractor element of the conjunct of the economy. In fact, the temporality rate is of the disset_per_cent to the industry and the conjunction of the rest of the economic sectors is of the twenty-two_per_cent. Therefore, this statement of the most expensive and well-paid jobs, because the hourly labour cost is, in the case of industry, twenty-four euros; twenty-two to the rest of the sectors. Let's keep talking, huh? In any case, we start from this consensus, to resolve the dilemma in the line of leadership and the national pact for industry as the fundamental element. And then, if I may, I will also enter into some of the concrete, or more specific, themes of determined industrial projects that you have commented on, such as Nissan's case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.5.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.6.0	Well, thank the counselor for his intervention. I see that somehow we understand that there is a real dilemma between accompanying and leading, and that it is in the leadership's position. Congratulations! There is no dilemma between consensus and leadership: one can lead with consensus; one cannot lead without consensus. This is not a dilemma. Yes, there is a dilemma between adapting or transforming. We can lead, but we can lead an adaptation of the current Catalan industry or we can bet to transform the material bases on which our Catalan industry today sits. Today, the world has changed a lot, and our Catalan industry is in this changing world. And today the automotive sector is in crisis in Catalonia, and it is an important sector, it is one of the most important sectors in Catalonia: the automotive sector, the chemical sector and the agri-food sector – the agri-food sector is the first industrial sector in Catalonia, by the way. The three of them are in crisis. The automotive sector, for reasons I think everyone knows, and it's a global crisis where our industry will be positioned. The agri-food sector, too; the land-intensive, water-intensive agri-food sector, with huge negative externalities, but with difficult problems, too, to adapt to these negative externalities that is generated in a changing world. We have, here, problems. And three-quarters of the same will pass with the chemical sector, highly intense in energy consumption. These are problems we have. We can adapt these industrial activities to what is happening around us..., or we transform the material bases that allow us to have a different industry, an innovative industry, an industry on different energy bases, an industry with not only the capacity to supply the material needs of Catalonia but also to internationalize. But it will internationalize in the measure that I also act for Catalonia. We have, therefore, dilemmas. And then here, in these dilemmas, is where we have to see what the government does or wants to do to lead it. Why is it certain that there will be a need for funding, certainly, but in these needs for funding the government what does it do? Accompanya leads you? Will the government take share ownership when public aid is needed, when lending or backing is needed? Or will the government simply be to attend to critical situations of some or other helping companies, avalanche? Or is it a change in ownership to ensure that this company is not just out of business, but is it betting on strategic industrial transformations? What does the government plan to do, for example, with the mechanical workshop sector? Because, of course, when we talk about the crisis in the automotive sector, we are not talking only about Nissan or SEAT, we are talking about the quantity and quantity of small mechanical workshops that need to be adapted to change; we are talking about dealerships; we are talking about thousands and thousands of jobs and thousands and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises that need to be transformed here, move 'off to a different pattern of mobility. What's the lead they think they're doing here? What do you think, for example, about public transport policies? Do we want public transport to be a tractor element also of strategic changes in our country's industry? Based on what management strategies in public transport fem, we would be betting on energy-generation models as well as not. Are we talking about hydrogen? Are we talking about conditioning public transport to Catalonia from Catalonia based on hydrogen as fuel? If we do this, we may attract investments to make hydrogen, we may attract investments to generate activity, to generate, say, this fuel. If we do not say what public transport is to do, others will not come, because the investments are not only because we ask them to come, not only because we place them only in their abyss, but also because we have expectations of economic activity in their abyss, and to put those expectations of economic activity in their abyss we have to say where we want to go, we have to make clear where we want to go in the country. We talk about trains, we talk about other things, we can talk about more things, but in the end we can see this leadership, we can certainly lead it from the consensus but the government has to play tractor, it has to do tractor because precisely these investments come with this strategic horizon. He stratified that, if we define it from 2022 to 2025, there is nothing to do, court-terminist, enterprises that adapt. Either we go to a national pact for industry 2022-2030 with great stratifications and great industrial transformations, or the industrial conversion will come but will come to make this an industrial desert. And I'm not talking, because I don't have time, about industrial imbalance in the territory. We must also give paper to the territory, we must balance the territory from the point of view of industrial activity in Catalonia. And the government can also lead this by giving competence and ability to act in the territories in the management of strategic industrial policies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.7.0	Then, the word has the advisor Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.8.0	Thank you, President. Leader, insists the deputy. Indeed, leadership, a leadership that in full 21st century can only be based on consensus and above all cross-cutting. You talk about the medium and the long term; the medium and the long term is impossible if this is a thing of a single political formation, not just of a single government. So there's got to be this obvious political cross-cutting, huh? , to prioritise an element that for us is fundamental, that is the reindustrialisation of the country. And this priority, how is it determined? It's usually determined not only by asking questions and answering questions to Parliament but above all by the assumptions, huh? And in this sense, as you well know, there is an increase of 28,8_per_cent in the scope of Enterprise and Work, of the assumptions of the department, over the middle of the rest of the departments of the Government of the Generality. Therefore, this is a priority not only obviously for this advisor but for the joint execution, and in which we obviously agree. So, what are you supposed to use in what? And above all, we say, with a tool that you somehow put here on the table, which is this capacity for industrial participation, for public participation in certain enterprises. And in this sense, we have already explained in the committee that our intention is to advance, that it is a much needed instrument from this point of view, not only is it a lender of last resort, that it is basically what he has done so far, with a lot of good sense and a lot of good line, because this has allowed us to save certain businesses that were in a very delicate situation, and this means preserving jobs, but we do not just want it to be pro-active and that, therefore, it also becomes an investor of first resorts, which means that we can participate in those industrial projects that we need to be strategic and that are positive for the country's territory and community. With transformative logic, of course, with transformative logic that has to include all the subsectors of the industry. You have commented on the three, say, which generate more GDP and more exports: chemistry, automotive and agri-food. In all, obviously, a process of transformation has to occur. Probably where it's more obvious or more urgent, we could say so, it's in the automotive sector, which is probably living a transition process faster than any other subsector. And from this point of view, precisely, we, aware of this, among the parallel work of the National Pact for Industry, are setting up a transition office for the automotive and mobility sector, to draw up what country strategies we need to continue to successfully complete this transition process. With concrete actions. To the band of this office, they know perfectly well that we are in the bidding process of the Professional Training Centre of Martorell, a tool that must be instrumental for the reskilling of workers in the sector. We are working with an ecosystem of innovative entrepreneurs around green mobility, which generate a new paradigm also from an industrial point of view to our country, where we have been the spearhead at the European level of the sector during the 20th century, which we want to follow in the 21st century, with the new paradigm, transformed, effectively; not modified, not matified, not changed, but transformed, because this transformation is absolutely necessary. It's transformed that we also have to do based on reindustrialization projects like Nissan's. They know perfectly well that we have been working together in the Free Zone, with the State, with the unions and with the same direction. And the message we need to do here is a message to the workers and workers, obviously, of constant work. The unions know this, the business committee knows this, but they also claim that Nissan exercises its share of responsibility, and that Nissan, now more than ever, is at the height of the moment and of the three-thousand workers and their families. A process of reindustrialization of these characteristics is not easy, and you know it perfectly well. And a lot of factors must be given so that it can culminate successfully, more in this case, where there are different fishes. There are many very interesting projects with added value for the country that we need to know how to put into practice, and many months ago we are working and working tirelessly until this can culminate successfully, that we are convinced that it can culminate successfully if everyone, I repeat, is at the height of the circumstances, not just the Administration, not only the French Zone, not just the unions, but also especially the Nissan enterprise, that we must understand that we are immersed in a process of reindustrialisation and transition of a sector that is key for our country. Thank you very much, Congressman. I am convinced that, as this is a matter of concern and concern to us, we will have the opportunity to continue to speak to it with questions or with the format that I agree with. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.9.0	Let us turn to the new item on the agenda, the question to the Government on tourism policies, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[Question to the Government on tourism policies]] [[300-00081/13]] It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies, I think it's indisputable, isn't it? , the pes of tourism to the Catalan economy; sense of doubt, a sector that has been one of the most punished for the pandemic and that still, with greater or lesser measure, is still paying its consequences. For example, today we know that more than forty hotels in Girona province have set themselves for sale precisely because of the crisis generated by the covid. Tourism has normally been identified with the accommodation, but its value chain is much wider and has direct, indirect and indirect impacts on the very important economy. Therefore, it is a complex activity, with a very large and cross-cutting value chain with respect to economic activity. When we talk about tourism, we also talk about gastronomy, commerce, sports, nature, landscape, plagiarism, culture, heritage, restoration. By the way, speaking of restoration, I stop improvising, please; I stop improving. The catering sector doesn't deserve the one that went on selling past with the covid passport. They don't deserve it at all. After having to prepare all the logistics in a hurry and currents in order to be able to ensure to comply with the new regulations, it now turns out that the digital state structure makes sharp for all bands and we have to start its application. Actually, they don't deserve it. Catalonia is, without doubt, a top-level tourist destination, but it will be necessary to make a clear bet for tourism if we want to follow a competitive destination in a globalized and competitive world, where we have to compete with other destinations as many within the State as..., that every time they are more prepared and they are more competitive, right? Mirin, we were the first tourist destination in the State and the second in Europe, and we said we were. In Catalonia, the sector accounts for more than 12 per cent of GDP and generates more than 400,000 jobs; we have almost 80,000 businesses and more than 1 million beds. Obviously, this is data from the year 2019. In Catalonia, but above all in Barcelona, the tourist activity depends on a very high percentage of the foreign visitor. In fact, two_of_each_three euros are generated annually by the tourism provided by the foreigner. In change, we see how we are losing competitiveness in this 2021 respect other destinations of the State, and that worries us and much. Miri, this year 2021, if we take the accumulated number of tourists who have visited us until August, we carry 2,8_millions; the year 2020, in the midst of the pandemic, the year passed, was 3,2_millions. I mean, we're carrying a 12,5_per_cent less tourists than the year passed. In change, to the Balearic Islands, this year 2021, 3.8_million tourists until August; that is to say, 1_million more than in Catalonia. The year 2020, the year passed, 1.4_million. That's to say, bring a 270_per_cent more tourists this year than last year. In summary, the year 2019 we surpassed them in 3,2_million tourists; the year 2020, the past year, we surpassed them in 1,8_million, and this year we are 1_million under the Balearic Islands. And, in short, it still seems to indicate that this year 2021 we would no longer be the first tourist destination of the State, both on behalf of tourists and at its expense. Cal, that's why I said it before, a clear and strong bet in favor of tourism, a bold and determined bet. We have a great opportunity with the future new law that the government wants to push. We celebrate the will and interest of the current government to review and make a new law of tourism in Catalonia, right? But we are also concerned, to us and to an important part of the tourism sector, that, opening the debate around this law, the government is not strong enough and has ended up taking up the postulates of its members, both of investment and of assumptions; that the government has ended up taking up the report of these political forces in relation to tourism. Let's hope not. I count on us if we want to strengthen, modernise, give a new boost to the tourism sector; if we want to promote a more sustainable and responsible tourism, a tourism aligned with the 2030 agenda and with the objectives of sustainable development. I count with us if what they want is to provide the tourist sector with the most muscle, to provide the necessary resources because we follow a competitive and first level tourist destination. It does not seem so with the proposal of assumptions that they have presented, one precisely lowers the game of tourist promotion and apologizes with the downgrading of the recaptancy of the tourist tax. We believe that a review of the tax law on stays in tourist establishments, the ill-named tourist tax, because it is not a tax, is a tax. We already agree that it is necessary to generate economic resources based on tourism activity, but we understand that it is necessary to update the scope of application of this tax, the methodology of recaptancy and distribution, to update the criteria and the governing bodies of this fund. Therefore, to focus on a new law, as from the first moment, to have very clear who is the object; it is to say, to ask us what are the fundamental objectives that we are looking for with this law. The new law, under our point of view, should start from a focus on the future of tourism in Catalonia and not from a simple revision of the current law. It has to be legislated forward to time, and more so in a sector that, in the end and in the end, is the reflection of a certain type of society. In times of change, like the current ones, the tourism changes and the institutions we have to advance to these changes, predicts 'it to integrate them. It would be a mistake not to take into account that reality is very changing, not just for what it does to demand, but the instruments it uses, the intermediation systems, the tastes and customs that are imposing, the incidence of unpredictable factors and that these changes cannot face with the tools of the past. Digitalization, research and innovation provide us with a whole series of opportunities in planning, ordering, management and tourism promotion. It is absolutely essential to establish a new model of tourism governance. We need to move from traditional tourism to talking about the visitor's economy; a much broader and richer concept for destination and also from the political, economic and social point of view. Currently, the tourist activity, which was instrumental in getting out of the crisis of 2018, and which had historically welcomed all the offerings and congratulations, is now a questionable activity, not only on the part of the citizenry, but also from the political perspective and as a model of development to a future. We, Mr. Counselor, are proposing a national pact for tourism. Push it, you don't have to. The sector will appreciate it. The sector needs it. Count on us to enrich this debate, to redefine the tourism model for our country. And I'm done, Counselor. We invite you to promote a debate that respects, obviously, as it cannot otherwise be, the diversity of positions and interests, and which aims to ensure the continuity and transformation of the tourism sector as a strategic activity for the country, sustainable and responsible. Catalan tourism has a unique opportunity to become an economic activity of the 21st century. Enjoy it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.11.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now you have the word to answer the business and work advisor, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.12.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, tourism, not to say, is a key element in the country's economy, fourteen_per_cent of GDP, seven_per_cent of employment; therefore, a fundamental element that explains to us historically, but that is above all one of the key strengths of economic growth, job creation and the competitiveness of the country in its own years. And as long as we're talking about ciphers, to measure the size of tourism, I'd like to go over some of the ciphers that explain what's happened or how we've been acting in the last few months. Because, indeed, we come from the twenty-month period of covid, with various situations during these twenty-months, but which have particularly affected the tourism sector in denial. Not in a homogeneous way throughout the country, of course, have more suffered those fates that depend more, that depend more on international tourism. Therefore, those areas where, lastly, the reduction of social interaction and above all the reduction of the possibility of travel have affected more directly. And that is why, in this first phase of the legislature, assuming what the Government of the Generality had done before, and in particular the Department of Enterprise, what we have done, of course, is to seek to help all the economic sectors most affected by the restrictive measures arising from being in front of the covid and, in particular, of course, the tourism sector. In fact, in concrete terms, we have allocated 54_million aid to the tourism sector..., 4_million euros of specific aid to the sector, to the help group to self-employed people and to companies for their solvency. Therefore, we have directed an important part, an important bulk of the aid, precisely, to this sector, which, as we have said before, is indeed the most affected. In fact, together with aid to the economic sectors and the population most affected by the covid, we have allocated 182_euros per person to Catalonia, while the average in the State is sixty_euros per person. And to measure what is the effort that the Government of the Generality has made in all these months. Therefore, I said: first phase, seek to help those who have suffered the most. But also looking at medium and above all long terms. It is not enough to try to respond in a practical way to what has happened to us in a conjunctural way, but we must also look at the structural aspects of tourism in our country and try to generate the necessary instruments to ensure that in the future we can give answers more effectively and thus generate more guarantees. And from this point of view, a few weeks ago, a couple of months ago, as you know and as you have commented on in your turn, the preliminary memoir of the elaboration of the tourism law was approved. A tourism law that we have been changing in this room in a concrete way in different aspects, but there has not been a holistic approach, we could say so, to the law and, therefore, there has not been the consequent process of reflection around the sector, which is absolutely necessary at these times, to face also the transformation of the model. When we talk about the transformation of the product model, we also talk about tourism. Because it is true that we come from 2019, a year of memory; we come from the year in which we were most visitors of our history. As in the recent history, we say, of what we have data and what we can calibrate this. 2019. But already at those times we identified a series of structural questions that we need to know how to solve with this new model. A new model which, as I said, is based on the law and which is based on a national commitment to responsible tourism. That's pretty much what you were claiming, the national pact you were claiming, huh? In fact, we already announced that the law in any case was to be the final point, say so, huh? , or the consequence of this national commitment for a responsible tourism model that involves the group of actors in the sector, with whom, of course, there is a constant dialogue, but also with the political formations represented here, which tend to have the opportunity also to influence the law, that what needs to be created is precisely these poles or trampolins that allow us to define the new model based on the response to those shortcomings that we know are and that are inherent in the current model and that they have to see with the problems of concentration or the problems derived, also, from the precariousness of certain places of work in the sector, and those that we must face if, obviously, we want a new sector that is more sustainable, more responsive to the tourism sector, as well as to the people in the sector, as well as the industry. And from this point of view we want to address what we, from the Department, do not identify the differences from: how we deseasonalize, how we deconcentrate, how we generate a tourism of more quality, than I mean more expense. Therefore, this is what we need to lay in the law and this is what we want to define together with the sector. Meanwhile, at the moment we have the assumptions of 2022, which have already set a certain lever of change in this sense. Some assumptions, that it is true that in the general cost of tourism, if we speak with reference to the previous year, there is a descent, but that it is a descent derived from the downfall of entrances for the state tax in tourist establishments. That it was not an effort made by the Government of the Generality with its own resources, but that it was the finalist resources that came from the income from the tax and that were intended to promote the tourist destination. And despite this €39_million drop, what we have done with the Department's own resources is complement the €10_million line. Therefore, the effort that is made is these 10_million euros, they are aware of the situation: of one band, the flood of entrances, and, of the other, the need to continue helping the sector. I remember what I gave to the principle: EUR 54 million in direct aid to the sector. We want to follow the line of supplementary until where possible and until where the Government of the Generality can the sector and for this reason this effort of 10_million euros in the assumptions of 2022. Because we are aware of the need to address the transformation from now on. With all the tools that we have in the abst, those that are close to us, with proper foundations, and those that can come to us with third-party foundations, as for example with European foundations. Third, because they come from the European institutions, from the European Union, but they are, of course, resources that we have also generated from Catalans and Catalans. The Next Generation are a very obvious lever of change in this sense, and that's given now, it's not given in two, it's given in three, it's given in these moments, and it's now that we need to know how to take advantage of it. And, indeed, they are an element with a very great potential. And probably from the management of the Next Generation it is precisely that who does not have the weight of tourism in our country is the Government of the State and not us. The GDP of the tourism state, from the tourism sector to Catalonia, is 20-i-u_per_cent. The transfer through the Next Generation is from the deu_per_cent. He has told me about other tourist destinations, other communities, other realities, but the question that affects us – and that you should in some way also rebel – is that, while representing the twenty-i-u_per_cent of the tourism GDP of the state as a whole: two_per_cent of the total of the Next Generation funds, which, in fact, are the real change lever of a tourism model that we obviously agree with, that we need to know how to transform because it has different challenges and needs, today, than it did two years ago, fifteen years ago or at the time the law was drafted. Therefore, from our point of view the effort has been maximum. First, with these, we could say so, palliative cures at the more conjunctural level, but they are aware that what we need is to address this process of structural transformation in which we are absolutely not only predisposed to achieve. We'll keep talking in the second round. Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.13.0	In the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, thanks for your answer, huh? Actually, you..., and I recognized the impulse and courage to pull a new law of tourism into Catalonia, but it was obvious, it was consistent that it was worth it, wasn't it? , the current law is 2002 and is therefore completely out of date and out of date. But I want to make a difference, because you wanted to spend a little bit of points, didn't you? Between what is law and what is a national tourism pact. In the end, the law does not cease to be a _marc, so, normal and legal, and I repeat it, counting on us, and, in fact, with the Director General we have been able to speak to it. But we also claim it, and not just us, huh? , the tourism sector that came to compare with the Commission of Enterprise and Work to make a balance of what had been the tourist season... Therefore, Foment, Pimec, also, therefore, the Association of Rural Accommodations, UGT and Workers Commissions claimed it a national pact for tourism, and you do not talk about it. And I think they don't talk about it because they don't want to confront it, they don't want to face it, because, in the end, a pact means, therefore, a pact that is the fruit of an agreement, right? , between political parties, between the Government, between social economic agents, with the tourism sector. And I think you don't want to confront him because, first of all, in the government, you certainly have different visions, and then you don't want to confront him with your partners, neither investment nor assumptions. You were talking about data. I will not be there at all, but it is true that with the data that I have given you before I respect the fact that there are other tourist destinations that are passing through us and that this year we would certainly no longer be the first tourist destination, both in the name of tourists and on the expense that they generate these tourists, so, as much as in quality, and this too is already starting to be much more worrying. We believe that we need to give a new boost to tourism promotion here in Catalonia, don't we? , and, therefore, we also propose to update the law of the Catalan Tourist Agency. I think we need to redefine, we need to rethink the promotion strategy. We need to talk, too, and surely redefine a new tourism governance in Catalonia, but also a new governance for what it does to the Catalan Tourist Agency. And we also have to study, don't we? , and delve into our potential markets, too. And here I remember that one of the first questions I asked in this plenary was precisely respect for the lack of promotion that is made to a market as potential as the market... the rest of Spain, right? And here we are losing competitiveness. Miri, the year 2017, we represented a disset_per_cent of the tourists of the rest of Spain who visited us, and now, 2019, we are in a 13,8, and here I honestly believe that we have not done our dues well, have we not? If we want to be a competitive destination, we need to renew our attractions progressively and sustainably, right? Miri, it's been more than a decade since there's no new attraction. No significant attraction has been generated in Catalonia with international attraction power. The last was Port Adventure. Yes, he has worked at conventions like Mobile, he has also worked at musical events like Sonar or Spring Sound, but he has not made an effort from the public sector, as surely not from the private sector, because he has certainly also sought to maximize the return of his investments, but I think he has not made a real effort, has he not? , to work in a coordinated and proactive way, therefore, to increase the added value of our offer as a destination. We have not been able to attract operators and reference marks to enrich the tourist experience of our visitor, our tourist. There are no projects and proposals, no on the table, are there? But they're on the air and they're questioning questions on the part of the same government and its partners. Therefore, I believe, sincerely, that the trend has been and is one of a management of public resources more aimed at not changing, than at promoting ambitious and forward-looking changes. I believe that Catalonia must break with this trend. I think they might be more ambitious and braver. Thank you very much, President and Councillor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.15.0	The word has the advisor Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.16.0	Thank you, Congressman. All the ambition of the world. In fact, I said that I, from the start, and at the beginning of the legislature, you could ask me this question, and the first answer already indicated who was the way we want to go, which is the construction of this new tourist model. We have been and continue to feel a tourism power at European and world level, and we want to continue to feel, however, with the paradigms of the 21st century, which are different because we need to address much greater transformations of foundations than those of the 20th century. And, in this sense, we must be able, effectively, to build this great consensus around the new model with the agents involved and from a political point of view as well. You said: "Keep up and make a national pact. The question is not the formula, but what consensus is generated. This agreement for a new model of tourism that we plant, is said agree, is said national pact, the question is five great consensuss we generate around the model. And we put some on the table that we seem to identify correctly. We want proper regulation. The law is important, precisely, because we have been making punctual changes for many years, which has probably solved concrete problems, but they did not draw a horizon of the future. Therefore, a comprehensive and modern regulation of the sector. Address tourism planning well done and from the perspective of the country's globality, and with the synergies that can be established from the different tourist destinations and the different territories. Probably a network job that we need to improve, and a lot, from this point of view. Therefore, this is also an item we want to put on the table. The promotion of sustainable tourism. It's not just because it's an environmental and ecological empire, but precisely because it's a good part of the visitors to international markets who claim that we're also responding to this. And when they sort out their fate, consciously or unconsciously, this is an element they value. What is the answer that is given to the tourist infrastructure of the eventual, hypothetical destination respects the demands in the fight of the climate change. We also want to generate a new model of governance. The public sector, the private sector, which allows us to draw even better and more intensively what common strategies we take, promotion, management, regulation, etc. Therefore, we can work on a consensus that should not only be established at the time of defining who are the master lines of this new model, but then, in managing the same model, there is also a joint governance model. As I said before, we have made a very important effort to identify these needs and we begin to put them into practice in the 2022 assumptions. That I insist on, there has been a reduction of 29_million euros in revenue from the tourist tax, that if we want to look at another side, but that there are, and that therefore, it is a situation that we have to face and that we have to manage, and that is why we have made this effort of 10_million euros that they deploy in assumptions that, in principle, are distributed in different programs, the four-foot program for the digitalization of the tourism marketing of Catalonia. You were talking about promotion, what do we do to promote, what instruments do we have? The four countries, the digitalization of the marketing, 10_million euros; the promotion of the seasonalization, the deconcentration, the diversification of the offer, there are 3_million euros; the great tour of Catalonia, program that, in other words, fits into these new dynamics of promotion and information gathering of tourists, 200,000_euros; or the CRM strategies, 300,000_euros. Finally, we provide 2,900,000_euros for tourist promotion centres, and we allocate 1,800,000_euros to the Catalonia web. Like, it's also a promotion channel. In short, for this 2022 there is an additional effort in promoting the destination, because we come from where, and effectively, we come to recover the activity, the economic recovery in the field of tourism. And we do, not just focusing on what is needed in the short term, but also planning what we need to do in the medium and long term, a way we're sure to find ourselves on, because if we're claiming courage, I'm convinced that for you they won't stay to help us also bring ideas to the transformation of a model that, I insist, has been key during the 20th century and we want to continue to feel it in the 21st century. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.17.0	Let us move on to the order of the day, the question to the Government on labour rights, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Interview with the Government on labour rights]] [[300-00083/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.18.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, Workers, Workers of Parliament, today we are making a monogram of the Commission of Enterprise and Work. It's almost as if we're making an appearance, but it's good that we're talking about these issues because, besides, they're issues that concern the country and that, in effect, we don't have to worry about ourselves as parliamentary groups and representatives of the people of Catalonia. Let's talk about the Labour Inspectorate, which, with regard to the two previous questions, has not referred to them, and I also understand, as is the case with the Gallego company, that this is also one of the issues that concerns him and concerns him, but I think it is very important that we do so. What we're talking about is the Labour Inspectorate, what we're talking about is the inspectorship, which we're talking about, precisely, how the Labour Inspectorate also helps to revalue businesses, how the Labour Inspectorate also helps to make good pedagogy of good business practice. And we must also do so because there are companies in our country that do not have a good business practice. There are companies in our country that violate labour rights to achieve economic benefits. There are companies in our country that are dedicated to taking advantage of the situation of social vulnerability to achieve economic benefits. And there are companies in our country that directly exploit their workers, whom they do not consider to be workers, in order to obtain gains and distribute dividends. And these companies are no reference model for anyone. The inspector's action brought forth, in fact, gave high to 11,013 workers of Glovo, who were dispensers, false autonomies, the years 19-20. 16,2_million euros that Glovo had not contributed to Social Security, and that the inspector's action has made this 16,2_million euros a high gift to Social Security. This was one of the great campaigns, precisely, respecting these companies, these apps that under the background of start-ups and technological innovation, what they're doing is precarising the world of work. These apps, also Deliveroo, Uber Eats, were the object of this inspector action, and Amazon, for example, four thousand bogus freelance workers who also had to give high to social security. This action demonstrates, precisely, the need for the Work Inspection. This action clearly demonstrates that the Labour Inspectorate helps to revalue the business fabric of our country, helps to revalue business practices, helps to revalue both workers and their own business directions and economic models of economic development with social responsibility. Because in our country, the industrial model, the economic model for our country, we want you to have social responsibility, and to take on their share, which they are responsible for. That is why, Counselor, I would like you to refer in your turn also to the data of the Labour Inspectorate, to refer to the good task being done by the Labour Inspectorate, and from here also to aggravate the task of the Director General, the Light Fighter, who is doing an ingenious job, she and all her team in the lead, with very limited resources, being able to endure all this inspector action. Very limited resources, to which we also have to ask the State, because we know that in the matter of Labour Inspection it is the State that ends up enabling the number of effects that they can operate in Catalonia. And, therefore, this procedure, which is very slow, would need to have a thorough review so as to speed it up, so that the State will be far more effective in Catalonia, and so that we can reinforce this action of the Labour Inspectorate in our country. Because, in addition, it is an act for the company, for the business directions, as well as to provide security and value to the workers of our country. Because it's essence, it's the key to guaranteeing labor rights, because it's the key to ensuring the compliment of work risk prevention. And, in this sense, we also need to give a boost to successful business models, which are also because they treat workers as one more in this company, one more in their economic development. Which, for example, we are looking at in the following examples, and this past week one of the great labor conflicts has erupted, which before the deputy Gallego made reference to all the history we have had for a while, among many others, but perhaps the most remarkable, but as is the case with Mahle. Mahle's case is a paradigmatic case, a paradigmatic case of how labour law acts against the working class. A paradigmatic case of how a company does not involve itself nor does it find it necessary to involve itself in finding solutions to the conflict that challenges it, to the conflict that the table has. A case like Mahle, there is now a submitted ERO that affects 312 people out of a total of 342 staff, plus the fifty workers who are part of subcontracted companies and who also operate on the same plant, Mahle's two plants in Vilanova and Geltrú. One case, Mahle's, that from here we also convey all the support of the Republican Left Group in its struggle with all the support of the workers and workers, who, in fact, today have gathered the committee with the business direction to see if they find solutions. One case, Mahle's, which is paradigmatic because we find that, on the one hand, we are asking for help from the Next Generation fund and, on the other, we are holding a plant in Vilanova and Geltrú; a different tank, because, in effect, it is an ERO that affects 312 people, and, therefore, leaves out thirty, but it is the thirty that have a major age and that, therefore, their working life will possibly end at the same company, but when their employment contract ends, when their contractual relationship with Mahle ends, that company will end, because there will be no rest. Therefore, the value of labour law to compromise the enterprises of our country to not have a red captive to be able to leave, so that it does not have a red captive to be able to empower itself in front of the struggle of the workers and the workers who defend their places of work. Therefore, neither modernization nor adaptation nor other euphemism: derogation from labor reforms, already. Because until labor reforms are removed, this country will continue to paint, day after day, situations like which Mahle's workers are now patenting themselves. Therefore, derogation already, neither modernization nor adaptation, derogation, because it is not certain that repealing labour reforms will be left without labour legislation, because it is not certain that repealing labour reforms will introduce us into labour legislation. Repealing the 2010 Labour Reforms of the Socialist Party and 2012 of the Urgent People's Party is essential and unnegotiable for the working class of our country. Therefore, remove them without any kind of subterfuge. Why? Because the labour authority does not have the capacity to intercede in labour disputes before they arrive to arise, because the labour authority does not have the capacity to interfere in labour disputes until the employment regulation consignment is laid down or a tanker is laid. And it is essential that the labor authority can influence it, can enter the media and can provide solutions. And that businesses have the regulatory obligation to bring solutions to the conflict they are generating. It's essential that we get out of here. It is essential that the labour regulations of our country go in favour of the working class, instead of being against the working class itself. And here too, the process of reindustrialisation is vitally important. Reindustrialisation processes, counselor, which you have also exposed and which, in your turn, I hope you can continue to deepen. Reindustrialisation processes that are essential, because where there is an industry there cannot be a logistics centre, because where there is an industrial plant there cannot be a logistics centre, because Catalonia will not be Europe's warehouse, because Catalonia needs added value. Catalonia needs to give value to its workers and workers and Catalonia needs decent wages. That is why it is important that the industrial development of our country also be coordinated with all the agents involved and that, therefore, it also be coordinated in a national pact for industry which, I am sure, will be successful. Because it will also be accompanied by the necessary funding and because it will also be accompanied by those measures agreed between all the agents, who are really actors in the industrial development of our country. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.19.0	Then, the word has the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.20.0	Actually, Congressman, it's okay for business and work to raise so many questions like this late in Parliament, huh? It is impossible to build a vital project based on precariousness. It is impossible to look to the future and lay down a certain life if it is based on the presence of precarious working conditions, on working conditions that are not what we want for our country and for our society. In fact, Republicans base themselves on an ideological substrate that fundamentally defends the right to the search for happiness. They say it was Jefferson who included this in the declaration of the United States, but, in fact, it is a fundamental element of the ideological corpus, of the principles, the values of the republic project, the search for happiness. But to look for happiness it is necessary to have vital minimums that allow this life project to be built. And this, I insist, is not built on job insecurity, it is not built on certain labour abuses that are occurring in our country and that we must manifest, not only from a point of view of the Treball Inspectorate – now I will talk about it – but also from a political point of view, because in the end what we are moving is a certain social model that we do not want in our country. And from this point of view, actually, the inspection... You asked me: "Tell me about the Labour Inspectorate. Indeed, the Labour Inspectorate, led by the Director General, the Light Battler, which is doing an excellent job, is a fundamental element for the construction of a quality work model in our country. And, in fact, what we want to do is empower her, this inspection. We need to empower her. Any potential country that we emmirald and from which we extract a particular model of labour relations also has the tools necessary to have a powerful labour inspection. And from this point of view, I insist, we want to empower it. And we've done it, in fact, we've already done it with six inspectors and a sub-inspector who've helped make the instruments that the Labour Inspectorate has. But we must, in this sense, continue to claim to the State that it expedites the provision of the Inspectors and Sub-Inspectors Task Force. Precisely because we have the will, we have the political determination, we also have the ability from a presuppositional point of view to be able to deal with it, as the State does its part of the work. Therefore, we continue – and we insist – to demand that the speed of the body cover, which we are already prepared to expand, is speeding up. Actually, we did. In any case, this complaint to the State is, unfortunately, a secular complaint and we would like not to go repeatedly, because I would like to say that we have the skills in the field of work; we want all of them, obviously, as in so many other areas of daily management, to improve the living conditions of Catalans and Catalans. Precisely because of this, some of us are independent, because we believe that, having these tools, we would be able to improve the material living conditions of our fellow citizens. Also in the field of work. That's why we also want the skills in this aspect. Totes. But in particular, for example – and you mentioned this – not only do they have to do with the labour inspection, but also, for example, for the administrative authority as the labour authority of the employment regulation shippers, which is a complaint that we do not make from here and that we do not from a point of view want to have a fish that is still more relevant in the field of political decisions. It's not a question of power. Precisely, when we meet with many of the business committees involved in a labour dispute for a closure, a relocation, in short, for an employment regulation dispatcher, they say that, obviously, they lack the Generality's ability to influence these processes. That's lost with the 2012 labor reform. And precisely because of this, for this and other aspects, but fundamentally because of this, we rightly claim, as you said, the repeal of the 2012 labour reform, because this was a tool, this was an instrument that the Government of Catalonia had at its disposal in order to be able to influence these processes. And now we've lost this capacity for influence, for taxation. And we find ourselves with lawsuits – you were commenting on Mahle's – in which he notices twenty-four or forty-four hours of tank anticipation for two months from now. A situation that is impossible to manage from a point of view of the Public Administration, if we do not have the necessary tools as to be able to condition it. And when we talk to the corporate committees, when we talk to the unions, obviously, in complaints, as we claim, this ability to intervene. Because the direct dialogue that makes it the Government of Catalonia, it is not the State, in these processes. Who sits at the negotiating table in the business settlement dispatch processes with the unions is the Government of Catalonia. It's the work of the Government of the Generality, I insist, and it's not the State. Therefore, we continue to demand this competence and, ultimately, the repeal of an employment reform, that of 2012, which took over our skills and ability to intervene in this sense. It cannot be that the Generality was left out of these proceedings. Why, obviously, in these processes of reindustrialisation, we, who are aware of the need – as we commented earlier with the Member of Parliament Gallego, huh? – to lead concrete processes that allow us to maintain the strength of industry in our economy, and to increase it, it is absolutely essential that we have the pro-active instruments, but also the instruments such as those of the ability to intervene in the dispatches of employment regulation. As is precisely the case, one of the ways in which we are working in parallel with the national pact for industry is in a protocol for action in reindustrialisation processes, precisely to have a working standard with all these processes that are in certain sectors, in this case, very specifically, in the automotive subsector – the examples that we have discussed with the transition process in the automotive sector – and, therefore, to have a working pattern in certain cases, which allows us to help preserve the workplaces of workers and workers, which in many cases after years and years or decades of work in a certain sector, are now found by a company to decide to close with an alternative margin that is impossible. That is why it is essential that we actually have the necessary tools. Since the Labour Inspectorate we have been calling on the State to agile the coverage of the body, the ability to intervene in the dispatches of occupation regulation, which also have the ability to intervene in the processes of reindustrialisation. In short, that the Public Administration of the Generalitat, that the Government of the Generalitat has the levers to be able to intervene in the defense of the places of quality work, in the worthy works, in the ability to generate a future of shared prosperity that also passes through this capacity of intervention in the field of work. Not only in the economic promotion, but also in the promotion of certain industrial projects that allow us to strengthen from this point of view, but also from the field of inspection and intervention in the field of work. So, in the end, those tools that we have at the bottom we apply, and we apply them with all the strength and efficiency we need, but at the same time, we continue to demand these skills that we have, that they get rid of the labor reform of 2012 and that they are essential to be able to help the workers of this country to maintain their place of work with dignity and quality. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.21.0	Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the deindustrialization of Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. [[Question to the Government on the deindustrialisation of Catalonia]] [[300-00086/13]] You have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.22.0	Thank you, President. Industry has traditionally been the driving force behind economic and social transformations. A country with industry is a rich country; that is, a country with work of different training, a country where it is easier to develop personal projects, to have work, to acquire a home and, of course, to form a family. Industry in Catalonia and Spain began at the end of the 19th century, and peaked in the mid-20th century due to economic and social policies, foreign investment and the arrival of resources from, for example, tourism. The beginnings were made possible by a very economic energy, by protectionist rules and by the investments of people with economic capacity. In Catalonia, as in other parts of Spain, for the mechanization of cotton; it started with the steam machine. The need for coal caused them to look for that cheap energy by going to the ports where coal arrived or, of course, by manufacturing industrial communities near the rivers to take advantage of their energy. In another order of topics, in infrastructure, in 1848 in Mataró is where the first railway line of Spain was created. That is, with energy, with investment, with infrastructure, with favorable standards and with a talent, industrial development in our house is possible and was possible, and it fostered a strong economy, as we have said, with work, with access to housing and with quality public services. We have been strong and competitive in many sectors: textiles, automotive, with different brands of tradition often Catalan, in elevators, chemical sectors, pharmaceuticals, furniture and, of course, in the large food industry. So what happened? For at the beginning of the 1980s the industrial sector represented almost thirty per cent, 28.6 per cent of national GDP, and now it is around sixteen; before they have commented that it is nineteen, depends on statistics. The sector is bleeding. That's a reality. The industry has lost its grip over the past four decades and has lost almost half its weight in the national economy. In Spain we are dragging away a loss of competitiveness in the European Union market and in the global market. De-industrialisation has taken place and we have moved from surplus with certain countries of the European Union to deficit. And with it, then, what do we have? Less work, less resources, more unemployed people and, of course, less public resources. We have become accustomed, in Catalonia, to having more than four hundred_ thousand unemployed. A barbarity. And in Spain around 4_million people looking for jobs and not finding them. So, we are increasing the public coffers to keep people, compatriots and, obviously, because we do not know how to rationalize spending, we generate more deficits every year and we accumulate more debt until, for example, in Catalonia at 80,000_million_of_euros. And all this why? Let us be honest: because we have crushed our industrial fabric. We have despised it; far from enhancing it, we have discriminated against it. And there are several reasons that have caused this industrial drift down, which, from our parliamentary group, we are going to summarise by eight plus one. The first is regulation. Spain cannot subject its companies to abusive regulatory or tax restrictions or remain silent in the face of a European Union trade policy that does not guarantee fair and fair competition with third countries. We have a regulatory fabric that makes it difficult to set up and maintain many companies. The administrative and legal framework in Spain must be simpler and more agile. And, of course, having seventeen regulations does not help that. Take advantage of the advantages of digitization to reduce administrations and bureaucracy, especially not with its ability to digitize because, as soon as they mount a website to download a certificate, it collapses and we can't go there, huh? But, in general, trusting in private initiative and the good doing of Catalans. We must bet on national market unity and make Spain an attractive place for reindustrialisation. Second, taxation. We have to be competitive, get away from the tax inferno. We have to raise money – of course we do – to maintain quality services in health, education, security and, of course, infrastructure. But we must strive radically to reduce the accessory, and I do not see it when we are debating the budget in Catalonia. We have too many millions of euros that we are throwing into the face of Catalans, who are paying taxes with a great deal of effort. [[Greetings.]] Laborally, another aspect. The obstacles imposed on national industry by the different globalist agendas have weakened our productive fabric, generating a progressive loss of businesses and jobs and a widespread reduction in wages. They compete in our shelves products manufactured by enslaving people, and that we can't afford, because our workers, then, we lower their wages, and that's not fair and they can't get to the end of the month. And on top of that, we charge their payrolls with a lot of taxes. Then we have the ecology of living room, unjust and miscarriage. We all want clean homelands, clean rivers and seas, clean air, of course, and healthy cities. But excuse me for telling you, it's hypocritical to demand our companies and our workers to make clean and then let products from China come in, which are polluting our rivers and our seas all day. She's totally unfair and hypocritical. [[Greetings.]] At the level of justice, justice must be more agile, with more means. We've got the commercial courts collapsing. The law of lateness must be applied effectively. The energy. They are not concerned and obsessed with energy sovereignty, and it is a priority, while third countries such as Morocco or China benefit from the relocation of power plants or plants, whose products and energy we import later, Spanish companies and products are stifled by our strict regulations and make their sectors virtually unviable. Spain must protect its national interests and its energy sovereignty, a cheap, sustainable, efficient and clean energy that ensures the future of businesses and the well-being of families. This is the basis of reindustrialisation in Catalonia and Spain. Seventh: innovation, development and training. That too is necessary. We need a free, demanding education system, good universities and good vocational training, obviously with public-private collaboration. We also need – eighth – infrastructure, and I don't go into details, but you and your partners don't help. They're allergic to development. We need to make the port more profitable, the rail corridor, because a good infrastructure network makes it very easy to install industries. And, of course, encourage industrial polygons. Finally, in Catalonia we have to add VAT to these problems. And there are not eight; it is eight plus one, the specialty of the house – with eight not enough –: we have the problem of instability and the expense caused by separatism, yes. The investment flees from the burnt containers and flees from the instability of the rupturist projects. Seven thousand companies fled, and many of them industrial. In short, in this inquiry we denounce that, during the last decades, after socialist, popular and separatist governments, there has been a growing relocation of companies that are moving to Asia. In Europe we lower wages, charge our companies with taxes and environmental requirements, and, while in Asia they bring their products here in clear unfair competition, crushing the environment and crushing workers in their businesses. And we reward them, we reward them without saying anything. When I hear here the inspection, the inspection, that is, do we crush our entrepreneurs with inspection, inspection, and let there be then on the same shelf a product that has been manufactured by crushing people and abusing children who manufacture under human conditions? What hypocrisy! [[Greetings.]] What hypocrisy! And that is why the future must be addressed. The Catalans, the Spanish have the ability, the ability to make everything. It does not serve what they produce, because they pollute and, as we have said, break the social rights that we have acquired and it has been very difficult for us to acquire. We must change industrial and energy policies for social justice, for respect for the environment and for ending the scourge of unemployment. In this respect, we will put forward a motion for proposals for changes to the industrial model which we hope will be supported, because, if not, they will obviously remain in evidence. Thank you very much. And then we'll go on if you want, counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.23.0	Then, the word has the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work, Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.24.0	Thank you, President. It is normal that you, who would want to go back and live a few decades in the past, fuck – do, forgive – a nostalgic exercise like what you have done. In any case, I don't know whether to say that I accept the invitation to make the historic rest or to say it in any other way. In any case, I would like to pay tribute to the history of Europe to explain, from our point of view, where we are today, why we are here today and above all what is the answer that is being given today from the European institutions and that is in the opposite, by luck, of what you propose and defend. Miri, Europe's period of most political and economic stability is based on a Keynesian response, from the point of view of economic policies, which also translates into great social agreements, a new social contract, signed for most of the social and political forces of Europe of the moment, which generate the foundations of the welfare state with which different generations of Europe have grown. Throughout Europe, less in the Spanish State, where the Faixist dictatorship did not participate in these consensuses, obviously, and therefore in these policies which were being implemented in Europe and which, I insist, allowed the period of economic and social growth and greater political stability in the history of the continent. These great consensuss, based on this Keynesian view of the response to the crises, went left and went on to introduce an alternative political proposal that ended up becoming a majority, mainstream, we could say so, above all from the eighties, starting with the neoliberal revolution in the United States, which has with Thatcher its most advanced student and which ended up imposing itself at the conjunct of the continent. A political reading of economic policies, I would say, that they were in the antipodes of what they represented at the time the answers that the political Europe found and that, in terms of industrial policy, because we are specifically talking about this, came to say and came to do what we have commented before the 'best industrial policy' is what does not exist. Therefore, let it be done, let it pass, with all the consequences and with all the letters of the neo-liberal expression that was imposed on the conjunct of governments during all these decades. And the point of this dynamic or trend is actually produced in 2008, with the financial crisis that saw the planet's conjunction – and also, obviously, we – and that was translated into concrete deregulation and detail, which is precisely what you ask, which is your political program, which we have listened to here, which we already know. Because it is true that he has made a rhetoric here that seems to empathize with the needs and concerns of the country's workers. This is what the extreme right does: to see in his public speeches, especially addressed to the most disadvantaged barrels of urban geography in all of Europe, what you say thinking about them. And in reality what is defending is the economic model that has most harmed the European popular classes and, therefore, Catalans, the last few years. What you want is to go back to 2008. And that's why they're talking about the agenda... I don't remember what he said, but he said something like "globalist agenda, when it comes to..., less European institutions, not because they're Europeans, that also, because today the majority speech, by lot, to political Europe is a speech that, unlike in 2008, is an expansive policy from the point of view of the reversal, from the point of view of the distribution of European funds, and, above all, great consensus to deal with the challenges Europe has, the planet and the conjunction of humanity and which are felt on the 2030 agenda, that you constantly insult every time you occur here at the Farist. That's what you hate. And that's exactly why they do this nostalgic exercise; that's why they would want to make a few decades back, because, in reality, their model is that, although the rhetoric here can be done because when the listener workers, Catalans and Catalans, and inferring from these statements, from these proclamations..., until there were some moments that raised the view, right? , as if you've got a headline, because I'm listening to these workers and workers and they think you're thinking about them; in fact, what they're raising is deregulation and detail. And we've seen where he brought us, that. You don't care about reindustrialisation policies. What matters to them is that certain economic and power sectors can have a margin, they can have a wide margin to do what they want. And it's the same if we contribute, or not, to responding to the climate change. It's the same if they generate more or less social inequalities. It's the same if this is to be seen with all the elements that today constitute reptes for the conjunction of humanity... less for you, for the extremes, eh? , for populist movements like you represent. But for the combination of humanity these challenges have to be faced, because they respond to the needs, too, of the European working class. But this, I insist, is absolutely the same for you. And we, in turn, are aware of the need for the best industrial policy to be a policy led, we say, by public administrations; that it takes the kingdoms of what is the model we want to promote: a model based on quality, well-remunerated, land-based work and which responds to this will of sustainability, resilience, digitalisation that the European institutions are putting forward, that sets up the joint political Europe and that forms part of the great political consensus that today, several decades after the European response to the Marshall Plan and these Keynesian policies, re-chair the political agenda of the different governments. And we in this sense also enter into this dynamic. And that is why we are drawing up the national pact for industry, because we are aware of the need to re-industrialize the country, not in the terms used in the 1980s, but based on a net, digitalised, sustainable industry, an industry that responds to expectations on the part of the citizens of this country who expect the answers we give postcovid to be able not only to face these problems we have, but to offer more guarantees and opportunities to their children and their daughters. We are immersed in this transformation of the product model, despite you; we are immersed in this will to change the very bases of the production system of this country to offer these guarantees that we have already commented on. And precisely from this perspective and from this perspective we want to seek these great consensuss through the national pact for industry, where you will neither be nor, frankly, if you hope, because indeed also from the national perspective, from the country, we continue to reproduce this scheme of the great social, economic agreements, which allow us to reindustrialize the country and the better of the material conditions of life of the workers and workers of Catalonia. In this we are absolutely predisposed, agitated; we are working. And in the same way that the welfare state, at a certain time, was built on these great political agreements, we, at our own scale, and in full 21st century, want to reproduce a working methodology that goes perfectly along – by lot – from the extreme right-wing approaches, of which you represent every time you appear in this Faristol. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.25.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.26.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for challenging. Thank you for your history classes, but I think you've done history classes just to get away... I think it's said in Catalan to get away from study, because you haven't entered industrial policies. It has not been clear to me whether you share the disease or whether you are a shift negator and do not believe that our industry is in crisis because of the policies we have been dragging forward over the past decades. There's a lot of unemployment and a lot of industry that's shut down, and I don't think you've just recognized it. Secondly, I believe that it is more challenging to us than to our industrial policy. And that flatters us, because it is a sign that fears us and fears the truths that we defend. Thirdly, it is not clear to me whether it shares the diagnosis of excessive bureaucracy, lack of market unity, excessive taxation. But, I mean, you've run away from study with Keynes and so on, and with your literature. That you defend a sustainable, net industry, that has become clear to me; but it is not credible, it is not credible because it does not denounce the invasion of Chinese products..., which respect nothing. No, don't do that with your arms. Don't you dare report it? Are you so afraid? Are they so friends of the communist dictatorship that they do not dare to denounce that they manufacture by exploiting people and polluting our planet? Does it hurt them so much that we tell them? Does it hurt so much? [[Greetings.]] Look, since VOX we're a long time in Parliament, we'll be told by the ushers, we'll be told by the camera staff, we're a long time in Parliament, but we're going a lot out too, we're going to industrial polygons, and we'll often visit people who call us, desperate, trying to maintain a factory, trying to concentrate factories to be competitive. But they say to us, "Listen, Joan, it's that when I make a white samarreta, of those that you carry, it's to me that the labor cost – that I want to respect, because we have to respect the labor costs – the cost of respecting the environment and not polluting the rivers, the cost of paying taxes, because we have to pay taxes... In the end, the samarreta cost twenty euros; and you see a samarreta of the Xina – and you don't denounce it – and at the cost of five, because you don't respect anything. But I'm clear. They won't criticize it, because it's a communist dictatorship; they won't denounce the unfair competition. And this is the drama. And lastly... and respect your only solution, after talking a lot about Keynes, you talk a lot about the National Pact of Catalonia. Of course, he won't find us; they won't find us because I've said it many times before, that the only country and birth of Catalans is called Spain; we defend the unitary market, the market of all Spain, we don't think about leaving, because it's our home, Catalonia is our home, and Spain is the home of all. And why, of course, when the Catalan industry has been strong is because it has also had the national market and the recovery of the Spanish State. Finally, counselor, I hope you have time to reflect and study our young man, when we bring him here the measures that we want to defend. And if you don't support it, it's because it's VOX. And if you don't support it because you don't like it, you'll be disqualified as an Industry Advisor. But in any case perhaps in the next debate it is you who are disqualified, the fruit of our criminal actions, the fruit of your disobedience. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.27.0	The word has the advisor Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.28.0	I was about to comment that I was missing the threat in his first intervention... [[Some applause.]] But you didn't disappoint me, Congressman; you didn't expect any less, did you? He didn't deceiv me, he's out at last, he's almost screwing his ass, but he's done with the threat, yes, sir. You have noses, not to mention another thing, which exactly you accused me of being a negator, say so, huh? As we have to see each other. Someone who systematically denies the global agenda, denies the 2030 agenda, denies the need to respond to the challenge that you all want, least of all you, who come here and tell us "negationist". Precisely, we are immersed, I repeat, in the transformation of the product model of the country in order to face these demands that respond to environmental needs, but also, and above all, of social and technological character, and that we have to address because it addresses everyone, and because they are necessary..., to give it answer, not only in terms of green answer, of ecological response, but also in terms of maintaining the competitive capacity of our economy. Denying this, looking at another side, we would be losing competitiveness and doing our economy a little bit of favor, the one you say comes out here to defend, the one you see in the polygons when you come out of Parliament and travel. He insisted on it with Xina, didn't he? I'm insisting with Xina. And you look at Xina and they talk about the working conditions of Xina and I haven't felt anything about working conditions here, about precariousness and inequality here. Because, in fact, you care very little about the working conditions of workers. The question is not the working class, the question is the origin of the worker, for you. [[Some applause.]] The question is, where is this worker or worker? From here, this obsession with Xina, who repeated it, I don't know how many times. Because, I insist, for you the issue is not the defence of the rights of workers and workers, but it is a question of origin of these workers and workers. The escorts'm, I'm done. He made an expression, which he said: "I don't answer..., or I don't know what he said respect some historical considerations that he made, and that he did them in order not to answer, because this was a sign that I fear them. Look, I'm not afraid of you. Now, the one who does a lot for you is the one who represents you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.29.0	Let's get to the point of the agenda, the question to the Government about the strengthening and transformation of the health system, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. [[Question to the Government on the strengthening and transformation of the health system]] [[300-00082/13]] You have the word to make the questioner's statement to the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.30.0	President, councillor; good late. I'll start this interview with a preview. You know, Counselor, that we have always supported the measures that the government has taken before and now in the struggle against the coward, I almost dare to say that in some moments we have been more loyal than their own governing companies. [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me? [[Rialles.]] But you wouldn't want to miss it, would you? The person who passed these last few days with the measure of demanding the passport to bars, restaurants, gymnasiums or residences, and not with the measure itself, that we share, but with the management; more quickly, with his did not manage. They managed to get cover and news in The Guardian, with whom they had to "lance and march back. And maybe before asking the TSJ for permission to have predicted the system's response, or rather the non-response, that has forced the department to suspend the measure until the Vice President's digital republic can provide the certificate to all citizens without having to be stuck to the system. Now they're telling us that until you're sold. Do you know what I'm worried about? I am concerned that we are giving balls to the negators, to those who believe that nothing is needed and that, therefore, it should not be so urgent if we can wait a week. I'm growing up, counselor... and I'm not sure how hard I know when I tell her she's a wrong woman who's gonna make history in the public health communication. And all this at a time of concern, of concern for data, that are alarming in a pandemic situation, they are not calming people; with a new variation at the doors, and that we share – not to say – that everyone has to be vaccinated, but that, for another group, in these last few days we also find gaps in information and do not connect between the SMS that they send and when you go to the CAP. Worrying news from Girona, Molins de Rei, Esplugues, Vic, Sabadell, among others, talk about lack of cows. In booster doses, we're at the back of the wagon. Divendres – and I didn't look at my data today, but... –, Catalonia had a middle of fifty_per_cent, in reinforcement; Molins de Rei was at 3,3_per_cent. I was asking your mayor if he knew why. These things worry. And so, I think that's not the measures, counselor, it's the management. It's not even citizenry, is it? There's a certain tendency to say that people don't do... no, they're neither measures nor citizenship; it's management. And he managed it exclusively on behalf of the Government of the Generality. And what we're worried about is this day-to-day management, that it can be the one I've just enunciated or that, if we're talking about professionals, their burnout is growing due to lack of professional reality, emotional exhaustion or dehumanization. They're overwhelmed and I have to say that some professional is stopped when he has a lot of ideas. These days it makes the primary attention of citizens and citizens feel unhesitating, doesn't it? , that they claim face-to-face and feel out of the system; among other things, because they do not control the digitalization tools. The image of Salt's primary care professionals in La Vanguarda yesterday greeted the citizens behind a rexa closed for assaults we should never allow in our health care system. We have an obligation to protect our professionals at the time of giving the human assistance that our citizens deserve. We have heard many times that digitization has come to stay and to improve processes and, at some point, we have the feeling that it has come to close the door of primary care centers to many citizens. These days I've listened to a lot of mayors and mayors... I recommend you do it, and I know you do it, but I do know that it does, and I really do, to slow down their feelings and concerns that they have gathered from their citizens and citizens: this day and day that we can't recover either the consultants, or the shutdown centers or all the services lost from the pandemic. This day, she re-centralizes pediatrics and gynaecology and leaves us in many areas, and many women, without the services we deserve in primary care centers. This day by day it widens the waiting lists and diminishes the quality of life of our citizens. In the list of waits I will also refer to a news that came out to La Vanguardia, which made a comparison of autonomous communities, says: « Catalonia has a half a day of waits much higher than the others. And you said you don't do much, you said you don't do much, that they're reduced. We're also talking about how we recover prevention and radiation in these days in severe conditions such as cancer or cardiovascular disease. Or we're talking about the patience, also day by day, the disease with post-covid pathology, that its treatment is a rosary of visits to different specialists because we lack specialized units. I, of mental health services, that we continue without giving answer to the follow-up to the requests neither CDIAPs, neither CSMAs nor CSMIJs. Next, neither adults nor children find answers or coverage to their needs. Look, the system is very good. We have a good health system. We have a good system that responds to high complexity, that responds when we have a hard illness, but we have a system that doesn't respond to us on a day-to-day basis and less at this time. Not until chronicity, face care, necessary interventions that are not difficult but that end up feeling necessary, home care or mental health. We are very concerned about accessibility to the system. We are also very concerned about the increase in private insurance, because it means that the most vulnerable sectors are the only ones left in the system, because who can be paid for a private insurance. And, therefore, we are not doing what we should do most, which is fighting against inequalities in health and making our health system a tool of social and territorial cohesion. If our system is only highly complex and leaves primary attention to which they cannot pay, we have ended up with a universal, accessible, equitable and quality public health system. And I'm worried and I wanted to ask him this question to tell him how he talks to this day and day... as he talks about this day and day in the contents that you explained to us at the conference of the strengthening and transformation of the health system? How is it spoken of this day to day when he explained to us the plan of government, the day he came to explain, in the contents of this conference or in the contents of the plan of salvation? And I have to tell him that I share, in a very good way, all these contents, because we share a health care model that we think is what it is to be. How did we share here, in the general policy debate, a motion of twenty-six points, which obliges us all, and which include these twenty-six points, day by day, is to say, response to the most immediate needs, as well as proposals for the future. But the next reality, the next thing we find ourselves... Because, look, counselor, I'll tell you: I'm wearing two legislatures – this, the third – I feel like I'm carrying a health and powerpoint, and I'm in full stairwell, and I'm glad that you don't even have a lot of it. I have to tell him. And, with that, I absolutely recognize it. I, therefore... And you admit that you say: "We must touch reality. He used to say that the other day, too. So let's touch this reality. But then I find the reality of the assumptions and the twenty-five percent of the primary I'm left with a little moonlight. Or the shock plan for the recovery of diagnostic activity, I don't know. Or the recognition of our professionals, who theoretically would have to tend to a certain equality between the Siscat and the ICS [[I'll tell you what.]] And we find that, for what he does to the assumptions... [[The water drinker.]] Excuse me. [[Pause.]] Chapter I of the ICS is increased by one twenty_per_cent and chapter I of the concerts is increased by three_per_cent. We're barely going; among other things, because I don't know if that's how you can deal with the DPOs that have an obligation to pay, because we've established a law of the Catalan Parliament in the previous legislature that I set up. I could go on with many more things of this young man, I say, who, somehow, house the two things, but I would like to know, counselor, if you really continue to keep the contents of what you said, the content of the young man and, therefore, also form part of his commitments. If we are also able to talk about this day and day, to approach it, how it is done, I think we must also be able to talk about aspects of the future. And, therefore, the other thing that you wanted to plant, counselor, is really you planning to call the work table to advance towards a salvation pact? Many of the proposals that you have put forward or many of the proposals that are in the motion conform to what on your day the committee of experts, the professionals, the professional colleges have brought to us on these thirty measures. But they don't see them either, and therefore I insist: if we continue to maintain these commitments, we continue to maintain the contents of this young man and, moreover, we continue to maintain not only the gains of transforming and strengthening our health system, but also the gains of being able to respond to our citizens in their day-to-day lives. Because I, with everything, live a lot a day and it seems to me that, like me, a lot of people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.31.0	Thank you. Next, there's the words of Salut's advisor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.32.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Escarp, well, it's true that we share many of the opinions and many of the... surely the measures. Among other things, you have taken, precisely, some elements from which I came to the conference to what you kindly attended, and which, moreover, worry me and much. For example, it has begun to explain the possible duality of a health system when middle classes abandon this health system, and this is happening to us in the last four years. In the last four years, we have advanced the twenty-i-five_per_cent, which had always existed and always existed of double coverage, up to thirty-two, thirty-three_per_per_cent of double coverage. And that's what I was explaining, that it's the danger you have in front of a health care system – and that's why you need to strengthen it – when you're only giving answers to a part of the citizenry or to some problems on the part of the citizenry to primary care or to the very high complexity, because after what happens is that this very high complexity also covers the private sector, and then it's when you've already destroyed the health care system. And this is the real privatization, this is the privatization. In the last few years, nothing has been privatized. Further to the concept we want to say: "One thing that is public has happened in private hands. The real privatization is not to finance the health system well, the infra-financing of the health system, which is a chronic under-financing. And here I also need to say clearly that, well, the Generality has made an effort, a clear effort, but, for example, I have not yet seen the extraordinary covid foundations. In our general state assumptions – not ours, the Madrid ones – I haven't seen them, and we're in a pandemic, and I'm tired of saying it and explaining the need for why. And we haven't seen this, and that's strengthening the health system. Because somehow, you're talking to me, for example, about what we're talking about about health professionals, who are actually exhausted, tired, very tired. All the citizens are, and obviously they are, by double play: as professionals and as citizens. But from this point of view, recognition is also necessary, and for this recognition – when I say "recognition, I speak of everything that is working conditions – it is necessary to have these health resources. And that's also why, before this chronic infra-financing, it's not just from Catalonia, because this is not just from Catalonia, it's necessary, as it was necessary in the 20th and 21st years, but the 22nd years, that there are these extraordinary foundations, and today they're not, and that's frankly worrying; and today they haven't negotiated on the assumptions, and that's frankly worrying. You tell me about the ICS-Siscat equipment. I think it's a good match, match in the sense, so I understand that you're okay, that so, so, that each suit also has its own particularities, but it also talked about an element that's not exactly the same, that it's the DPOs. The DPOs, the law that there is the recovery that was wanted by the law, the recovery of the DPOs of the Catalan Institute of Health. In the last paragraph it does expose that it would be good..., the same Siscat concept, but it also makes the point that this depends on a convention, and we, or you, rather, the legislative power between the agreed ones can not enter into it either. In the ICS yes, because I remember that in the ICS, for measurement law, year 12, it eliminated fifty_per_cent of the DPOs. And that's what they get back in the 18th and 19th, a more than fair recovery, and then it's transferred to a law, but it's either mainly affecting the ICS. He also talks to me about another element, which is the fact of the third dose. Miri, we set up this third dose in a way that... if it's allowed, of a certain normalization, in the sense of saying: we were first seventy or more years old, this was the first indication. And from this point of view we have placed this third dose in the primary care centers, in the primary care teams, because more than this third dose, what we have also been doing is, precisely, visiting, looking, seeing what is missing, what is not missing, and from this point of view also recovering diagnostic and treatment activities, above all diagnostic activities. And the dissipation published a date that, in fact, I'm glad, is the fact that we've recovered cancer diagnoses. Not because we recovered cancer, but because of the fact that we had obviously been underdiagnosing them during the 20th and the first part of the 21st years, in the strongest time of the pandemic, because we had everything, all eyes fixed, forgiveness, in the pandemic. And these have recovered, and certainly not at all, because it has recovered..., there is a 0.27_per_cent more diagnostics in the year 21 than not... – at these heights, at the end of November –, than the year 19. But surely we should expect a two or three percent more, or we still need to get this back, and to get that back we also need these extraordinary funds, and we also need these extraordinary funds to be negotiated. As we are also recovering everything that refers, therefore, to elements of arrhythmia and other points. And recuperating face-to-face, too. I'm talking about pediatricians and gynaecologists, and it's true – and it's true – and here I've also offered it to the Health Commission, which we won't have to talk about, all that is health demography. We can complain about it, we can complain about it, but they're not there. So, we can cheat on the lonely; we can complain, complain, complain, and I understand that then, out of here, we all make our paper, I understand, but here in the end we have to work with data, see what health demography is, see how many pediatricians we have, see how we form pediatricians. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, but this, Mrs Escarp, is not just about us, and I will say to you: I am not primarily about us, in the sense, I am speaking now, of post-graduate training. Postgraduate training at the MIR practically is only done at the hospital. There's a rotation in the primary, but if it matches the estuary, it's a few months of rotation in the primary. Then this is a hospital and primary specialty. Well, it's hard for someone when he's out of residence, to choose the most primary, most primal part; if he actually brings it, say, to between, he will, but if it's all day, isn't it? All day long, he's on the hospital side, and that's gonna convince me that it's complicated. Miri, as for the passport or the digital code, I have to say one thing: last week we brought 9,200,000 digital certificates downloaded, 9,200,000. The community that has long downloaded more digital certificates, by population and by vaccinated population, long. At these times, we are already carrying 11_millions, 11_millions. Listen, this measure is taking place all the time and, well, it hasn't been a lot of trouble, but if we need more time, we need more time and if we need to rectify, I've rectified, I've already done it; I don't have a problem. But we also have in its fair measure what is the digital certificate, which is one more measure, is not the measure. In this pandemic, we may have had the storm – and you know it – that every measure that came out is the measure. No, he prevented her. And in this case, then, we've explained it a few times, this theory of drilling formatting, it's a formatting, a sheet of formatting, another that can cover the drill, another, another; it's a set of measurements. They are a set of measures and this will not be or is not necessarily the measure or the only measure to be taken by us, therefore, from the problem of the covid. And yes, and you talked about the micron, and it's... well, it's an element of concern. Actually, it's just as the WHO has already said, and in this sense, we'll have to be loving. We've already started everything that's scribble work, with 20 percent of all scribble shows. And, well, it will appear; it will be a variation that I probably don't say for sure, but it will probably be a variation that will end up imposing, more than anything because we are already seeing it in the residual waters and because we already have some cases. All right, all right, [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. In the turn of the line, the Member of the House has the word Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you have done everything to finance, to infra-finance, and we share – because it seems to me that we have told you from this time on, the chairman of the parliamentary group too – the measure of a need that has, at the time, posed 5,000 more_million more to the Catalan health system, and that we have asked for. But, of course, to discuss infra-financing and to discuss this financing that it would take with four or five years to get there, someone has to come to discuss autonomous financing. Because I want to remember that health financing, except in very concrete things, for example, I know, now that we've paid for the cows, some of the things come with money, but if not, they're all in charge of our own autonomous financing system. And, therefore, at this point in time when there is a debate between the autonomous communities, not only with the health issue, but also with the modification and approach of the autonomous financing system, so perhaps it would be a good time. Miri, if we think strictly in health terms of not letting empty falls, of being there, of agreeing with other autonomous communities and fighting for this funding. Because if we don't, we stay with the complaint and expect someone to solve it. Listen, we've injected into Catalan sanitation by the Government of the State, so nearly €2,000_million to fight the cove and well spent it's still, listen, and welcome it's still. But also the government of the state has just paid part of the Inveat programme and the European React programme, that is to say, that they have come. But it's that regardless of the financing, which gave it a good part of the autonomic financing and, therefore, it has to be a compromise also of the Government of Catalonia to sister and discuss it, there's what's said "own will, and the own will is that a government dedicates to salvation or that a government dedicates to any of the other presuppositional parties. And I already told him the day that we were discussing the presuppositions committee, well, the Health Commission that was talking about presuppositions; it turns out that if you look at the growth of departments, Greetings is what's new. But I felt that the President of the Generality said it was a priority, but that's what's new. Hi it's the twenty-and-nine-per-cent of the Generality of Catalonia's assumption and by the year 2010 and others had had one specific fish in the Generality of Catalonia's assumption much higher. That is to say, when we talk about finance, we talk about financing and important discussions that need to be held and, for another group, we talk about political intentions. I mean, let's prioritize the Health Department. You said yourself: « I would need 12,000 my... It was just like an attack of sincerity and now it doesn't touch, but he said: « We would need 12,000_million to face the 2022 assumption in Salvation. We've stayed at 11,000 people, because we have those 500 that you know I always pass it and, therefore, 11,000_million. So, we're missing 1,000_million that you seem to have asked for. In relation to your words, huh? , the counselor turned. [[The Health Councillor intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, no, if that's all right, but there's still 20 million missing, which is what we agree with you and me. [[The Health Councillor intervenes without using the microphone.]] I'm also convinced they're missing more. Counselor, I wanted to contrast, say. It's good to talk about strength, but we really need to approach it day by day. You said: "Professionals are tired, the measure of the certificate is one more measure. But the cities and the cities are very tired. For this reason, it is difficult to accept or not to accept that I don't get the certificate. That's why we're more impatient. That's why we're complaining more face-to-face, because we're tired, too. We're also tired of one of the primordial aspects of our life that is salvation and that we've seen it peril. And we are also tired because we understand that without salvation there is no economy and that, therefore, we want this priority to be given priority. I ask you, truly counsel, to take care of the measures that we have taken, to make an important effort for face-to-face, to make a real effort to attend to this day and day, or to continue with the foundations that are needed, but that somehow this can be done. And since you've talked about the professionals of the Siscat and the DPOs, man, it's surprising that the CatSalut is the major boss of the Siscat, because the Siscat without the CatSalut would do little. And that I'm not at the negotiating table, which is a historical claim... would be fine. I share with you that we teach the MIR to deal with big cases and then they have to see children without – I agree absolutely – but we also have to figure out why most of the MIRs that make primary quit, huh? And then it's not just Catalonia that's left but they're going. I mean, if you're going to plant, we have a lot to plant, because if we believe in what's the first thing we might think of as their formation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.35.0	I've got the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.36.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Escarp, I apologize to you when I have made some comments, because I don't know very well about this fair parliamentary play, but I felt it, more than I do..., that I don't get broken..., the 1,000 have them – yes. That's what we were talking about. I've got 2,000 more, which is different. I mean, I'm 11,200, and you know – and that's what we've been saying – that Hi, not here, at all times, and many years ago, you have some games that we call it expandable, to say it in an euphemistic way – " expandable, eh? – that they are very related to pharmacy – you know that. And you know that from here, more or less, we'll spend about 1,200 million more, okay? And so, when we talk about fish too, we always have to differentiate whether it's on the premise or the execution. And we'll run the year coming, so, about 12,500_million. "We'll execute, but I'll have 1,500 more, we'll have 1,500 more, that's 1,500 more, that's what I say this year, that we'll have a coven and that we have a coven and that we've spent... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Two thousand, certainly, have arrived 2,000, we will not need 2,000 enguany, 1,500, but we need them! Without these 1,500 there is a problem, and a serious problem. Therefore, I say to him: 2,500 we have them, we will spend them; I'm broken 1,500. That's why he said it – he said it was a good way, huh? –: I am escorted by elevation – by elevation – so there are not only 1,000; 1,500. Another important element: face-to-face. We're getting it back. And I must say another thing to him in the presence of him: that little by little he shall not be in the presence of him before, because we have much, we have much. We are, the truth, of the most frequent societies, and I speak now of societies..., I speak now compared to Spain, I am not speaking now of other countries much more there. We are very frequent and, from this point of view, it is true that we can frequent, but we should go – this is what the experts tell us – to a seventy/ thirty. During the pandemic we have gone to pendol– we have gone to the other extreme– and now we have to return to this seventy/ thirty, which is what we are, somehow, recovering. Own funding will, 500_millions; 500_millions indicating this own will. And then, listen, you said, it's a good health system. It's a system that's at a very critical, very critical time, and I'm telling you so clearly. And that's why I'm talking about finance, and that's why I'm talking about strengthening it. Because it's a very good health system but it brings twelve years of offending, and it doesn't want to or... And I've always posed, more... – and you've also felt me – the one who needs a normal health system – normal – I mean, the countries of our environment, with finance, forgiveness, with reversal – with reversal – and it needs roughly between a four and a half and a five-cent. And we've been reversing the last 12 years a 1.7_per_cent. And then, too, another precision. You quote the Inveat fonts, you quote the React fonts and you tell me they come from Spain. Listen, they come from, but they come from European citizenship: they come from the city of Barcelona, they come from the city of Antwerp, they come from the city of Europe, and they return, with extraordinary and European foundations, in the form of different programs – the Inveat, the React – and then they manage how they manage. I'll explain. That is to say, that Madrid can decide to "listen, no, no, the Inveat already the gift I, I say look, will go this way, depending on the needs of the autonomous community, or can give in to the management. And that, if you want, we could talk about another day, which we only have forty-seven seconds. But what I would like to make very clear is that the money is from European citizenship, from all sides. They're not Madrid money, they're not Brussels money, they're not Barcelona money, they're all European citizenship, and we don't have to forget that. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the actions related to the new areas of male rape that reverses the Law 17/2020, amending the Law 5/2008, of the right of women to eradicate male rape]] [[300-00084/13]] Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about actions in relation to the new realms of masculinist rapes that reverse the Law 17/2020, amending the Law 5/2008, of the right of women to eradicate male violence. It was presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.38.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, as already announced by the title of the inquiry, the last legislature we did a reform of the law of masclistic rapes by deploying and expanding some of the forms and some of the ambits. And so, just like the last legislature was the time of the legislature, wasn't it? , to expand this law, now is the turn of the execution to deploy and develop public policies based on the work we did with the reform of the 2008 law against male violence. One of the first things we did was to renew the definition of'male violence', because, despite the fact that it was already a very good definition, we were convinced that we would add to it that it was the violation of human rights through violence against women, and this means that, despite the fact that in this chamber now, the saying, we would talk about the convenience of talking about'male violence' or 'indominal violence', so well, with this definition it is impossible to consider intrafamily violence as the one that affects women, because it is a structural cause, it is not a conjunctural cause, and therefore, this violation of human rights through the violence that is exercised against women is that, isn't it? , perpetuated not only by men but by patriarchal systems. And this definition we did because somehow it seems that the violence that women suffer has always been a sectoral policy, a policy, hasn't it? , to the band, and, therefore, we wanted to make this extension of the definition. More things that they did with that reform. The original law already spoke of spheres and forms of male violence following international treaties, they understand that male violence is not just the one that beats women in the realm of the pair, and therefore, the private sphere, it is not just the one that beats women, is it not? , physically or psychologically, or even all sexual violence, but we understand that they were a set of rapes perpetrated also by the states, also by the administrations, in all the spheres of our lives, from getting up until we go to sleep, from being born until we die. And therefore, this definition of male violence, following international treaties, broadened the forms and broadened the scope. Among the forms were physics, psychology, sex; we added obstetric rape and sexual and reproductive rights violations, we added economics, we added digital, which was a rape that was left out of the original law. Violence according to order, which is the one that is suffered by the people who support the victim, and therefore, with this will to legislate and make regulations, therefore, the help that the victims of male violence receive. Somehow, in order to reinforce this network that must have the women and their children, victims of male violence, because they understand that they are not alone. And, therefore, they also made a reinforcement in another form, which is vicarious violence, which I think when we did the reform we had to explain what vicarious violence was. Unfortunately, one year later, we no longer have to explain in the communication media, in this faristol or rau, what vicarious violence is because, unfortunately, we have not had any shows of such fierce violence. Let's add, too, to the band of shapes and backgrounds, definitions. And there are two definitions that I think were important, one was sexual consent, and the other is due diligence. Why? Because if we introduce institutional violence as a form and an environment of male violence, we cannot forget the definition of due diligence. What's the shut-down? In short, it is the obligation of the public authorities to adopt legislative measures and any other order to act with agility and efficiency. And this is the part where the legislature is withdrawn. We legislate on due diligence, add it to the law of male violence as one of the definitions that must govern all public policies of administrations in order to combat male violence, in order to attend to victims of male violence, without revictimizing. And so, as I said in the past plenary, we asked a question at the control session, to legislate and to make public policies about the due diligence is a very clear message. In the same way that violence of the order, to make norms on this, is a message to victims who are not alone, to legislate on the due diligence is this: "Germana, the Generalitat, the administrations of your country believe, and not only believe, but they accompany you; and they do not only accompany you, but they are an active part of your reparation. And so, this" Generality believes you, and this is where the work of the legislature begins, this is not just the motivation, but it is one of the important reasons for which we considered that the Government of the Generality needed a council of equality and feminisms, someone who led these public policies, who codified with other departments of the Generality these public policies that are transformational, that are transversal, that are not left with a sectoral policy, and therefore this delineation, this deployment of the law, passes from Parliament to the Government, and it is about this question that we want to ask. Of all these forms and of all these areas that we have introduced into the law against male violence, which are the proposed ones, not only in the assumptions that we have discussed sufficiently in the previous plenary and also in the Committee on Equality and Feminisms, but also in the proposal of the Government of the Generality, the Department of Equality and Feminisms, to deploy all these public policies that complement with the principle of due diligence, and that make this display of all these forms and all these areas, that may not be so difficult, so urgent, and so fierce as feminicide, such as sexual rape, or as violence in the normal sense of the word, but only in the final sense of rape. What we did with the law is expand rights and also expand the subject of this law. We want rights for more women, because we understand that we are not a homogeneous social group. We introduced, from article 2, that this law was also done and designed to protect children, adolescents and trans women, and therefore, all that we did in this law, as I said, goes from law to law. We wanted to ask you, therefore, who are these proposals, these public policies, thought to complement with due diligence, to guarantee the human rights of women, of all, and with all their diversity, understand that one of these definitions, which we also added to the law of male violence, was internationality. And therefore, to hear that male-based violence crosses us all, but that, moreover, this specific violence converges with other oppressions, in other discriminations in our day-to-day life. Therefore, counsel, we would like to ask you about the deployment of this law, which was just a year ago that we approved in the Parliament of Catalonia, and that one year later we have a council of Equality, we have a council of Equality and Feminisms, and therefore, who are these measures intended to deploy this law so necessary. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.39.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms, the Lady Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.40.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs... MP Díaz, as was the case the year 2008 with the approval of the law of the right of women to eradicate male violence, the approval of the amendment of the Law 17/20 places Catalonia in a forward position for what it does to its comprehensive approach. I will focus on the new areas of my intervention, which are new areas that are not that we follow the reality of male violence, the reality of women, but that its explicit inclusion in the legal framework obliges more extensive and sustained interventions by all public authorities, and in this legislature, as you said, under the coordination of the Department of Equality and Feminisms. Of the new inclusive, no doubt, as he also pointed out, the most political significance is the recognition of institutional violence. A claim of decades of feminist movement that puts the focus on all the rapes that the administrations exercise, whether by omission or by action. And this recognition consolidates the approach of masculinist rapes from the acute diligence, this concept that they emphasize, and from the guarantee of the human rights of women. We know that the expression "institutional violence" still generates some resistance, but it had to be named with it. It's not more about establishing criminal responsibilities, in fact, our law is not a criminal law; it's a law of rights. Therefore, what it is about is to value not if a person intended to cause harm or suffering, because we know that this re-victimization is used to producing more quickly for bugs, stereotypes, harms or lack of training, and at the same time does not mean that it can be exposed. On the contrary, the law obliges us to identify it to address the deficiencies, to repair the damage caused and to establish guarantees of non-repetition. To put an end to institutional violence, first of all, from the Directorate-General for the Eradication of Masclist Violence, the programme "Guarantee rights" was launched. On the one hand, from this program we are making an integral diagnosis with different components: a state of the question that reverses the results of the different studies commissioned to specialized entities in the last five years on institutional violence; the biannual evaluation of the own network of care services and full recovery of women who suffer male violence; the annual evaluation of secondary victimization of women and their children in court proceedings, not only when they report being male rape, but also in civil and family cases. And all these instruments have also been added to the assessment of the attention given by the women to filing a complaint on behalf of the Squadre Mosso Cos, that is to say, the evaluation will be carried out from there with the collaboration of the Department of Equality and Feminisms. On the other hand, in the framework of this programme, "Guarantee rights, we are building indicators of the different forms of institutional violence so that they are incorporated into the working tools of the entire network of approaches to male-based violence so that we can identify them and thus prevent them from reproducing. Secondly, the Directorate-General for the Eradication of Masclist Violence is developing a new Marked Protocol for the Junta of Public Powers that places the needy of women at the centre, and this implies ordering the various existing sectoral or territorial protocols and implementing a new model of approach to sexual violence. And given that coordination is essential to ensure this thorough diligence to which it put emphasis, because that is why, and to avoid institutional violence, it will reform the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence so that it is a real coordinator of government policies and the country where the shortcomings detected in the circuits and the network are working. In this same line, the new feminicide protocol recently approved wants to ensure coordination between departments of the Generality and is preparing a qualitative methodology that allows for the development of lessons on these extreme cases of male violence, basically to increase the ability to prevent them, because we can detect all those alarms that might have jumped and that we may not have seen from different administrations. We are also meeting with the different general directions of the set of departments with the objective of articulating interventions that take into account the cross-sectional discrimination suffered by large women, children and adolescents, women with disabilities, migrant women, racialized women, lesbian women or trans women. Third, the Equality and Feminisms Council will implement mandatory and periodic specialized training for all professional groups involved in the care, protection and repair of women who suffer male violence. In fourth place, we are working both in the best of the service model of the specialized network as well as in the best of the working conditions of the professionals. There's a historical debt here. A job we're doing from visits, space and meeting with professional teams. And finally, still in the realm of institutional rapes, before these extreme cases of rape against children and adolescents in contexts of masculinist rapes exercised towards their seas, the result of the joint work between the Department of Justice and the Department of Equality and Feminisms, we have approved today to govern a decree to modify the Catalan Civil Code, with the objective that the judicial authorities adequately protect them. And this means that without the need for a sentence or formal complaint, when the judicial authority appreciates well-founded evidence of violence against the mother on the part of the aggressor father, it will suspend its right to relate to the children, whether there are meetings, visits or communications. And this arrangement also protects children and girls from women victims of femicide. Thus, this decree establishes that children, children and adolescents have access to psychological treatment without the authorization of the aggressor parent. Complimentary to the final provision of Law 17/20, this modification ensures the primacy of the best interests of children and adolescents and sets aside the situation of legal insecurity suffered by the professionals of the network of attention to masculinist rapes. For what it does to obstetric rape that violates sexual and reproductive rights of women, as we have established with the Department of Health and with professional colleges at meetings held in later months, interventions go on to collect new and better data, to identify inappropriate practices, which can also be heard as institutional violence, and to raise awareness and train all health personnel. Moreover, the national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights defined by the Government envisages various measures to ensure that gynecological and obstetric practices incorporate the type of part, respecting decisions, the body, the salvation and the emotional processes of women. As for the educational environment, the omissions or inadequate or inadequate responses before male violence are also constitutive of institutional violence, and for this reason the Education Department has set aside the platform for the free choice of rapes to deal with cases and form the joint educational community, and, in parallel, the unit of support for the student in a situation of rape, which is a team of professionals that operates when there is a case and that makes the appropriate derivations to the circuit of approach of the rapes. Universities have also had anti-sexual settlement protocols, and since the Council will be established through a guide the minimum standards that have to be completed from the point of view of Law 17/2020 for all public administrations, and we will follow up on their application. As you also emphasized, in the case of politics, it should be remembered that when male violence is produced in institutions, public administrations or parties, and it is not sanctioned, it is also a form of institutional violence. For this reason, we would encourage the revision of the public sector protocols against settlement because they complement these standards, which are the establishment of appropriate precautionary measures and reparations, the follow-up and advice to victims from the first moment, the independence and expertise of the persons conducting the investigation, and we start with the Generality protocol; we follow with the joint protocols, in this case, providing a marked protocol so that we can update and accompany them, and another marked protocol for the political party. Many of the parties present in this chamber already have a protocol, but they will have to update to the standard of Law 19/2020, and those that do not have it, will have to adopt it. Last week, in order to address male-based violence in the digital field, the Department of Interior presented the guide on digital male-based violence, prepared for the DonesTech entity, in a session that started the formation of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra on this type of violence. It is a guide that offers tools to identify them, to establish self-protection measures, but also with recommendations on how to report this form of violence to the same placards or to data protection agencies, recommendations on how to report it to the police, or advice on how to preserve the evidence because it has more legal force. All of these responses that are being implemented by the Government will enable us to move forward in a very significant way in guaranteeing the right of women to a life free of male violence and, with this, in guaranteeing their right to physical, sexual and psychological integrity, to the right to education, to work, to freedom of expression, to social and political participation and to the guarantee of their sexual and reproductive rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.41.0	Let us move on to the fourteenth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the preservation of rights in the framework of the European institutions, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. [[Question to the Government on the preservation of rights in the framework of European institutions]] [[300-00085/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the French deputy of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, if you'll allow me a previa, since it's Junts' first intervention for Catalonia in this House, we wanted to start with the condol to the family that died today at Tetuan Square. It wasn't an accident; until we understand all that it's not an accident, we're going to say sorry and we won't solve it. And it's a little sad and a little gray start, because a little sorry we want to get to the Camprodon Valley Mountain Group, to the Camprodon Ski Club, which have lost the Xavi. We estimate the mountain a lot, and we estimate it even though it takes us the most esteemed people. A week ago, she was in London, in the Westminster Parliament, and announced that the Government would bring to the Council of Europe the Supreme's judgment against linguistic immersion in order to violate the European charter of languages. Certainly, Somescola has already called the demonstration for the 18th of September against this sentence, at the Arc de Triomf, and Together for Catalonia there, it could not be in any other way. Today and tomorrow, the school in Catalan. And this question today is about that, because it's not a winged feeling, because Spain is a world champion in failing to comply with European law, and it's also the world champion in legislating and sentencing our language. And that's not right now, that's not new, and it's actually late if I want to correct a little. It was in Puig and Cadafalch, in 1918, the then president of the Commonwealth, who told them in Madrid: "The day you understand that the unit of Spain is wrong to estimate its diversity, perhaps Catalonia will not want to leave Spain. And what has Spain done since then? So he's done all the opposite. It's been a long time, it's been ugly against it. In fact, the story of Spain is the story of the struggle against the Catalan language, from the same 1714, with the Count-Duke of Olives, who was in charge of applying the decree of Nova Planta, from the minute zero, from the second zero. Or the year 1896, when the General Directorate of Posts and Telegraphs banned the use of català in telephone conversations. And that's not a left or right thing, no, no; that's pretty homogeneous in all Spanish history. For example, during the Second Republic in 1938, speaking in Catalan by phone was also persecuted. And today, the seventh hairpin that the Spanish government has done with the percentage of audio-visual plataforms. We will repeat until the satiety: no Spanish government will shield the català, no Spanish government will protect the català. May, May. And, therefore, the situation from a historical perspective of what Spain has done in relation to Catalan language is to fight against this linguistic diversity. What you were, what you did as deputies and deputies in the previous parliamentary term, remember that President Torra's articles filled many hours of this meal, and there was one, that we say that it was the one that was most named, that it was the one that said, "Blessed and Language." With the articles of President Torra passes a little like Pla, that people talk a lot and read it a little, because precisely..., that effectively President Torra spoke of "blessings in human form; it was not referring to Spanish speakers, but it was referring to those who hate languages. Because in the same way that he thinks of a language he values them all, that he hates a language alone, maybe without knowing it, he hates them all. For this reason, when the "squire up to the Spanish national radio" is finally done, it is not by chance; it is the result of signs of Catalanophobia and hatred to that which is different. Not just the català, also the català. In fact, it would be a very good question, to all those who joked: in how many languages they know how to say squid. And that would explain a lot of his cosmosvisión. Well, finally... [[Greetings.]] Finally, monolingualism is the refuge of fevers, it is the refuge of pigs. There's another way to do things. The esteemed Patrycia Centeno quoted this week Jacinda Ardern, the Prime Minister of New Zealand, who said: "We have a role as guardians of the Maori; we have the duty to take care of it, since it is about something more than a tongue. And yes, actually, huh? , has a paternalist's point, but it's unimaginable for a Spanish president to say something similar. And what do we have now? So, from one band – and it is positive – the evidence that the Catalan language, as any language, depends on us, depends on its speakers. And, therefore, if we maintain, if we persist, if we maintain it, it will not take long, our language has an assured future. But, on the other hand, we also have a political obviousness in the case of administrations, in the case of institutions, and it is that the català dies if it continues in the Spanish State and that, in turn, in Europe, we have an opportunity. That is why it is necessary to denounce the Spanish State to Europe and to take advantage of the European legislation that is in its possession. Fifteen days ago some Members of this House held a blind trust in Europe, and I would say that I have never expressed it like that. But yes, what I'm saying is that it's our natural space. In fact, in the 1990s, the Spanish State had a delegation from the European Office for the Languages Menys Difoses; it was an office that they converted into Galeusca – Galicia, Euskadi and Catalonia –, and in Catalonia the responsible office was the ICESEN, where at those times the deputy who speaks to you worked. And I know very well the European reticences to minority languages, which, in fact, is the way in which Europe refers to minorities. But it's our natural space, as I was saying, and it's also our natural space of survival and normalization, or that's by comparison. Another European language continues to feel unofficial with the size, vitality and demographic, cultural and economic pesso that the català has. We are the tretzenth language of Europe. That it is not official in Europe is indeed an abnormality. And there's only one guilty, which is the Spanish State. In fact, it has blocked up to seven times the official request of the català. Are we wondering what they're up to? What makes you the català in Europe? And the result is that we cannot express ourselves in Catalan before the European institutions and the rest of European bodies. And that directly affects and directly violates the linguistic rights of all of us and each of us. For example, in the labelling, we have Regulation 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which only observes official languages. Therefore, the català is excluded. The official version of the texts of the European Union is in Catalan, chap. The català is excluded. They cannot be part of the European Union's language dissemination programmes. The European language tretzena cannot be part of the European Union's language dissemination programmes. Is this the fault of the European Union legislation? So no; it's the Spanish State's fault that it's a monolingual flight. In fact, the Spanish State contradicts its own European legislation, because Spain signed the CELROM, the European charter of regional languages or minority languages. This letter explicitly talks about making education possible in regional and/ or minority languages. That is to say, the Supreme's feeling of immersion violates the international commitments of the Spanish State. Therefore, we can assume – I think we can already take on a little everyone – that in the Spanish State, everything, in the execution, the legislature, the judiciary, the català is one of us, it will always go against it, it will kill it, it will try to destroy it and it will try to eliminate it. It's also one of the reasons we want to establish a similar state. And we don't have to make a mess of ourselves: the law is the same problem as the Wert law; it's in the mood of the minister to come back. Therefore, when we are told to be calm, that the minister of return has already said "no" to us, we are not people, calm. And less, if we look at the Spanish electoral expectations. So, sooner we get to trembling. Therefore, from a historical perspective this will not change. And in Europe, however, català is an abnormality for the action of the Spanish State; an abnormality to which we can pose with the exercise of the right to self-determination and with the establishment of a similar state. That is why we are Europeans too, that is why we are Euro-demanding. And that's why we're here and that's why we're working for Catalonia's independence. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.43.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Now you have the word to make the answer to the Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert, Ms. Victòria Alsina.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.44.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, Members, this past week he was travelling to London on a business trip, to make political meetings, to make sectoral meetings, and, obviously, with the ultimate objective of strengthening the bonds that we have from Catalonia with the United Kingdom and also to visit the numerous and excellent Catalan diaspora that we have in that country. In the march of this trip, one of the main acts was a debate that I made, which was organized by the Royal Institute of International Affairs, better known as the Chatham House, one of England's most important think tanks of independent thinking about international relations. It was an interesting debate that reaffirmed three questions that I think are interesting to share with you so that they deal directly with the subject of this inquiry; three facts that I was able to see and that many of you will certainly not surprise them. It is that in a country, therefore, of a long democratic and parliamentary tradition, such as the United Kingdom, talking about references, talking about different languages, talking about diversity does not generate any kind of aggres debate, at any time, even with those who are against it. A second conclusion, which is comforting to confirm, but we already know, is that Catalonia is considered one of the great engines of southern Europe, with a great ability not only to attract investments, but also talent. And, therefore, dispels the speech of why it is often repeated from this Faristol. A third conclusion of this debate and of these conversations I had was the abyssal difference that exists between the United Kingdom and Spain for which it makes the recognition of the four nationalities that form part of it. Catalonia has looked at the language, the history, and the culture. Today it is up to us to speak of language; language as the most distinct, symbolic and meaningful element, and also the one that best portrays the minority of the State for which it does, therefore, the cultural, linguistic and its own Catalan identity. I would, however, like to put an international lens on it. I think it's important to have some numbers that contextualize exactly what we're talking about. Well, the Catalan, with the 10_million speakers you have, suffers a situation of absolute exceptionality in Europe. For one band, it's the only language with more than seven million speakers... 10, huh? , in our case, but the only language with more than 7 million speakers that is considered a regional language. For what it does to the name of speakers, the Catalan language is equivalent to Swedish, Greek or Portuguese, and surpasses Danish and Finnish. In fact, there is no language of the dimensions, vitality and the economic and demographic pesso that has the català that is not official language to the Union. Actually, a few more numbers, I think they're interesting. There are more speakers than eleven languages that are official languages of the European Union. And here, if we ask ourselves what is the difference between the Catalan and these eleven languages – which I read them; it is the Danish, the Slovak, the Bulgarian, the Latvian, the Estonian, the Croatian, the Finnish, the Slovak, the Lithuanian, the Irish and the Maltese – the difference is that it is not the official language of the European Union. Catalan is not official language due to lack of political will of the State. We don't have to go into tech, now we'll see. It is purely a matter of political will. In fact, it is the most widely spoken language in the European Union, but even though it was not, it should be recognised. But it's the tretzene. The numbers here seem important to contextualize the debate. Let's go over what the Statute of Autonomy says in its article sisè, about own language and official languages; it's relevant to what we're discussing here. I literally read: "The Generality and the State must undertake the actions necessary for the recognition of the official status of català in the European Union and the presence and use of català in international bodies and in international treaties of cultural or linguistic content. That is literally the state of autonomy. Therefore, what we ask from this government is the recognition of català as the full right language of the European Union. It's not a whim; it's a statutory mandate. In this framework, the Government of Spain has not only not called for recognition before the Council of the Union – which is the relevant body to ask for it – but has, on repeated occasions, blocked the application for official status. I, here, let's get back to the subject of how to put this debate. Many times we place this debate in a legal sphere and begin to talk about technicalities on which the European law allows, which allow the treaties of the Union or which allows the regulation of the council. Well, let's keep in mind that this is an eminently political issue. Does the Spanish Government want the Catalan to acquire a status of normality and to be treated on equal terms with the European institutions? If this is the case, I am convinced that they will find the formula to give compliments to what the State says, which already gives the State, and that they will not hide in technicalisms, because this is not technicalisms. The fact that Catalonia is in an anomalous situation, in which it is intended to invisibly and rake the tretzen language with more speakers of the European Union, is a matter of political will. Viewed in perspective, I seem to highlight the Moratine memorandum, which was approved in its moment. Here I don't discuss good intentions; I discuss lack of ambition. This is a memorandum which allowed administratively to increase the use of language in different European institutions, but which is totally inadequate. Actually, everyone's due is... And when I say all of us are not just those who believe that Catalonia is a nation, but just those who believe in democratic values and plurality, which includes more groups of this chamber. It is a duty to defend that the català is official in Europe. As Mr De Dalmases said, this would allow the issue of labelling in catalá, European subsidies in catalá, which the audiovisual level is protected at European level and which can be addressed in catalá to the European Commission in Brussels. It would also allow us to lay down our citizenship in the work done by the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council. And in this sense, the Department of Foreign Affairs will work with the Department of Culture and with the whole government to make this stand out in every sense. This month, as you know well and have been debated in this chamber and will continue to feel it, the Supreme Court was filing this appeal that is trying to break the model of linguistic immersion in the Catalan school. Well, last week, after confirming this fact, I sent a letter to the Chairman of the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities expert committee of the Council of Europe informing her of a new attack on the model of linguistic immersion. This is a letter, the European Charter of Regional Languages and Minorities, which has been signed and ratified by the Spanish State and on which numerous complaints and repeated notices of non-compliance have already been rejected. Therefore, it is one more, that we wanted to materialize with the sending of this card. I wanted to finish my intervention, at the faristol of this Parliament, making a call, making a petition to the political forces of this Parliament. In fact, I wanted to propose to all the presidents of the parliamentary groups of this chamber that they sign a letter, addressed to President Pedro Sánchez, to formally ask the office of the Catalan to the European Union. [[Greetings.]] Another refusal by the State to do so that the State was already obliged to confirm, from my point of view, that the agenda of the meeting is little more than a political branding operation. Therefore, I see with all naturality that this letter is to be produced as a shared claim from which, I would say, they think that the plurality and value of Catalonia to Catalonia is to be defended. This government hopes that Catalonia will become a full member of the European Union. As the Member of Parliament De Dalmases, a critical member of the Union, has said, from the point of view, however, that the European Union is our political reference area and, therefore, in order to be a full member of the European Union, the català must not only be treated with normality at our home, but also at the institutions of the Union. We will not allow anyone to secrete the català, neither the State nor Europe. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-30-1901.45.0	With this inquiry, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning.
