ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the investiture session. And before I begin, I want to have a few words of welcome for President Tora, who will accompany us in some of the offices attached to the Chamber, and also for Vice President Junqueras, who will also do so and follow this investiture debate. And for all... I want to keep a record, too, for all people who, because of imprisonment or exile, are not there, but would have all the legitimacy to be there. [[Greetings.]] [[Agenda debate and investiture vote of MEP Pere Aragonès Garcia, candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality (continuation)]] [[201-00002/13]] We will continue with the interventions of the rest of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. And, in the first place, has the word Ignacio Garriga, president of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, for a maximum time of thirty minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. First of all, let me convey a message of affection to the ceutians, our compatriots who are suffering an invasion directed, meditated and orchestrated by Morocco. I also want to transfer our support to the army and to the state's security forces and bodies, which are protecting our borders and our sovereignty from attacks. ( Some applause.) And those who rejoice in our difficulties as a nation, when they do not encourage them, who know that Ceuta will not fail, because Spain will prevail. As he has always done, and as he always will. Ladies and gentlemen, today we write a new chapter in the sad recent history of our land. Today Catalonia is less free, less prosperous and less secure. And in a few months it will be even more so, because the only objective of your policies, Mr Aragonès, is to foster hatred and confrontation. The agreement reached between the separatists and which will allow you, Mr Aragonès, to assume the presidency of the Generalitat, responds only to the more than 500 grateful stomachs, to the distribution of armchairs, prebendas and organizations of the Mafia customer network that have created in the last decades on the basis of plundering the taxpayers, to whom, by the way, you owe, but who do not hesitate to trample. Because you, the problems of Catalans care very little. That's why it's been three months of theater, negotiations between a thug and a runaway, to see who's taking the best part of the loot: our wealth. I guess this legislature will be short, with great challenges to the constitutional order, conditioned by a group like the CUP – a violent formation that under the flag of democracy promotes and defends deeply undemocratic practices. A legislature conditioned by laws surely to advance in its ideological delusions, which have nothing to do with the real problems of Catalans and which will further exacerbate the difficulties faced by workers and families in the face of the most serious crisis of the past 80 years. And the legislature will be short, because you don't trust each other; and if you don't trust each other, imagine if we do. In the face of the reactivation of the coup d'état, I want you to know that you will face us to be the main national opposition in this chamber, in the courts and in the streets. In this chamber, to denounce all the anti-democratic devices that attack Catalonia and, consequently, against Spain. We'll break, be very clear, the cordon sanitaire. Because they'll be able to speak louder, get up from their seats, put up banners, send their violent ones, whatever they want. But I am already telling you that you are going to have to be very, very persistent, because we are going to be the voice of millions of Catalans that you, all of you have abandoned, have abandoned over the last few decades. We will be in the courts to enforce the law for all those who, like many of you, are committed to subverting the constitutional order. And believe me when I tell you we're ruthless. Or, if not, ask those responsible for the October One coup – some are seeing my intervention – or the one he served as campaign leader of Mr Illa and chief of staff of Mr Pedro Sánchez, Mr Redondo, whom the Constitutional Court has removed from the CNI thanks to the unconstitutionality appeal lodged by VOX. In the streets, yes, in the streets. Because they're not theirs, they don't belong to them. And as much as they encourage violence against our acts or our information desks, they won't silence us. When we talk about separatist mafia, we talk about the agreement signed between Aragonès and Sànchez; an agreement negotiated by Oriol Junqueras, condemned for sedition and embezzlement, and Carles Puigdemont, fled Spanish justice in Belgium. The future of Catalonia, of millions of Catalans, in the hands of two criminals. In the end, it seems he has won Puigdemont, but believe me, that gives us absolutely the same, because he wins Junqueras or he wins Puigdemont, the ones that always lose are the Catalans. Because, for you, Catalonia is only the excuse to keep your armchairs and those elites who have brought you here, who fund you and who, from time to time, ask for dialogue so that you can have more time, right? But today..., today I want to address most Catalans to whom Mr Aragonès does not represent, and to whom separatism has led to ruin. There is one possible alternative, another Catalonia is possible. A Catalonia away from hatred, division, fanaticism and sectarianism of separatism. You can count on VOX as a patriotic and honest alternative to aspire to return to this land the freedom that has been taken away from you. We will recover that united Catalonia, that free and prosperous Catalonia, which for decades was the envy of the world and which you have undertaken to destroy. Because in the face of his pact of urgency and shame, there is a project of unity, harmony and equality. And I say « shame, because among many other things, they intend to expel the National Police of Via Layetana. From here I want to move my support, my love [[some applause]] and make it very clear that we are going to defend their rights and the presence of the National Police on our land. A pact that seeks to indoctrinate our children with liberticidal ideologies, contrary to biology, anthropology and the same common sense. And by promoting, in his infamous pact, the culture of death with abortion, instead of protecting life from conception to natural death. [[Some applause.]] But look, Mr Aragonès, before your false and illegal right to decide, the amnesty and the republic, we will demand compliance with the constitutional order, the Statute of autonomy and the penal code. And we will defend, to the last consequences, national unity, our parliamentary monarchy and the full enforcement of the sentences of all those political prisoners who committed the most serious crimes of our recent history. And I take this opportunity to tell you that in the face of your false right of self-determination you will face our legitimate right of defence as a nation. Faced with the continuing violation of rights and freedoms, they will have our defence of the law. And there is a political alternative; yes. An alternative to protect Catalans from people like you. Against those who intend to continue to kidnap institutions to harass, prosecute and condemn a majority of Catalans to civilian death. Mr Aragonès, the war-civilist policies that parties like yours carry out in Catalonia for decades have deprived a majority of Catalans of political freedom, have co-opted the institutions, turning the Parliament into a real separatist circus, using the public media for their propaganda and imposing on the streets, through violence – through violence – a single discourse. You went out to the streets and said that of "Spain steals from us. And the only one who was stealing, Mr. Aragonès, was Oriol Junqueras, convicted of embezzlement of public funds to pay his separatist sham. [[Some applause.]] And tell me, Mr Aragonès, would you pose again with that sign, with that infamous slogan of "Spain in robbing us?" I think I should go back to the streets, yes, but to demand with another banner that Junqueras and the rest of the thugs return to the Catalans all the funds they embezzled. His actions have always counted, unfortunately of many, with the complacency, if not with the complicity, of the successive governments of the nation, which preferred to be able to govern in Moncloa the unity of Spain. And they allowed this suicidal project, announced and carried out in slow motion, to go on. Now all Catalans have to suffer this so-called dialogue table, which is nothing more than the betrayal table for the Spanish as a whole. It seems that Mr Sánchez, in his effort to perpetuate himself in power, wants to revive the dialogue with the separatists; a dialogue that is not such, because the reform of the crime of sedition and the granting of pardons to the coupters, is nothing more than a direct and frontal attack on all Catalans who suffered, suffer and will suffer the consequences of living under the yoke of the separatist mafia. Because as thousands of Catalans go hungry, hundreds of thousands of families can't work, and insecurity grows in all neighborhoods, Mr Sánchez and Mr Aragonès all they care about is keeping in their armchairs and their ideological rupturist agenda. Let the Spaniards know that VOX is not going to stand idly by while the betrayal is being consummated, and that, both in this chamber and in the Congress of Deputies and in the courts, we will defend the full enforcement of the penalties against those who have taken Catalonia to the edge of the precipice. Members, I have a strong determination to regain political freedom, because without freedom there is no democracy. And I have that determination because from the agreement they have signed, it is clear that they will continue to deprive hundreds of thousands of Catalans of being able to express themselves, for example, freely; of being able to use the language they want without being stigmatized; of manifesting their love for their great homeland without being attacked; of denouncing their sectarianism and moral supremacy without being censored. You have the objective of continuing to pursue those who disagree, to encourage political violence and even aggression against Catalans. In our project, however, it is up to all Catalans: the Catalans who voted for VOX and those who do not; those who speak Catalan, those who speak Spanish or those who speak indistinctly, one language or another; those who love their country girl and those who love their country big. I have the firm conviction to rebuild all that you have destroyed, defending the truth – despite you – defending freedom and beauty. Because Catalonia, Mr. Aragonès, as much as it hurts you, is much better than all of you. And because Catalonia has existed, exists and will exist, despite all of you. For every stone of hatred and confrontation you place, we will place two more, unity and harmony. For every step they take towards confrontation and political violence, we will take three more steps, to strengthen and protect the beautiful legacy we have inherited as Catalans and therefore Spanish. Mr. Aragonès, you came up here yesterday, you put on the president's jacket, the puppet hat – or puppet, as you prefer – and you have sold us the goodness of your political, economic and social project in Catalonia. You want us to forget everything you've done so far, but unfortunately hundreds of thousands of Catalans will not forget it. Because you are also fanatics of the arbitrary restrictions you have had..., which have ended up decimating the middle and working classes. He only knows the word restriction because they have been unable to offer effective solutions since the pandemic began. And thanks to you Catalonia has gone from being the engine of the nation to a region where companies flee, tourists are pointed out and workers are suffocated on a tax-based basis. They have not cut a euro of political spending to help workers. How many self - employed or small entrepreneurs could have been saved from the closure with only a fraction of TV3's million - dollar games, for example? Or how many businesses could be saved with the money you will spend on those new advices that do not respond to the real problems of Catalans? Pay attention, take a walk through the queues of hunger, which are very close to here, in many squares of Barcelona, and explain to the Catalans that while the Tertullians of TV3 charge each month, they have to go look in the streets for what you do not let them win if in their jobs. For you, the only employment policy that exists is to place your benefactors in millionaire positions. The rest of them don't care. They only care about customer networks. But, Mr Aragonès, VOX will defend the freedom and right of every worker to work and to bring a meal to his family's table. And we will do so by regaining the role of Catalonia as one of the great economic engines of Spain, guaranteeing legal certainty and not pursuing sectors such as cars or tourism, on which – by the way – the employment of thousands of our compatriots depends. But do you really believe that in the midst of the worst crisis of the past eighty years Catalans have to continue living in this real fiscal hell? But do you really believe that? Because there's no mention in the deal. Well, yes, to increase them. Do you really believe that the solution to the crisis that Catalans are suffering is to maintain those fifteen taxes of their own? Do you really believe that? Do you intend to continue building Spain's biggest fiscal hell? Along with its partners in the Government of the nation, they aspire to an unjust, irresponsible and immoral fiscal rise with the situation that Catalans and, therefore, Spaniards are going through. Crisis like this is highlighting the importance of allocating public resources to what really matters: health, education, security. And you should be focused on reducing political waste once and for all, not on raising taxes on the middle and popular classes. No one today can claim Catalonia is better now than ten years ago. No one can deny that Catalans today are poorer and that Catalonia's growth is lower than the rest of Spain. From VOX we will repeat to the satiety that it is not a problem of territorial financing, it is a problem of waste and misappropriation of public funds. To allocate – Mr Aragonès – money to the separatist agenda and to the enrichment of its associates. That is why I am announcing that we will lead a parliamentary activity aimed at ending once and for all the political waste that has been perpetrating for decades and will denounce your collection effort to maintain your client network. Paying taxes for essential services such as health, education and social services: yes. Paying taxes to increase the budget of the largest channel of hatred and propaganda of separatism – for TV3 –: no. Paying taxes to strengthen health and primary care: yes. Pay taxes to maintain a customer network with more than five hundred high charges: no. Paying taxes to improve the education and training of young people: yes. But pay taxes to finance embassies abroad, where they place fellows in millionaire posts: no. To pay taxes to ensure security on the streets and to provide protection and control measures to agents: yes. Pay taxes to subsidize ideological chiringuites and separatist entities: no. Taxes, yes, but for the important and the necessary. To protect the commons and to ensure that all Catalans enjoy the best public services and that when crises like this come the institutions are on their side. Taxes, not – and definitely not – for a project that divides, impoverishes and creates parallel structures, undermines the freedom of Catalans and perverts the purpose of institutions by putting them at their service and not that of the Catalans as a whole. Therefore, taxes are yes, but less and lower. Because it is shown that, at lower taxes, more income for the estuary, more economic activity and more money in the pockets of families and workers. That is why we will propose to eliminate from the first until the last public body you have created to enrich your friends and achieve their liberticid purposes. And we will demonstrate how saving billions of euros can improve health, education and social services. I mean, everything you guys have deteriorated. And I say to you that there will be no sanitary cordon, possible censorship or code of conduct that gags my parliamentary group. They will not prevent us from denouncing the mafia and historically misrepresentative attitude of public funds of separatism, contrary to generating employment and prosperity. Mr Aragonès, your responsibility and that of your partners in the social and economic ruin of Catalonia is a fact that admits no doubt. And there is no doubt – no matter how much you try to hide it every day – about the crisis of insecurity that our neighbourhoods and our villages are suffering and which you do not refer to in your agreement either. Their goodist policies have turned neighborhoods – our neighborhoods – into scenes of theft, assault and sexual abuse. The illegal immigration you encourage and celebrate only exacerbates the problem. And now you're gonna get out of here and accuse us of xenophobes or racists. But we don't care. Because it's not, Mr. Aragonès, it's not. Because even the last neighbor in the neighborhood of Ca n'Anglada or the city of Salt know the consequences of their multicultural policies. Because even the last legal immigrant, the one who has fulfilled all the steps and has come to our country to look for a better future – what we celebrate – knows the reality of the streets of Catalonia. And you don't have to go too far. Walk a few streets, get close to the Raval, talk to some neighbors, who are sick of insecurity, of the occupation promoted by their partners or the narcopies. And talk also to the agents who have left their lot without the necessary protection and control measures. To have safe neighborhoods we need secure borders, and the invasion of Ceuta is just one more example of our country's weakness in foreign affairs and the inability of the authorities to control the doors of our home. And you will believe that this does not affect Catalonia, but believe me that it does. Last January three jihadists were arrested in Barcelona when they proposed to attack in several places in Catalonia. The three individuals had entered our country in a patera on the coast of Almeria, without any registration, without any police control had crossed the country and settled in Barcelona waiting to organize an attack, as already happened in 2017. And I know that you don't like to talk about this subject, I know, that it makes you nervous, and that you also order your spokesmen, financed with public money, to hide all those crimes every day, but we haven't come here to remain silent. Make it very clear that in this chamber, with the eruption of VOX, to every proposal that you present to devote money to illegal immigration, to encourage multiculturalism, we will present another to deport illegal immigrants, to claim our Western civilization and to strengthen the police endowment on our streets or to equip the Mossos d'Esquadra with more anti-disturbing means so that, once and for all, the law and order will be returned to the streets. [[Some applause.]] And we will promote all the necessary legislative measures so that they do not prioritize any illegal immigrant before a Spaniard without a roof, without a job, or without bread to bring his children. And I say to you that you will count on our frontal rejection of your willingness to welcome those who Morocco has used as human rams. Catalans, we begin a chapter more in the democratic normality in which we have been settled for decades because of separatism and the left; months will come and perhaps difficult years will come, where separatism once again drags us to legal insecurity, greater division and more ruin, but I want you to know that you now have a political formation that assumes the leadership of the opposition, that will be relentless with the enemies of Catalans and freedom, and that from today we begin to build that majority necessary to recover Catalonia, our freedom and guarantee the prosperity and well-being of future generations. And be very clear, we will win, because Catalonia deserves something different from all of you, because Catalans need something different. Catalonia deserves unity and loyalty to our great homeland, Catalans need political freedom and being able to express their ideas without fear of being pointed out or attacked. Catalonia deserves its role as an economic engine of Spain, attracting new companies and guaranteeing legal certainty. Catalans need to be able to work on a fair fiscal policy and decent wages in order to form a family. Catalonia deserves an educational system free from ideological impositions and separatist indoctrination. Catalans need to be able to study in Spanish and educate their children according to their convictions. Catalonia deserves a realistic migration policy, far from the already failed multicultural societies and adapted to the needs of our region. Catalans need security in the streets and can walk around their neighborhoods without fear of being harassed or assaulted. Catalonia, in short, does not deserve politicians like you, Catalans do not need Mr Aragonès or the rest of his government. Before I finished, I wanted to dedicate three lines to Mrs Borràs, who has again demonstrated her sectarianism by refusing to inform our king of the debate that is taking place here today, a further demonstration of the separatist contempt towards the majority of Catalans who feel as their own the crown, guarantor of order and coexistence. My thanks once again to His Majesty Philip VI for his speech of 3 October and for being responsible, together with civil society, for curbing the separatist coup of 2017. [[Greetings.]] As I said, Catalonia does not deserve politicians like you. The Catalans do not need either Mr Aragonès or the rest of his government, because Catalonia is much more than all of you. Abandon all hope, abandon all hope and know that with VOX the separatist circus in which they have turned this chamber has ended, by Catalonia, by Spain and by all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.3.0	Then, to answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.4.0	Thank you very much. Very honourable President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, very good morning. Very good morning to you all. The fight against inequality, the fight against injustice, the fight against the miseries that the economic system, which political dynamics provoke to our society is a moral empire and it is a moral empire because our political action, the political action of this republican majority in favour of self-determination, of the progressive majority that also exists in this Parliament, is a guide to the principles of freedom, equality and fraternity, without looking at the origin, without looking at the language that is spoken, without looking at the ideology, without looking at the personal conditions, without looking at the genera, without looking at how someone wants to estimate or how someone wants to decide about the propi ce. Therefore, the Republican values we defend in this chamber because, as I said, the fight against inequality is a moral empire for itself, always. Before any situation of inequality, before two human beings in which one is in the poor and the other has abundance, the challenge of politics, the political obligation we have is to reduce these inequalities, is to guarantee a dignified life for everyone. And if that is always the case, if this has always guided the political action of the political traditions represented in this Parliament, which go much further than that represented by my party, of which my parliamentary group represents, than also those represented by the Members and Members who today will support me to be president of Catalonia, there has been much more than that, there are other political forces who also make this moral empire because the struggle for equality is inseparable from our political compromise; if that is always the case, it is still more than anyone who wants to use this inequality, who wants to use this misery, who wants to use this injustice to divide our society; who wants to use it to create citizenship and to build it in the future; who wants to build it in the first place and in the second place. And, therefore, also the struggle against inequality, against injustices, against misery is a moral empire. Not because of the value you have only in yourself this fight, but also to fight hate, to fight the extreme right. Mr. Garriga, you will not pass – you will not pass. [[Greetings.]] A political project, a speech – to put it mildly – that begins to qualify the democratic institutions of our country as'mafia' is disqualified for itself. This Parliament represents the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia. This Parliament has only been closed twice: for the Francoism, 1939, and it was put up for 155. [[Greetings.]] I, every time it's tanky, every time we open it again, with the strength of the citizenry and with the strength of the votes. Therefore, I will not devote more time to the reply of a speech that is given the reply with the same common sense of citizenship, which is much greater than you claim and simplify with your speeches. Speeches that are not us, that we have heard them at the length of history and that have then been continued for the darkest periods of humanity; speeches that we see them in other territories, that we see them in other places of the world, where these inequalities – that we have to be able to fight and be able to overcome – many times end up being a space where populist discourses, where extremist discourses like yours, find the ideal atmosphere to be able to develop. Therefore, before hatred: human consciousness. In the face of today's hatred and in the face of his interventions, today's announcement that we will respond to the humane situation in Ceuta and Melilla, bringing together the children who are close to us, which is necessary. [[applause]] because solidarity is that – because solidarity is that... And I'll end up with a quote, with a quote from one of Ireland's independence peers, James Connolly, an Irish Republican and Socialist leader; he said: "Authentic patriotism seeks the welfare of every man's happiness. And this isn't his. [[Greetings.]] Many thanks, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.5.0	You have the word to answer Mr. Ignacio Garriga, for a time of four minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.6.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr. Aragonès, nothing new – nothing new. Let me say to you: "They will not pass, I tell you that we have passed, we will pass and, sooner than later, we will evict them from all the institutions of Catalonia." [[Greetings.]] And yes, Mr. Aragonès, they behave like a mafia. They have embezzled public funds, create customer networks to place their palm trees. That's behaving like a mafia. And do you fill your mouth with talk of inequalities? , when it is you who have stolen Catalans for decades to devote it to their ideological, rupturistic agenda, and neglecting the social and economic emergencies that Catalans suffered. That's really fighting for equality. Stop stealing from Catalans, reduce political spending and target it to improve health, education and ensure security. That is what you should do, and not talk so much about equality or inequality, but acts to show that you really want to combat those inequalities, that we are sure that you care – as I said before – absolutely nothing about the real problems of Catalans. And yes, you have tainted the institutions in Catalonia, you have kidnapped them for decades, you have perpetrated a coup d'état in this chamber. And let me rebut something obvious: there is no sovereignty of Catalonia. The only sovereignty that exists is national sovereignty, which resides in the Spanish people. [[Greetings.]] That is the only sovereignty that exists. The rest are inventions, they are lies to continue to advance in his idea, in his ideological delusions, while, from behind, they continue to place all his friends and embezzle public funds. But that's over. Because, since Vox broke into this chamber, we're going to monitor all his movements and we're going to sit them in court for every troupe or every illegality they commit. [[Some applause.]] And you said that we used to take advantage of inequalities, our speech... No, look, it's that, unlike all of you, we're talking about the real problems that affect Catalans, that you permanently, by the hand of your media-funded spokespersons, permanently silence. You don't talk about illegal immigration, you don't talk about insecurity, you don't talk about so many barracks in the schools of Catalonia, you don't talk about how you have been promoting hatred, confrontation and division among Catalans for decades. Because you have perfectly controlled the media and all the bodies of power to further advance on your ideological and rupturist agenda. But I'm telling you, this is over. This legislature starts with a political formation that will denounce – as I said – all its violations of the freedom and rights of all Catalans. And, look, you said Catalonia is going to welcome those who, as I said, Morocco used as human rams. You will be able to sell it as you wish, but the reality is that, today, Moroccan families are looking for their children and claiming that they crossed the wrong borders. And you're going to be complicit in the kidnapping of those children by your families. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, what you should do is to return them immediately to your families, which is where you should be. Because every child has to be with his father and his mother. That's what Vox stands for. The future of these children, where they are best, is in their country of origin, with their father and mother. And, as we see with the news of the last few hours – because it is real – it seems that some were launched – as I said – as human rams, under the pretext that Cristiano Ronaldo was going to hold a match in Ceuta, and you are going to be accomplices to this kidnapping. You yourselves. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, Mr Aragonès, lessons of democracy, equality and freedom that have been generating division, confrontation, and hatred for forty years: none. We will show you from this rostrum, and to all Catalans, above all, that it is possible and it is necessary to rebuild that Catalonia that you have destroyed for decades, to build the low unity, harmony and freedom, and there will be Vox in spite of you. And, I repeat, there will be no sanitary cord, no banners, no code of conduct that silences us, because we have not come here to please you but to give voice to all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.7.0	Mr. Garriga, in order not to miss the truth... [[relays]] , so as not to miss out on the truth [[remorse of the voice]] , which is what you did when I didn't make a communication, know that there is an electronic mail and will proceed to make the communication by means of the 21st century. Thank you. Next is the words of Maria Dolors Sabater, president of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.8.0	Good morning to everyone, who I am present here, to this chamber, to this chamber, and to the people who follow us through retransmission, and thanks, a thank you to all the people who with the work you have made possible that you can celebrate this plenary and that you can spread media. Before we begin, and in addition to the shows of solidarity that have already been made, that have made the groups that have preceded us, that have already expressed themselves, we want to make a special mention of the people who are fighting and suffering war, imperialism, looting and extreme repression. All solidarity for the Palestinian and Colombian people, and an explicit denunciation of the violent situation of oppression and flagrant violation of their rights. Solidarity also with all migrants who suffer from the violence and racism of border crossings. A rape and racism that yesterday, when we started this plenary, the President of the Parliament quoted us with whispers of people, mortal victims, more than six hundred, who have died murdered in this border blockade of the Mediterranean. All our recollection to the people retaliated for the Spanish State, to the southern border these days in Ceuta and Tarahal, concretely. The militarization of the borders is the expression of Spanish and European hypocrisy which is erected as a ram of human rights, solely for the defence of these human rights, for some nationalities. This way of acting supports a racist, classist and colonial system, which exploits racial, feminist and impoverished bodies in order to sustain itself. Therefore, we demand the immediate cessation of returns by the army, and the urgent action of the Generality. Now we were listening to Mr. Aragones say that they were already willing to do, to put all these resources necessary for the gathering, especially of the children, who are the most violent all through this oppression. The geopolitical struggle operation that prioritizes, once more, capital and the interests of state over people's lives. From here, too, today, all the support for the mobilization that has taken place today, now, from here to an estona, to the gironine comarques, against the abuses and neglect of the foreign office of the Spanish government's subdelegation to Girona. Dissortedly, the list of mentions and solidarity and complaint could be endless. The tank now reiterating, once again, all solidarity with the people of political reprisals, and in a special way to the prisoners and exiles, and more than 3,300 people persecuted judicially and economically in the mark of this state of permanent exception against independence. Today, here, we also present the parliamentarian who cannot be here, like Mr Puig Gordi, with the people who have to follow this House from prison and from exile. We demand amnesty, we want it immediately, that repression be ended, and that this amnesty be kept without matter. Proper repression, pro-persecution of self-determination. We want them all home and we want them already. And this is a majority claim of the Catalan society, a claim of the least that plays, that confronts, that confronts the nature of the State, its governments and the parties of the regime, like the PSOE. Yes, Mr. Illa, like your party, that has not even allowed the debate on amnesty to Congress. And I remind you that parliamentary – and here we are in Parliament – "parliamentary means talking, talking, discussing, reaching agreements, reaching solutions. And you – you – do not allow this debate to take place on admission to Congress, and you are conniving, and you continue to pursue the Speaker of Parliament, Mrs Forcadell, and all the Bureau of Parliament that is in these times repressed for allowing a debate. It seems, therefore, that they do not get along with how difficult it is not to allow debate. And you're talking about dialing. MPs, MPs, we have a country in democratic, climate, economic and social emergence, we have a very, very exhausted population, we are disappointed by political behaviour, we have huge and difficult fronts, and we are not going to lose time and energy in either party or decision-making that we already know are wrong. The enemy that sets us up is very powerful and dangerous. I must fight it, confront it and fight it. It is an enemy that generates inequality, injustice, fables and oppression; it generates violence and death, and it is called capitalism, it is called patriarchy, it is called fascism, it is called intolerance, it is called totalitarianism. The big country projects..., the big country projects always go as far as the rowers do, which are moving forward to a horizon without ever letting go of looking back. Because past, present and future intercondition and the arrival of those who have struggled, built and brought before us, all the lessons afterward – and we have many in the last few days – make us say with much strength and with full awareness that what we have in our hands is vital, it is vital for the country and for the lives of all who are part of it, who are already there and who will come. We have a great responsibility at a critical moment and we can make the decisions that are uncertain; we can't repeat the old formulas of the past, which we already know have failed. And as what we decide here will determine the country and people's lives, in relation to everything: landscape, language, community life, sovereignty, freedom, social cohesion, opportunities, access to culture, respect for human rights, it will determine everything, because we will legislate here, here are decisions that will be taken from the government, we are talking that what we decide here will determine people's lives, will determine whether a person has a home or not in tea, whether they can fill the fridge or not, will determine whether they are engaged and persecuted, or not. And obviously it won't be the same if we don't change the way we do it, so let's turn it into politics and if we don't change the course of economic, social and civil rights policies that we've had so far: change them, transform them because it's not as always that the most vulnerable people, the usual, are the ones who end up paying for the brutal crisis that leaves this pandemic, together with the ones we've already brought. And because it's not the same as always, that those who don't adjust to hegemonic canons are still patenting exclusion and discrimination. Because once and for all you can live with dignity from cross-sectional diversity. And it's not the same if we take decisions that bind the territory, praying to the interests of the great oligopolises of the IBEX, it's not the same as if we plan and drive an economic transformation to the territory, to the service of the people, of its sovereignty, and assume the climate reptes that the planet has. We will not have the same country or the same lives if we face housing as a lucrative business that protects the interests of banks and of the great tenors and the willful foundations than if we defend it as an elementary basic right to build a future with freedom. And how will it not be the same if we invest in public services or private fortunes, whether we make inclusive educational policies or segregate them, or it is the same to put the capital in the center that we put all the voids there, I now demand that we make an effort to think about what consequences each of the policies we are developing have: we really want to keep the repressive police machinery that is pro-actively pursuing protest and dissent or we want to strengthen a human security system in the service of rights and life that actively pursues facsimism and physical discrimination and that contributes to community prevention and welfare? We're very clear about what the option is. And I want to remind you that many days ago Olot is being held another time by people who are actively protesting against fascism and that the police are always more forcefully pursuing those who are confronted than those who are perpetrating hate crimes. And that's what we have to finish. How can we not continue praying to the interests of capital and oligarchies that support this demophobic, patriarchal, militaristic and predatory state, diem: prous submissive, prous detailes of the Constitutional Court, prous repression and persecution, prous monarchy, prous regim of 78, prou IBEX 35, prou 135 and 155, prou vassallatage, prou prou prout prous prous protectionisme, prou encubriar la corruptione. And as long as confrontation ends, confrontation is essential because within the State, and we have demonstrated it with all the feelings of the Constitutional Court, with all the persecutions, within the State, we do not have our rights, neither civilians nor social ones. They don't fit, and so we have to go over it, it's an obligation we have. I'm asking them to do an exercise today... since there's been a lot of talk, too, isn't there? When we begin the legislature of the future, as everything we do will condition the future, which we have for a moment, in this hemicicle that we are adults, we place in the center the youngest people, who have the most future ahead: infants, adolescents and young people. And let's think about how this Parliament acts before information, from concrete data so alarming as, for example, that one of every three creatures, of every three smaller than one year, one of every three is at risk of poverty; it's 31 per cent, almost 500,000 infants and young people. It's a fact that we only need to have enough of this to make clear what the full route of this country is. Because protecting the vital rights and welfare of childhood and youth should be an unquestionable priority. And we know that 50 percent of single-parent seas are either living out of the submerged economy or unemployed. We know that we have a 34_percent of the youth rate between the youngest of twenty-five years and that in the thirty-four years two_of_three young– two_of_three– still could not emancipate. There are alarming data also on school segregation, inequality in educational success. And we know that we find ourselves at a point of inflection and that we have to decide whether to make a course to resolve these inequalities or take a course to strengthen them. We have already called it other times, but the data of mental salvation, of suicides among the young people are very serious, and this is happening in our country, it is happening in this country that we start today – we will start – a new full road, a new legislature. In these last few weeks we have seen again, with the right to housing, how the police violently break up with their anti-disturbing in order to promote misdemeanours and to go against those who defend the right to housing. Yes, we have seen it again, and with this, with these very harsh charges on the part of Mossos d'Esquadra, who have accompanied themselves, more and more, with insults, vexations against the people who were trying to put up with the misdemeanours... And, therefore, let us say again, Mr Aragonès: the intervention of antidisturbing in denunciations must be completed immediately, already, there have been no masses. It will also be necessary to prohibit them, denunciations. We'll say it and fight it every day, housing is a right that can guarantee, no one can be expelled from their home. As long as no one has to pay more than 30_per_cent of their income for housing. And let's remember: in Catalonia we have thirty thousand empty floors between benches, Sareb and background back. If we have it here, we just have to expropriate all these floors, guarantee the right to housing for everyone. Because that's just the tip of the iceberg. The backs and the big tenors, the banks are negotiating with a phone book. And, besides, I don't know if you know the bureaucratic peril of what families are going to face, that they are the ones who have to prove their vulnerability – they are careful, of the twelve trials of Obèlix and Asterix, that are short. They should be the great tenors, the voltors who, in any case, should do the work to prove that they have the right to dislodge someone from their habitation. I recommend, in truth, very sincerely, that I vacate to put up with denunciations, that they follow in a short distance, that they know the families, that they know about this reality. And I assure you that doing so is the greatest master you can do to hear about public housing policies. We need to increase this public housing park, we need to take real measures to fight this poor, who also goes through public service basics of electricity, water, and gas sub-administrations. Because there has been much talk here of fighting inequalities, of fighting the poor, but I say to them: the poor is not fighting by making more food banks, it is not fighting by making great recipes, the poor is fighting by making structural changes in the way this society works, it is fighting by implementing universal basic income, for example, which is one of the first that we can push, that we defend it every day until it is a reality. We will also defend the transformation of the product model. We have a brutal economic crisis, with the loss of more than 75,000 jobs, with the shutdown of almost three thousand small and medium-sized enterprises. We have people who are working, who have a salary, but 15_per_cent are at risk of poverty. We've got the ERTOS, which now, May 31st, will be over by now the extension to gather there. And this crisis we can't do is confront it with the usual mechanisms. Because we already know that capitalism is failing, we need to put in place a new way of reactivating the economy, with a vision of economic transition, repulsion and industrial conversion and of various forms of feminist, cooperative, social and solidary economy, circular, regulating the abusive interests to the payment of local loguers and public finance lines, generating labor cooperatives through the social and solidary economy, from the absorption of enterprises considered essential for the public sector. We have many mechanisms – many mechanisms – to really reverse the very serious situation of inequality, poverty, precariousness of most people in this country. This issue of the firm steps towards the deprivation of public services will also be one of those that we will pursue, follow and want to make possible, because we cannot accept, we cannot continue to accept that the pressures of the boards of administration of electricity, or of the companies that manage the water, the light, the gas, the transport or the telecommunications, these strategic sectors are dependent on the profitable interests of the companies and are capable of doing things so violent – so it is a brutal violation – such as cutting the light, cutting the electrical sub-administration into cold loads, leaving a lot of people without basic services to waste. That's why we said it, and we'll follow it, and we'll pursue it, we'll persist until we get a public energy, a public pharmaceutical, and a public bank. This feeling of confrontation and breaking the seams of the Constitutional Court, breaking the seams of this system under the capital and the IBEX is the same that makes us in full decision to walk, continue walking towards independence. Mirin, this is what we have been seeing since 2012, not fighting in the streets and in the self-organisation, but after the Generality has been restored since 2012..., the parties that defend, from different ideological origins and from different political traditions, that owe to their program a concrete proposal to overcome the conflict between the Catalan people and the Spanish State, which is a reference of self-determination, have been present and have completed fourteen electoral processes – fourteen – where the forces that understand that Catalans and Catalans have to decide freely and democratically their future have always achieved vast majority voting as well as absolute representatives of these votes. Therefore, let us be demagogic – let us be demagogic. Who followed the state's response? Threats, criminalization, political persecution, repression, a democratic government overthrown, a disbanded parliament, thousands of wounded and thousands of people involved in legal proceedings, with economic and political repression, arrested, exiled... This was the response of the State. And let me be clear: the refusal of the democratic solution to the repression has not changed from the PP government to the PSOE coalition government, it has not changed. The answer to this majority proposal at the polls is the same: negative and repression. Our aspirations are directly affected by this system of the 78th Regime, which is shaped by economic elites such as IBEX 35, the corrupt monarchy, the clerics and the Francoist heritage in many structures and, ultimately, a more centralistic and reactionary state. It may be clear and it may touch from little to little. Under the current conditions, a dialog table like there is now will not lead us to a solution of the conflict, but rather will serve as a pretext for stabilizing and normalizing a flagrant situation of systemic suspension of social, civil and political rights in a permanent framework of political exception. We already know who the consequences of October 2017 were, they have remained strong. And this paralyzing repression did not only involve this flagrant repression, but also sharpened the party and sharpened the eternal battle to reach the Secretariat of the Presidency of the Generality as the final goal. We need to get through this stage. I need to get over it. With all the learnings of these years, it would really open a new political cycle of struggle. Independence must be its demands and potential – it has clearly proved them in this popular empowerment of October 1 and 3 – it must rebuild a true full road to independence and fight to build a country serving the social majority, the working people. And to do so defend our collective sovereignty. They can't separate the two fights, they can't separate. We won't just do it with politics. We won't just do it from the parties, from the institutions. We will do this together with social mobilizations, with street mobilizations, but at the political level, at the party level, at the government level, we can put the power quotas back together and actually go for the majority objective. We're going to have to reactivate ourselves, and we're going to have to remobilize. And, above all, it will be necessary to look beyond the international community. Today, precisely, fifteen days ago, the victory of Scottish independence, which has already announced that it will push for a new referendum. See if it's easy. And to make it clear and to be explicit: it will not be easy. The difficulties are many and to build this new playing ground, which opens up the real possibilities of a political change to generate conditions of self-determination, to exercise full sovereignty and to rebuild this independent Catalan republic, to all, to all, determined, persistent, without a yielding tempt and without losing energy, efficiency or strength in the cockabarella to seek guilty out of those who are actually preventing us from exercising this right to self-determination. I'm making a notice for navigators. Today we will vote, give new votes to the candidate, to Mr Pere Aragonès, as President of the Generality. We will vote for him and we fully agree with a compromise, because he has bought himself – and he has said so clearly – to complete all and every agreement made with us until today. But we also warn that these new votes and this endorsement of the agreement we made are not a blank check. They're not a white check because that was a minimum deal. The least they have to do is direct the legislature to the left, but they have to go much further. And, therefore, we, our commitment is to make these new votes and continue to struggle to achieve, to face this social situation of the country in an immediate and urgent way. And we want signals and we've said it, and it's obvious. If the repression against the housing defense movement is not stopped during the next weeks and there is no search and find a way to remove anti-disturbing from the denunations, the CUP - A new cycle to win will be very difficult, it will not be able to sustain this parliamentary majority. It has to be proven that this starts from today, from this very day. We also tell him, Mr Aragonès, that this independenceist majority, who also donated a majority of the leftovers in and out of independence, requires that steps be taken from the announcements and statements, which go in this line, to the concrete fact of action. I know that we – and we have said this clearly – are not at the table of the dialog, we do not believe it. We think that this is a bet that has already proved to be unsuccessful, but we will respect that this way – what we consider a dead path – we will respect that you participate in it, but we ask you and the rest of the independent actors, that we also unblock the dialog here, that we make this agreement for self-determination, that we start working to really advance not just to make the reference, but to sustain its outcome. We'll leave our hair there. The CUP - A new cycle to win we are spearhead to defend social and political rights, to advance nationally and socially. And we'll do it vigilantly and make a couple of considerations to the company and companies that are out, that stay out of these agreements that we're voting for today, to vote for the investiture of Mr. Aragones. I am addressing, in this sense, in a special way to the companies and companies of the commons and to all people who from a perspective of the left criticize that we, from the UPC, from this perspective radically feminist, anti-capitalist, are supporting an investiture that will include in their government Junts per Catalunya. And I demand and recommend that you leave this hostile position with the major popular movement that has taken place in this country, the biggest popular movement of self-organization, of disobedience that has taken place in Europe. And I only do it by asking them to join this crack to overthrow the regime, this cracking crack, and I do it by reminding them of a sentence by Comrade Joaquim Maurin saying: "Can the national liberation movement be a revolutionary reinforcement? Yeah? Well, we have to encourage it. Finally, we want to address Mr. Pedro Sánchez and Philip VI. Gentlemen, we have a lot of bad news for you, for you and for the interests you defend: we are still poor. After the great repression of 2017, we continue to be depressed. As many times as we fall, so many times we will rise up, as always did this people, grab the kingly thread of history so as not to lose our dark moments, and always with the freedom of our people at the hour. Let's turn it back into a ram to win the social and political rights that the State denies us and to build the Catalan Republic's freedom and social rights. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.9.0	Then has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, with unlimited time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.10.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Consellers, consellers, deputy deputies, deputy Sabater and deputy deputies of the Popular Unity Candidature - - A new cycle to win. First of all, many thanks for the support, thank you for this trust that you have in my investment on the basis of an agreement that we have been working on, an agreement that is a good agreement, that is a minimum agreement that we will develop, that we will expand, that we will deepen, and in which they will find all the predisposition and all the will to deepen in this agreement. It is precisely because this agreement clearly marks the inseparable element between the struggle for the national liberation of our country, the struggle for the independence of Catalonia and the struggle for social justice, with concrete proposals, with clear commitments that we will work to achieve as soon as possible, and also with starting points. We start from positions in some areas of differentiated economic and social axes, different looks from the left, but we have been able to build a shared minimum, and from here we have to go deeper. We've got this honest workmark, and I think that's very important. As we say, concrete proposals. A great effort has been made, and I think we have to value all the efforts made by this independent and progressive majority that we will make today, we will put the new government of Catalonia out of the way, and we have done so because the moment and opportunity are worth it, we are required to do so. We've been able to conjure ourselves up to give the 52 percent independence vote to the last elections and transform the country, and transform it. The initiator of Mrs Dolors Sabaté's intervention has made it very clear that when we speak of "shared struggles, and this phrase, therefore, made popular the activist Jordi Cuixart and that we have all felt ours, when we speak of "shared struggles we do not speak only of shared struggles within our country, in the region of Catalonia or of the Catalan Countries, but also of universal struggles. And, therefore, the rights of the armed people, the struggle against inequalities, the reptiles of economic and social changes, the struggle against patriarchy, are struggles that our place to do so is in Catalonia, but they are universal struggles that we must make our own and that we must also learn from the experiences that these struggles bring to an end in other places on the planet, and that we must also learn the corresponding lessons. We have a lot of lines ahead, probably with different languages, but we're referring to the same. The challenges of how we reverse inequalities and convert this situation that causes inequality into a new way of producing, consuming, distributing, generating shared prosperity. As we transform this economic system that has generated inequalities, and that we have seen with the pandemic as some of the background trends, and yesterday I was also trying, therefore, to share it with all of you, has accelerated, and that we collectively govern it or will be governed from... so, exclusively from a market optics that at the time of talking about rights, the rights do not subdue to the market, and I think we need to have it present. Also the need to overthrow the patriarchal system in all its dimensions, with the last multiple oppressions that these create, and, therefore, is essential this cross-sectional look to reverse all oppressions, and, therefore, it also means to reverse all privileges, which are the other side of the coin of these oppressions. He's made reference to hegemonic canons that generate discrimination, and he needs to subtrace it. Perhaps some canons of these are hegemonic, but precisely because they are not majority in the population, we are obliged to reverse them, and will find them in the Government, the Popular Unity Candidate, an ally in this sense. The clear bet for the creation of an ad hoc structure that places in the beautiful mig of the Government what is the maximum compromise in the fight for equality through a council of feminisms and equality has this feeling, and we will fully involve ourselves. It's not just a structure, it's not just a structure, it's not just moving forward with the creation of a council, we know perfectly well, but it will be a tool to place from the very first moment always this cross-sectional look and this feminist compromise in all and every policy and decision taken by the government. And so is this change in democratic terms. Yesterday I referred to four major transformations: social, green, feminist and democratic. And I think, in other words, we're talking about these shared objects, these shared struggles, and we're going to put people in the center. Totally fine. I would like to thank him for giving us the opportunity, because he expressed it clearly in this debate..., to have the opportunity to talk in this debate about the investment of the young people of our country, of the children of our country and of the adolescents of our country. Young people who have been victims in a few years of two crises, the crisis of 2008, which impoverished their families, who many at the time of joining the labour market, therefore limited opportunities and strengthened an already very precarious dynamic, and the crisis caused by the covid-19, which is also an emotional crisis and which also causes anxiety today, today the difficulties in emotional well-being and mental health on the part of our people are greater difficulties than it was a year and a half ago. And we must be able to fight it. We need to deal with the anguish and uncertainty that spreads throughout a generation of young people in this country. They have made a great effort in this past year, to limit social interaction to protect the most vulnerable around them, to limit their interaction at a time when it is a stage of life in which you want to enjoy it to the maximum and, therefore, we know the effort, which is added to these precarious situations that have been going on for a long time. And, therefore, I believe that today there is also the opportunity..., and I am grateful that, having thought of that, we are given the opportunity to place it clearly in this debate: the young people of Catalonia. I want to make a historical record. Many years ago an ancient mayor of my municipality, socialist leader and defender of self-determination, Manuel Serra and Moret, made a booklet from exile, from Perpinya, in which he made a call to the Catalan youth. I think we need to make a new appeal to young Catalans today, which is a compromise. The country is in debt with the young people of this country. And this deuteronomy must be returned in the form of decisions and commitments; it must be returned in the form of public services that assure them that they can rebuild life projects that have been strangled and wiped out by the pandemic and a follow-up; a follow-up without any form of paternalism, but empowering them, helping them to emancipate themselves. I believe that young people in this country must, and this must be and is a clear compromise of my Government and a clear compromise that we must take in this Parliament. The young people of this country deserve it. [[Some applause.]] Young people who also see inequalities in themselves are not a homogeneous collection. You know that. It is also different how this crisis affects due to the economic condition of families in young people, depending on whether you..., if, then, they are also victims of other oppressions, if..., also of their characteristics, therefore, I believe that this defense of young people and this return to young people is absolutely essential. On the good side of the CUP speech, I share the complaint that has been made of many of the difficulties we have here. On the reverse of these difficulties, on the reverse of this situation there must be hopes, because that is why we commit ourselves politically and collectively; before a situation of difficulties, put hopes and commitments. And I think there are many expectations and commitments set out in the agreement we signed and above all in which we must be able to develop. And that has to start with a high self-requirement. That is why it is absolutely opportune to qualify the agreement that we have reached between the Republican Left and the CUP, and that, therefore, is in addition to this agreement that we have also reached with Juntes for Catalonia and that gives it the start of the government, as a minimum agreement. I've told the engineer and I'm committed to it. We will work, amplify it from different viewpoints, but finding shared points to make, therefore, this situation of anxiety of so many people, turn it into hope. I think the country absolutely needs it. And we must start from an idea that has always guided what is the realization of the republican values that we want to defend, the idea of republican freedom. Republican freedom, which is freedom based on the absence of domination. I tried to refer to the first speech of the first investment debate. Republican freedom is that in which a person is free if there is no strength to master his will from the outside, be a State against civil and political rights, be the market, forcing him to some material conditions that make it impossible to have a project of autonomous, propitious, emancipated life. And this requires that there be a few minimum materials, that there be a few minimum materials with which to develop your own life plan. And in this sense redistribution must also serve this purpose, because everyone can develop a life project with absolute freedom, without the conditions of the economic situation of the family where it was born and which, therefore, can project towards the future, with all its talent, all its strength and all its rights. And these minimum materials are concrete in some of the proposals that are being put forward in other places, which we must be able to open up debates, make pilot plans and work on. And, in this sense, the pilot plan that has to get us moving to work on universal basic income is an opportunity that we have to take very seriously, with all the compromise, because we have an opportunity to change the look on what it means to be a citizen and what it means to be a citizen's freedom, understood as this republican freedom. Therefore, a high self-requirement. And this will only be possible, all the challenges that we have set in the social, economic, environmental, feminist sphere, but also in the terms of the national freedom of full independence that we want for our country, if we are able to force the most broad alliances, because the alliances that we want to overcome the current situation, as the larger ones follow, the stronger they will be, the more indisputable they will be. And this has to be the objective. And the National Accord for Self-Determination and Amnesty is a key piece to move forward in this sense. We cannot think that the struggle that has brought to the end previous generations in these great ideals of national freedom and social justice now we are able to do so differently, because we are more intelligent, because we have arrived here. No, no, We will be able to produce different results if we have more self-requirement, if we make our learnings from previous generations, if we make our learnings from our lives vicudes also in later years and where we have seen weakened, build fortitudes and where we see threats, we can turn it into opportunities. I think it's absolutely necessary. And this learning must allow us to be much stronger. We've got a whole way ahead of us. I think that today, touching a few on the ground, I am very aware of the difficulties that we will have, I am very aware that this, in the best of the cases, will be very complicated, but in the best of the cases we will also have the opportunity to achieve our objectives, I think that today we are starting to walk. I would like to thank the People's Union candidate for his vote today, I would also like to thank his vote in the previous investiture debate, I think we have worked, as I said, honestly, with a loyalty that has been won on the basis of divestitures, but also divestitures that represent commitments, and those minimums that are commitments, but above all I would like us not to stay here and to be able to appreciate whatever future agreements we have to be able to make. So, thank you very much. Today, therefore, we begin to walk much harder and count on this whole new future to build, with contributions, with knowledge of doing, with collective intelligence, with disruptive gaze and with compromise always with the people who have demonstrated the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.11.0	Then you have the word to answer Mr. Carles Riera, for fourteen-minute space.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Mrs Dolors Sabater has already said this, but I think that at a time like this it is necessary to repeat it once more, and many as ever. We can't celebrate this plethora of investiture without making any mention of the people behind us, beyond our country as well, who are patenting injustice and oppression. Therefore, I want to add to the record, to the solidary record that Congresswoman Dolors Sabater has made with the people who are patenting at the border of Ceuta. Also our record of solidarity, our absolute solidarity, with the Palestinian people who are patenting the apartheid policy of the State of Israel, as well as with the people who are fighting in the streets of Colombia, from the world. Indeed, our national and social liberation project is also a project with global and therefore international responsibility. But today we also want to have a lot of presences – we want to have a lot of presences – all the people who suffer, all the people who suffer in our house too, still the effects of accumulated crises to which they have given themselves always inadequate responses and which have always increased the effects of these crises even more. People who suffer today still the effects of this crisis that the pandemic has sharpened, people who still suffer problems in their health, in their economic and social situation, unworkable people, people without admissions, people in precariousness, people who are disbanded and people who suffer repression – also from the Generality – when they come out on the street to protest against these injustices. Miri, we – we – want the Catalan institutions to be a wall, a wall against injustice, against all injustices, and in defense of social, economic, civil, political, human rights to the Catalan countries and the world, solidarily. And that's what we've come here to do, unbridledly – unbridledly – to defend rights, to fight against all injustices, to make Catalan institutions run from the Catalan countries, back to say it, be a wall at the side of the people and plant in front of oppression, to all oppressions. But we have also come to bury the walls that prevent us from absolving these rights, these individual and collective rights, the walls of capital—capitalism, yes, let us make it clear—and also of its allies in our country. The walls of the 78th Regime, the walls of a Spanish State clinging to the past and unable, absolutely unable, even with a left government, to offer any democratic proposal to facilitate the Catalan people's free and democratic exercise of their political future. Mirin, we believe that on February 14th he endorsed these objectives, endorsed these commitments and these aims, turned left and, therefore, endorsed, reinforced a political change in these institutions, with a firm and determined compromise in defense of the social rights and economic rights of the entire population, and an independenceist turn, with majorities that endorse the exercise of self-determination despite the opposition of the State, despite the fact that the State does not want to offer a democratic resolution of the conflict. And indeed, as a result of this clear message, of this clear mandate of the 14th of February, it is necessary to start the legislature, and this has been our commitment and our effort until today itself. It meant to generate a camp, a territory of struggle, a space of struggle in which we can last all these battles, our battles for a change in this country. And that's why we support your investiture today, Mr. Pere Aragonès. It is to open this field of play, this camp of struggle in which we can develop and hard at the end of these battles. Obviously, all this facilitated by the fact that we have actually reached an agreement with the Republican Left, with you, an agreement that is absolutely minimal in the land of civil rights, anti-pressive struggle, economic rights, protection of the territory, social rights, economic rights, defense of public services. Absolutely minimal. I, with which you are of the least, are absolutely irrefutable – absolutely irrefutable. And we have also reached an agreement with Esquerra Republicana and Juntes for Catalonia, and I remind them of the literality of the agreement you signed: a democratic debate for exercising self-determination in this legislature; a democratic debate with the State, a democratic confrontation with the State, so that self-determination can be exercised in this legislature. And the agreements are complete; the commitments are complete. Even so, as I said, they are absolutely minimal agreements, well extended from our political agenda, well extended from what are our transformation objectives of this country. Obviously, we did not give up more ambitious objectives; we did not give up our political programme of profound and radical transformation of our society in favour of social rights, economic rights, civil and political rights of all the people, and we will continue to struggle; we will continue to fight from the streets, from the assemblies and from these institutions in order to ease them. And, look, Mr Aragones, listening to your answer to Congresswoman Dolors Sabater, honestly, I don't think we're talking about the same thing. We're not fooling each other, are we? We're not fooling each other either. We're not talking about the same thing. We do not talk about regulating or mating the causes of injustice or inequality. We are talking about overcoming, breaking down, the structural causes that cause these injustices and inequalities. And that's why capitalism, patriarchy. Miri, we are not talking about regularism, about controlling fascism or racism; we are talking about eradicating it – about eradicating it. So, I don't think we always talk about the same thing. We have also come to agreements of a minimum, agreements that allow us to set this legislature in motion, and, therefore, we are willing and willing to work together to make these minimum possible, without renouncing our objectives, which go beyond that. It may be said, however, that some of the agreements that Esquerra Republicana and the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning we have signed we must note that they do not appear in their government pact with Juntes for Catalonia. The two formations bet for a dialog table with the State; a dialog table which, frankly, from our point of view, will not have any results. Miri, in the best of cases, in the best of scenes, they can offer them some measure of grace, always to change of estabilité and good behavior, of compromises in the autonomic mark. Look, we don't agree with this, obviously. We believe that what it is to generate all that instability, all that disruption that allows a space of freedom to open up and that the struggle of the people of this town has the possibility of becoming reality. The struggles of the people, the struggles of the people, the struggles of the mobilized society require – they require – this instability, this imbalance in the structures of power, in the structures of the regime, in order to open up locks and be able to be realized. Our commitment, the fact of being in institutions on our part, is precisely, also, so as to generate this instability in the State and in the regime. There have also been very important agreements in the fields of public policies, renewable energies, territorial protection, health, education, the defence of the right to housing, which do not appear in his government pact with Juntes per Catalunya or which do not appear in the terms in which we have granted it, remain in a more ambiguous, more indeterminate land. Listen to me, one thing as much as the other, the fact that both the commitments to which we have come in the exercise of the right to self-determination as the commitments to which we have come in the social and public policy fields, the fact that they are not in their government pact with Together for Catalonia is no excuse not to apply them. And we'll remember them, and we'll keep an eye on them, and we'll fight pam to pam, day by day, so that these agreements are complete. In the social realm, we will fight from the road with social movements, with the unions, we will fight to ensure that these agreements, and much more, are fulfilled because the situation of social emergence, of deep crisis that our country has seen, the imperatives of the majority of our people so that they can live a dignified life, require social struggle and require radicality from institutions. And, in order to fulfill our national rights and to exercise self-determination, you know perfectly well, just as we do – you know perfectly well, just as we do – that in the absence of a state and a government that truly wants to dialogue and negotiate, which is a democratic revolution, a democratic insurrection in which civil society and institutions, social movements and institutions, we make efforts so that we can create a new framework of more rights, a new framework of broader rights. We will work to make possible, together with you, with loyalty, these objectives to which we have committed ourselves, these agreements to which we have come. And we'll be in opposition, radically, too, if he goes away. We are open to all responsibilities if we make effective progress in this legislature at the level of rights, sovereignty and democratic break with the State. We will confront them, also radically, if they settle in public antisocial or claudican policies before the State. And I also want to remind you of an important aspect of the agreements that we have reached: self-determination also means defending rights, sovereignty means defending rights; sovereignty means that that legislative action of Parliament and that executive function of the Government does not find a limit in the Statute, in the Constitution, in the Constitutional Court, when it is a matter of defending social rights in this country that have a broad consensus: housing, energy, guarantee of deputy ministers, protection of the territory. We would be defending the sovereignty of this Parliament; we would assume all the consequences and all the responsibilities without the Constitutional Court being a limit. And, Mr. Aragonès – I finish quickly –, you go with it, we all go with the use of words. Let us take account of when we use the word "Republic". Look, unfortunately, this today is an autonomy in the march of a monarchic state. This is the raw reality. October 1st and 3rd, our people, much of our people, did a republic act; the institutions, at this hour, have not yet been up. We consider that, because the institutions are truly republican, they must be unsubmissive institutions, they must be institutions that make insubmissive to oppression, injustice, and insubmissive to any state or institution of the State that perpetuates this injustice and this denial of rights. In us they will find... in us they will find a parliamentary group, an unsubmissive movement, prepared to, according to struggles and social movements, make these institutions truly republican and, therefore, unsubmissive institutions. And if I may, President, for a few seconds, I would like to finish – I will be very brief – since you have spoken of Connolly, with a phrase that I also seem worth remembering. He said: "The republic that would like to have our compatriots as its ideal should be of such a kind that the mere mention of its name will forever serve as a reward for the oppressed of any land, that it will always uphold a promise of freedom and abundance as a reward for the efforts they make for it. And if you band the English army and raise the green flag over the castle of Dublin, unless you start organizing the socialist republic, your efforts will be due. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.13.0	The words "Jessica Albiach", president of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem, are followed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.14.0	Thank you, President. And very good morning to all and to all. Before I begin, I would like to do something that is not usual in politics, but that I find that it is of all necessity, and it is a pleasure..., it is to thank the Government of the Generality, and in concrete terms to the Department of Social Affairs, which has shown its predisposition and has thus communicated it to the Ministry of Social Rights..., its predisposition to embrace the young, the migrant adolescents who are alone and who are now in Ceuta. Catalonia is solid, Catalonia is a land of entanglement, and whenever you are defending human rights, you will obviously tend to stand next to them. And so now what it's all about is to deploy the cent_per_cent, to fully deploy the Catalan collide strategy, which we approved in 2019, which wasn't developed at all yet, and so far we have this slope, because we know that the situation is very complicated now, but also that the proper months, mainly in the summer, can still be more. Therefore, we wanted to begin with this predisposition of the Government of the Generality. And already entering the investiture debate, the first one I wanted to make as the deputy of this chamber is to ask forgiveness of the citizenry. It has been a long time since the people saw how between these four walls of Parliament a reality was built parallel to the reality that the people are living on the street; two realities, that of the street and that of the institutions, that each time they touch less. And that's highly dangerous. Crispacia, the sound, the inability to reach agreements, and also the feeling that the great effort that citizenship is making does not apply to politics, is turning into the day-to-day pa to the conversations that we can listen to at the bar, between friends and family. I believe that clearly there has been a lack of empathy with all the people who have done everything they have asked for and most, and, in change, the political class, to say it in some way, the politicians, the politicians, have not been up to it. And this feeling came to the limit in the last three months; three months in which there was a high paralysis while the country was close to half a million people, and, also, about the only thing that was being heard about was the Council of the Republic; three months in which the pandemic got rid of the map of negotiations while we had a health system that was exhausted and at the limit, and three months of sound of falls that ended up murky, which ended up covering the veil of Catalans and Catalans. Look, we, from Comú Pode, when we entered into negotiations with Esquerra Republicana, we committed ourselves to that Catalan policy put back the focus, put back to the center, the problems of the people. We want to talk about a public psyche, a public real estate, being brave in reducing CO2 emissions, how we can match the conditions in which single-parent families are found with the families we call, how we can immediately activate the dialog table... But I have to tell you, I have to admit that we did not get it. It's clear that this isn't just about us, it's about you, but we didn't get it. But I do want to say to you that we are committing ourselves, from In Comú Pode, to the fact that since we have not managed to bring the change to the Government of the Generalitat, because this is not a change – there can be no change of stage unless there is a change of government–..., we do want to make this change in the Catalan Parliament from now on. Because, besides, MPs and MPs, who think that the forbearance of almost 50_per_cent that we tended to the elections of the 14th of February only responds to the pandemic, is wrong and very wrong. The high abstention on the 14th of February was a message, and a very clear message: either politics begins to change the rift and resignation for hope, the soroll for things that matter and the carpet for proximity, or the distance between the representatives and the representatives, between the people who vote for us and ourselves every day will be higher. And it's cost us a lot of effort, it's cost the people who came before us to raise these institutions because now they're awkward like this. And because, besides, the political crisis that it does is to open the door to those who do not only want to end our institutions, but also want to end the rights and freedoms of all who are already absolved. And that's exactly why, because I think outside these four pairs there's a lot of people who don't understand what's been going on all this time, I would really like to make a little summary. What has happened is that this government that today is presenting itself as a new thing has already given it to bury the 29th generation of 2020 President Torra; a weakness that even admitted the late Lord in his last book, when he certified – and, moreover, quote textually –: "The pale exhaustion of the dual formula Junts - Republican Left is the product of an already overtaken stage. It's a 2021 book. So, what we've been living through this past year of pandemic and what they're presenting could simply be the prorogation of a species of zombie government that we're carrying for many years and that we think is not what Catalonia deserves. So, after this pandemic, with the worst possible government, at the worst possible time, we went to elections. And the elections gave us various majorities. There was an opportunity, we could have a stage change; we could have a progressive majority now ruling the Generality. The possibility of a change came, by the way, after so many years. Because, Mr. Aragones, I insist again, there can be no stage change unless there is a government change. And, despite the results, you insisted on continuing to negotiate with Junts; some negotiations that, as I said, if for something they have characterized themselves, it is not to speak of a public psychologist, of the plan of mental health, of the industrial crisis, of how we help the peppers to lift the head. No, we didn't listen to this, during these three months; we listened to the sound of falls and we listened to the Council of the Republic. And finally we arrive at a key moment, a moment ago, a few days ago, in which you take the glove Jordi Sànchez launches and announce that his intention is to rule without Together, is to make a government without Together. And, Mr. Aragones, you know it, and the deputies of the Republican Left know it, too, when we went to negotiate with you, we did it with all the sincerity of the world. I don't know about you, but we were willing and sincere. Because, moreover, we can be criticized for a lot of things, obviously, but if there's one thing I think we do with all the humility, it's to speak clearly, in front of the cameras and out of the cameras, when we're in the electoral campaign and when we're not in the electoral campaign. And because if there's a consensus in this country, and that's all he recognized yesterday, it's like a stage change. And you... I'm sorry to say, because it hurts, because I want the country to go well, but you've lost the opportunity. It was a stage change, and, as I say, to make a stage change as a government change and no more of the same. And what you're presenting to us is not a change of government, it's a change of chromosomes. Let's keep it straight and keep it real, it's not a change of government; it's a change of chromosomes. Because there is no new stage, we need to change priorities, we need to change agreements, we need to change dynamics and we need to change policies. I'm going to insist on it again, you guys, this was coming up like a stage change. I'm sorry to tell you – and, besides, I'm really sorry – that this is simply a change of chromosomes. Why, besides, what happened when we came in to negotiate? So we saw that some and some of them got nervous. That's what you have to say. Because for the first time in a decade those who had manat could always stay out of the government. You know that, too. Because we saw how Together, his Twitter army, the entrail that accompanies them..., I knew perfectly well that if we came to the government we could start to change things. And I have to tell you that all of this we had hoped for; we had hoped for the reaction, we had hoped for the attacks. And what we didn't expect – and I have to say all the sad – is that who exactly went out to the rescue to refer the pact between the Republican Left and Together for Catalonia was the CUP. That's what we didn't expect. And, with all due respect, I believe that the companies and the companies of the CUP are mistaken for adversaries if they think that it is better a government with Together than a government with In How We Can. But in any case, it is his decision; you are the ones who have to explain it. Mrs. Sabater said now that if we had a hostile attitude. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't have a hostile attitude. I've never dyed it. Not now, not before. We won't even have it. What clearly... we're not going to find is in the process. And it's in the fantasy that the free market is compatible with social justice. And it's a make-up unit that we know is fake. They won't find us here. [[Some applause.]] And that's why we can't participate in this. And that's why we don't understand this decision. But in any case, as I said, we respect it, it would be more lacking, it's his decision. And in any case it is you who have to explain it. And I also wanted to refer to the role of the Socialist Party, of the Socialists of Catalonia. Mr. Illa, a lot of people I know he voted with hope. With hope that you would help open a new stage in Catalonia. But the truth is that when he opened Catalonia for four days the opportunity that the country could advance what we found was a Party of the Socialists of Catalonia that put their votes in a showcase and exhibited them as a trophy. And you know it's like that. And I have to tell you, with all the humility of the world, too: I think the votes are to put them to work, they are not to display them as a trophy. Because this way the country doesn't advance. Mr. Illa and Mr. Aragones, I, when I got into politics six years ago, made it out of the hand of a new game that ended with forty years of bipartisanship. And that is precisely why I firmly believe that the main virtue of politics and for which citizenship votes to us... not to us, but, I say, to all the people we are here, is because we have to be able to dialogue and reach agreements. Between you two, Mr. Aragones and Mr. Illa, we accumulate forty-one years of public office – forty-one years, which is said to be fast. Well, in forty-one years that you have accumulated experience in public affairs, despite all this, you have not brought to Catalonia what you are doing to the Barcelona Assembly or to the central government. And that still confirms the need for Catalonia to have a new way of doing politics. Catalonia needs a way of making politics out of empathy and it also needs to be closer to the bonds that we ask of the citizens that they have among them; a new way of making politics, brave, that really can build the government that the citizens want. Because here, and following with sincerity, Mr. Aragones, here we must recognize all that this is not a wanted government. In fact, I would say that this formula of government only wanted some who had to lose the chair. This government wasn't even what you wanted. You came out a few days ago and said, "No, no, I want to rule alone. Therefore, not only did you not want it, but now, moreover, you also know that there were no prominent people, uplifting, from Junts, who did not want this government either. So, it's not a bulk government formula, it's not a bulk government. Not just that. It's a government that's countered. And that wrongly does not generate illusion. It is impossible to generate illusion from toilets. Yesterday, Mr. Batet acknowledged that this is a government that has no expectations, on which there are no expectations. It's literal words. And because, besides, we've seen that what's been through these three months isn't a bad girl. Let's just say, she's not a bad rat. You have years of tense relationships, even truncated in a few moments, and of a unit that knows it doesn't exist. And it is also a government that is born with poor credibility; a lack of credibility because we have listened to some promises that have not been completed – four votes, they know what I am referring to – and others say that they would not go back, that the decision was taken and that it was firm, and that they would go to rule alone. It was assumed that the decision was final. And at the end we saw how they ended up praying to the usual. The one that already begins to be, unfortunately, a tradition in our country. And I ask myself: "Do we not deserve, in Catalonia, a government that remains desired, a government that generates illusion and a government that has credibility? Why don't we deserve this government? Why don't we deserve it? Why do we have to have a government that's made from resignation? Why? I just can't hear it. Because we know that this government has only served to make a point of a little bit forward and to win a few months on the calendar. That's what he's going to vote for today. And so it is as we arrive, more, today, in the wake of what has already been shown to be a government that has not worked. And, besides, everyone knows that, with honorable exceptions, the second parts – and I would say that this is already the third – are never better than the first. Mr Aragonès, last week at the control session I asked if you wanted to be a true president or a guardianship president. Obviously, he replied that he wanted to be a true president. I told him I had to choose; I had to choose between public sanitation and privatization... and maintain a health conglomerate that combines public and private. Actually, we're already beginning to have privatizations in the operating room in the sterilization system. They had to choose between a fair tax or the economic model best suited to ayusism. They had to choose between social rights and privileges. You had to choose between dialog table or sterile confrontation. They had to choose between decided climate action or cosmetic climate action. And they had to choose between talking 80_per_cent and 80_per_cent and 80_per_cent or, simply, staying at 52_per_cent. And you finally chose. By action or omission. But the truth is that you chose. And he chose an agreement in which he didn't win Catalonia, an agreement in which he didn't even win the Republican Left, but an agreement in which he mainly won the Junts per Catalunya. And with this, what we will have will be a government that will have the obsolescence programmed; but I admit, as I have already said, that they have won a few months on the calendar. And now he wonders what this government will do and what it can offer Catalans and Catalans. And, obviously, I think that, beyond the speeches – because in the end, facts are worth more than a thousand words – we need to see what the agreement you have with Juntes for Catalonia is. I've been spending the whole week – and I know you haven't felt too well – that Junts won the draw which didn't win in the polls. As I think some have misinterpreted me, I don't know whether I want to or not, I will now try to explain what I meant by that statement. Guanya Junts in healthcare. Guanya Together in health care because we see how they lower in 1,000_million euros the assumption that you want to allocate, according to your program, is clear, to the financing of public health. And because, besides, we see how with this downfall it will also be possible to walk towards a health system one hundred_per_cent public. There's no internalisation in sight. There's no hope of a model change. And in the end, the problem is that this makes the patients feel the attention, but also the working conditions of the professionals. Guanya Junts in habitation. Because, according to the agreement, housing policies are mainly aimed at channelling public resources from the European foundations to the owners who rehabilitate their floors. It is to say that European aid will end up in the tenants' butts; among them, investment funds and partnerships. There is also no trace of Esquerra's proposals in the field of habitating, such as the 2020-2030 Habitating Pact. Guanya Junts... – and here also Mr. Riera said that because there were some points of agreement between what had been signed with the CUP that did not appear with Junts..., and therefore the door remained open whether the firm would throw it forward or not –, what was going on with the foam projectiles. Finally, is this a stop, is it a ban or not? Guanya Junts in fighting climate-emergency policies. The new department of climate action will not have any competence in infrastructures, when everyone knows that on infrastructures is the basis on which the struggle for the ecological transition turns. There's no evidence of what they think they're doing with actions that have a high environmental impact: Terramar Autodrome, the C-32 skyline between Blanes and Lloret, the Hard Rock project. Neither have they, in their agreement with Junts, spoken of the moratorium on the great wind projects. We don't know if it was to please Mr. Calvet. And they don't bring back the creation of public energy... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't get upset, Mr. Calvet. [[The joker laughs.]] He'll understand that a green game like ours, so he can't justify these omissions; we think there's no fear that they're cool. Guanya Junts in economics. And get together in economics because they have the key to the current resource box. In fact, they will begin to control some departments that they suppose, which represent more than 60_percent of the government's assumption of the Generality. Besides, I don't know if it's for not opening another melo, but they already said we wouldn't have any presuppositions. I want to remind you that we are in a situation of prepandemic assumptions and we need postpandemic assumptions. I don't understand if it's because right now they can't get back into some other negotiations for what's left of the year. And they do not only control the key to the current resources box, but they also know that the commissions are different from the ones in the government that is now ending, but also from the future, of the European foundations. And here I do want to insist very much. He managed it that it is making of the European foundations..., no one could tend or no one should tend to make a use of from the partisan point of view. It has to be done from the concert; it has to be done by talking to the universities, to the research centres, to the assemblies and, obviously, to the entities and to the economic and social agents. And, lastly, also guanya Together at the time to mark the time to resolve the national conflict; a national conflict that so much evil is doing to our country. Because you can say that there are no guardians, Mr. Aragones, but if you look at the arrest agreement, it is clear that you are taking over the Council's mandate for the Republic. In fact, what he sees as saying is that when the council completes its reformulation, the strategy must be in its mark and not in that of the institutions representing the general will of Catalans and Catalans. In short, Mr Aragonès, we do not see social progress, we do not see national progress and neither do we see in the fight against climate change. I have to tell you – I have to say – that in his speech – mainly at the first one, because it is certain that yesterday's speech you made did not ask us so much for its content as it did for the first investment speech; I think that yesterday's speech was a speech that was better suited to satisfy Together than it did at 80_per_cent – you talk about transformations and we don't only like them, but we think that they are necessary, they are always and more essential at the moment we find ourselves. But when we then went to the small letter of the accord, when we then saw black on white what was written in its agreement, these transformations we could not find. And now I propose them to you, but also to the people who are following us from home, an exercise in imagination and an exercise in realism. We'll start with realism, and I'll be more benevolent. Now I'll read some of the headlines we've held in Catalonia in the past few years, years in which you ruled, Republican Left and Together for Catalonia. I'm saying I'll be benevolent. "The Generality gives today more than a thousand floors to the Social Emergencies Table. "The Generalitat has in construction thirty-six floors of social logger, only by contextualization, thirty-six floors the Generalitat before more than two-thousand floors that the Barcelona Assembly is building, in order to make this comparison. « Suicide is the first non-natural cause of death among young people from 15 to 35 years of age. « Contamination kills more than a thousand people in the year in Barcelona. « Four of your children in Catalonia cannot go to the dentist for economic reasons. « Laura Borràs gives to bury the table of the dialect. Catalonia leads the waiting lists in dependence. And now I'm going to do an imaginary exercise, an exercise of the headlines that could generate a progressive government, a left government in Catalonia, where we could get to if we had this government. Therefore, "The Generalitat creates a public real estate to build more than two thousand public dwellings of lloger, half of which are destined for young people. « Catalunya leads the strategy of mental salvation throughout the State, and we are not talking about a plan of mental salvation in general, we are landing; we are talking about doubling the name of public psychologists of the system. "The Generalitat is becoming a global referendum leading the shoc plan to reduce CO2 emissions, and, moreover, with ambitious objectives, we are talking about reducing the 65_percent of emissions by 2030. "The Catalans are the first in the state to have a public and free dentist. This law is passed by the last legislature, so let's hope it's put on the market as soon as possible. Now, you need assumptions, and you've already said that we won't have assumptions for now. « The table of the dialect advances in the democratic and political resolution of the conflict. Catalonia creates the first public system of cures and care for dependence. These are just some of the things we could do with a transformative government, with a left-wing government in Catalonia. It's a little show. But because that happens, it's brave enough to translate the words into facts. And I'm done. Mr Aragonès, at the last investment debate you quoted Gabriel Alomar, so I also want to do it – I also want to do it –, I also want to quote this representative of left-wing republicanism, and I want to do it with a quote that says: "Times do not return, if we are to win, it is necessary that we adopt a clearly progressive and significantly advanced character. And so, time doesn't come back and for as long as we have a government of Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia again, we know it's a formula that's exhausted and we know they've only won a few months on the calendar. And that simply means that the progressive government will not arrive today, it will not arrive tomorrow, but we know that it will arrive sooner than later. And meanwhile, what I can tell you is what we will do, as in Comú We can, we will work, as we always do, to solve people's problems, never profile ourselves when it comes to taking measures and working collectively to improve the rights of the citizenry, to be the useful alternative and why, even though the change has not reached the Government of the Generality, it does begin to arrive at this change in the Parliament of Catalonia. And it couldn't end in any other way, and, besides, I won't be original people, because they've already said it before other group presidents, they want it very lucky and very uncertain, because they'll be everyone's. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.15.0	Then has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, without time limit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you to Parliament's services to facilitate our debate. MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors... MP Albiach and MPs from In Comú We can, I, in the first place, would like to thank you that, despite your critical and skeptical speech with what this government is to be, you offer the opportunity to reach agreement in Parliament at the length of the legislature. For our part there is, therefore, the extended hand for it to be so. And, therefore, I appreciate this predisposition; predisposition that, for another band, they see the rest of the speech, is probably more pyrotechnic than real, but I hope that it will not, sincerely, and therefore my will to be able to reach agreement will also be there. I believe that on the 14th of February, Catalonia clearly expressed what it wanted: it was in favour of ending the repression, it is in favour of ending the repression, of working a democratic exit to the political conflict between Catalonia and the State and also of exiting from the crisis provoked by the covid-19, with a reinforcement of the state of welfare, of public services, so as to prevent the exit from this crisis from continuing, like the previous crises, on the spaces of the most vulnerable citizens, who suffer more from the inequalities of our country. Therefore, before this outcome, I am committed today to the government that we will push for will work to defend democracy, civil and political rights and produce this economic and social transformation to achieve a society that is more egalitarian, greener, more feminist. I believe that these shared elements are not far from the starting positions of this vast majority in this Parliament, of which today seventy-four Members and Members will facilitate my investiture, but there is also no room for them to be left behind and that they could be within them, and I, who are persevering, will insist on it. Therefore, I pledge to seek, in all those shared objectives, that there is consensus with your parliamentary group. But we also have a clear element that is that the results of the 14th of February were clear and the arithmetic is also clear, and that, therefore, the will, the compromise cannot replace the necessary loopholes to guarantee a government that has been established in parliament. And, therefore, I think we also need to put this on the table. The progressive majority of this Parliament today will speak out and vote in favour of the investiture. There are more progressive MPs and MPs who will stay away, but the majority that will support this investment is a progressive majority, because that's in the government program, because that's how they define or share it with the parliamentary groups that signed them, because that's how they reflect the agreement and why they show it. The ideas of progress, freedom, social equality, equality of opportunity are not private assets of anyone, nor of any parliamentary group or political tradition. You have focused a part of the speech on the Republican Left election, or on my election as an investiture candidate, and even arrived at a moment to make argumentally compatible, which..., I recognize the ability, because it is very difficult to say at the same time that you bet for 80_per_cent but you want to exclore Together from this 80_per_cent. And together for Catalonia is a political formation with which I have reached an agreement; obviously, it is not my agreement, because I do not participate, but we have reached a consensus, and it forms part of this 80_per_cent, as we also want from this 80_per_cent in form part of its group. This is the broad path that we have proposed, and you have self-discarded. Self-discarded because, I insist, ideas are not private assets of anyone, of no political tradition. And we go to the accords, we go to the concretions, right? There was a possibility of making this whole route viable, and I think it lasted a little. That's to say, in fact, just a week ago, during the control session, you gave up some negotiations. In any case, today we avoid these elections; we do so with a solid agreement, an agreement detailing measures in all areas of public policy, and if this agreement is possible, it is because of this virtue that we have not made a political action and a political compromise. The question is, what's your choice? Who's his choice? I'm not asking you to make a blind trust today. It's more, I don't even want to ask, because it wasn't possible to sign a joint agreement, which they voted for me. But I think I can ask them to abstain, based on an agreement. And even you can look at it with scepticism and say well, now you ask us, but it's the Republican Left that has done it. Or do they think it's not risky for a political project like the Republican Left, two months after the Supreme Court sentenced the president of our party to thirteen years in prison for making the U of October possible, to reach an investment agreement to prevent some elections that would take us to a victory of the right and the extreme right to the State? They imagine it's not difficult for the Republican Left to do that, when the state's attorney for that government that was defending precisely, so these prison sentences were in the Supreme Court? Therefore, they do not come to ask for exclusions. We have done – and we have done so on previous occasions – a decision, obviously on a change of agreements, to open a _negotiation table with the State. And we've done it some other time. And we have done so with a great effort, even a personal and intimate effort, and endorsed by the leaders of our party who are patenting repression, because we believe that it would be a compromise to try to open a new stage, to give an opportunity, in any case, above all not to give an opportunity to the right and the extreme right. Therefore, as we have done on other occasions, I am asking you to leave the open door to be able to make agreements in this Parliament, and this also needs clear commitments. Agreements are who they are; the government program is reflected in the agreements that we first arrived at in time with the Popular Unity Candidacy and with Juntes per Catalunya, in the investiture speech. This is the government program. But we can reach parliamentary agreements, but a point of generosity is needed to reach parliamentary agreements. And I think that today you could extend your hand – I am there – to reach agreements not opposing there. I don't say I'm voting for it anymore, no, I don't know that there are things that some people might do to them, but they don't have to ask for it – but they're abstaining. I think that, as we have done on other occasions, today you could do a gesture of trust because in the future, therefore, there may be shared agreements. Because I think that this way is wide, I think that there is actually this vast majority, which is obviously very different and plural, because this country is diverse and plural, it is much more plural in this country than it is in the same way, obviously because it is much more there. But I think it's important. And it is important that these consensuss..., when it appeals to this 80_per_cent that in the opinion studies it is in favour of a political solution based on the right to decide in a referendum and on the freedom of prisoners and exiles, it is contradictory to want to base this whole way out of any of its members. I won't do it. That's why I'm holding their hands today. In any case, I imagine the answer and maintain my will to be able to reach agreements; to be able to reach agreements that do not exclude the clear determination that I expressed yesterday from which is the object of this Government. And this government has the objective of making it possible to complete the independence of Catalonia, to do so through the tools we have in the abaster, which also include a negotiation to find a political solution to the conflict where everyone can express themselves, where everyone can feel represented, and to do so with a social and economic reconstruction that will allow no one to stand back. In many of these elements, you can see reflected; your choice will be whether you want to participate in it or not. Today, in any case, let's start walking. And I want to thank all the Members who, therefore, have agreed and announced their vote in favour because this independent and progressive government can begin its work. Therefore, thanks to the deputies and deputies of Junts, of the Popular Unity Candidature, of the Republican Esquerra. We have the doors open because in parliamentary work we can add there, in the realization of many elements of this program. Many thanks, President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.17.0	Thank you very much. Then, to answer, has the word Jessica Albiach, for space of nine minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.18.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Aragones, you spoke of pyrotechnics. I'm a Valencian soc, but I already tell him that I don't like pyrotechnics in politics. I don't know if you like them, but, I'm telling you, we're not a pyrotechnician. We're people with words, that's what we're talking about. And by pyrothecnia I would say..., by pyrothecnia his appearance of May 8th; this indeed was pyrothecnia: « I am decided to rule alone. We'll be in a minority government. That's pyrotechnics; saying that we don't have a profile when it comes to improving people's lives is not pyrotechnics, they're done. And if not, remember that you were able to get out of the presuppositional prorogation thanks to these eight humble deputies and deputies. What we are eight, we know clearly how many we are, but thanks to these eight MEPs and MEPs Catalonia was able to get out of a situation of paralysis, it was able to have 900_million euros more for public health, we were able to advance a little bit in mobility, we started paying the debt of the schools in Bressol. This is done and this is not pyrotechnics. And, for that matter, we've never done it, and we're not doing it now. I insist, we're people with words. You told us yesterday that we would not oppose your investiture. Now he's clearly asking us to abstain. So, look, I'm going to insist again, we're people with words. You made an ultimatum – or two, I don't know anymore – and didn't complete it. You said that the decision was firm and that you were going to rule alone and you're not doing it. You have placed in the hands of Juntes more than 60_percent of the Generality's premise. You say that it will not be protected, but you have said that when the Council of the Republic is reformulated, this will be the mark where the independence strategy will be decided. You create the Department of Climate Action, but you don't give them competitions over infrastructure. You give it to Junts Salut, Social Rights, Economy, European Foundations, and you talk about great transformations that after us do not know how to find in your agreement. Therefore, no, we will not abstain. We will not abstain because we think that this government simply... is that we believe that it is not good for Catalonia. And there was an opportunity. I don't know about toilets; that's what I'm telling you today and I won't be reminding you every day. But clearly there was no opportunity to move forward; there was no opportunity to start doing politics in another way. And you locked the door. But I'm telling them this will come; sooner than later, it will come. And besides, this thing that they're trying to defend Junts is that I'm absolutely captivated. It's like Mr. Rufian, one day he said that Junts is on the reels and the next day he said that not so much; it seemed like he wasn't. Jo, the truth, I don't know. But it's that, besides, one thing is how they move in everything: they want a government in solitary and then they don't want a government in solitary. And, besides, I still know, you haven't gone out and explained this change of parenting. I insist, unfortunately, we are before a government that did not want anyone, nor do you alone, and we know that an important part of Junts neither. The question is simple: who wanted it? So..., the writer Vázquez Montalbán created a concept that is called "weakness correlation." And I think there's a little bit of this going on; it's, I mean, it's very useful to explain this pact: an agreement that nobody wants to make because actors can build the agreement they want. And that's what we find today. Look, a country is not built from resignation – because this government is the result of a pact of resignation –; no country and less Catalonia; Catalonia has always been the engine of change thanks to the organization of its people. And less so at a time like the present, after a pandemic that has been very severe, after the economic and social crisis that the only thing he does is that, when we haven't gotten out of the last two years, we'll reattach another one. Before you mentioned it yourself. Catalonia needs future, Catalonia needs hope, Catalonia needs indeed, and today what they offer is more than the same. And besides, you asked me where we are. So I'll tell him where we are; not just where we are, but who we are. We don't forget who we are, where we come from and why we're here. We are the ones who when we govern women's policies that are referent at the international level. We're the ERTOs. We're on top of each other. We're from the public dentist. We are in the historical record of public housing floors. We're from the reference and the dialog. Always; now, before and tomorrow. Always. Not like others who've been changing. [[Some applause.]] We've always been in the same place. So, you know exactly where we are, you know who we are, why we're here and where we come from. And I have to tell you – and I will finish this –..., you have come during the speeches you have made to our speeches, to our feminist positions, which we celebrate, to our ecological discourse, to our dialect speeches, but the facts – the facts – are worth more than a thousand words. And I'm going to say it, and I'm going to say it with all the color pain, because I think Catalonia deserves a change: it's not possible; it's not possible to open a change with a government that's old, with a government that doesn't suppose an advance, with a government that the only thing they've ever done is switch the chromes. Because there is a political change in Catalonia we need a government change in Catalonia. It's just that you're like a senzill and you're like a complex. And I'm telling you, and I've told you before, we've never profiled ourselves, we haven't done it and we won't do it; we'll never profile ourselves when it comes to adding majorities, working collectively for the good of the people. And you know that. So don't talk about pyrotechnics, because this is more part of a section of Parliament than ours, because we insist, we never forget who we are, where we come from and why we are here. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.19.0	The words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, president of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.20.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Aragonès, candidate, you insisted yesterday on your idea that Catalonia is a populous sun. And it immediately made clear what that means: basically uniformity, a certain way of understanding the cultural and linguistic diversity of our community and contempt, in short, for the most common feelings of belonging in Spain..., which is basically feeling Catalan and at the same time Spanish. That of a people's sun is an anachronistic and rancid speech that would be unimaginable by a candidate for investiture in any other region of any democratic country of the European Union. What happens is that here, like a people's sun, we've been here for forty years repeating it, because it must seem very modern to you, but it isn't. And I also tell you that you came here very solemnly to say that you appeared at the seat of popular sovereignty, and I tell you that, with less solemnity, I appear today before the seat of our autonomy. Because sovereignty, as the Constitution recognizes, the sovereignty of the Spanish people, resides in the General Courts. You also said that your obsession was to make a referendum like in Scotland. And it seems incredible to me that this is his obsession in the middle of the pandemic. I think you should put your feet on the ground. The priorities are not to culminate independence, it is not amnesty, it is not self-determination, for the vast majority of Catalans; people are concerned about employment, social services or economic recovery. But you have long proved that you are incapable of ruling for as long as you said that autonomy has become small and that you are going to develop this legislature – yes, at last – an intense legislative work. We have already seen that in the previous parliamentary term with Mr Torra at the head, first, and then you at the head of the government in office. You talked about increasing the laws, and that's very good, listen, in a legislative body that works. But you should also start by respecting existing laws, which we cannot expect much from you. He also came to say that the only limit to be set is on the popular will of the citizens of Catalonia. That seems to me bad omens if you in your own investiture session, as leader, as president of an autonomous community, ignores that the limit must always be the law, because it is what prevents the arbitrariness of the rulers, because the law is what protects the weak from the arbitrariness of the powerful. And I see that you, when you formulate these postulates, become part of the most disembodied of populism, of the populism of any other populist leader there is, that there has been..., and that there has already been one, Trump, of America. This kind of thing, listen, is pure populism. It scandals us that you stand on the Catalan side to resolve the political conflict when you released your forty-six pages of government agreement. You do not represent the Catalan side; you represent the separatist part of Catalonia which has a low understanding of what institutions and democracy mean in the rest of the European Union. Neither the Catalan side nor the political conflict, however much you find a minister, such as Mr Iceta, who gives you the reason for assuming that there is a political conflict. And that is the great problem of the Socialist Party, which, although it does not share the conclusions of nationalism, as Mr Illa meant yesterday, does share his premises. Yesterday you hurt Mr. Illa that, when the Constitutional Court handed down the ruling on the Statute, the PSC stood idly by. And that's not true. If Mr Montilla was in the front row of the demonstration that was convoked under a slogan« Som a born, we decided. If he was there, Mr Socialist, challenging the Constitutional Court's decision of 2010_on a statute of Mr Maragall that many of us were already warning that he was going to have constitutional problems. Well, in fact, the Board of State Guarantees unanimously warned you. I mean, it was pretty clear. For Montilla did not stand idly by, Mr. Aragonès; Montilla put the second stone on which you raised the process, and the first one was put by Mr.Maragall driving the statutory reform at the hand of Carod-Rovira. There is something I would like to say in this Parliament about the demand for control by some Catalan parties over Catalan society. The pretension of control comes first because there are several parties on the left – the Socialist Party, the commons, the UPC – which, as everyone knows, then have that kind of moral superiority of the left and then they dictate to us what is the true religion, what is the politically correct thing, where you must be to be a good citizen, so that you are considered supportive, so that... all these parameters of « capitulate to society in a creed, have them on the left. But here, moreover, we have fallen astral alignment with nationalism, another social vocation of « capicular, of convincing and of not accepting the different, which is nationalism. And here we have the perfect storm of the left and independence nationalism seeking control of our society. That's why things like this happen that we heard yesterday, that Junts per Cat, already dead Convergence, already dead Union, has absolutely abandoned the postulates that he once had – apart from appropriating what was not his - because once he had over the center or the liberal being, because now it only matters in Catalonia to command, control and do social engineering. That's why they go with the CUP, they go with Esquerra, because they share independence with them. So, also Mr Batet, nothing less, already looks like an independent leftist maulet [[remorse of the voice]] , just like other members of his party, and they end up saying that he's more and more left-wing. While the private sector is suffocated and Catalan society is wishing to breathe and tighten its belt, in crisis, you in your agreement, instead of thinning the Administration, expand the councils from thirteen to fourteen, for two reasons basically: one, because to you it seems that all the great that the Administration of the Generalitat can be is not yet enough, and for..., the other, precisely, for that vocation to expand the Administration, the chiringuitos, the placed ones, and in the end control the Catalan society. And look, logically, the investiture session, Mr. candidate, is not the place to criticize what your previous government has done, much less what the government that you comply with is going to do next. It is true that we already know what you have linked in all previous years with Junts per Catalunya in their coalition governments and how harmful they have been to Catalonia, and their disastrous management of the government in office. But I believe that now, politically, is the opportunity to put the numerator to zero and that you have another chance, to see how such a rule is. And you have to choose whether you want to go into history as a president of the Generalitat who led your government in favor of all Catalans, which I doubt, despite the speech you made here yesterday that you meant that you are going to govern all Catalans... You say one thing here, but then in your agreements of the democratic clash you say another very different thing. You speak one thing, but write another. And I believe that you will pass not as a president of all Catalans, but as a politician who again did not respect the plurality of Catalonia, impoverished our society even more and divided even more to the Catalans. Mr. Illa said yesterday: "We will not give him a hundred days. We think we have to give them. I think we have to give it to a new government, with new advisors, which is presented theoretically under a new agreement..., in management we have to give..., well, wait to see if they get started and if they do something really different from what they did. We have no hope whatsoever, but we do believe that new people will enter, new guidelines will enter and we will see what you do plot by plot. But what I have already said to him that he does not..., or we have already said that we cannot give a hundred days, not a day alone, is in the questions that suppose leaving his autonomous powers, as it is notoriously the disengagement of us from Spain, the search for independence and the promotion of the struggle against the State so that, in the end, in his own words, « they force him to convene a referendum. "Forcing" has a connotation that you yourself will see that you do not have all the..., of course cannot be considered strictly democratic. And let's now talk about the debates on the table in Catalonia with the four topics that interest most Catalans, which are education, public media, economic recovery and freedom and democracy. For Citizens, there is no possible future without quality education for our children. It is the best way to guarantee equal opportunities, to give people tools to be happy and to stand up for themselves. But for you education is a tool, exactly like TV3, of control of society, a social engineering project that has been developing in Catalonia for forty years and which begins with the persecution of the Spanish in the classrooms. You, in the classrooms, want to suppress a social and cultural reality of Catalonia that is your bilingualism. And you always deny it, but you always do this which I am saying to you: you refuse to respect even the judgments of the courts of the 25_per_cent of Spanish as a language to drive in the classrooms; that I would like to know if Mr. Illa, who will now be cap de l'oposicio, will force, will really make opposition so that this duty of the Administration to give the classes also in Spanish is fulfilled in Catalonia. It is clear that what Citizens recommends, which is a trilingual teaching in Spanish, Catalan and English, is that kind of teaching where many of you take your children, to private schools that are worth a thousand_euros each child, so that they learn in a language learning modality that is not the one offered by our public school, that is forty years old, that is expired, that is invented by Jordi Pujol and that was used, therefore, to supply or to try to undo that coveting to which so many years of Catalan has been subjected – coveting in recent years, even prohibition in previous years. We proudly defend the concerted school as well. Despite the fact that you are always insisting on removing concerts from schools, it seems to us that there must be the freedom of choice of centre that recognizes the Universal Convention on the Rights of the Child and that public-private collaboration is good to prevent the educational system from being affected by the dirigism and control that you always have a vocation to impose in society. We've also seen what your respect is in the agreement... From education to the use of the Spanish language in Catalonia, we have already seen the respect they have in their agreement, which only mentions the Catalan and Aranian language. You, as in the previous investiture speech, only use Catalan and Spider, but with respect to the Spanish language, nothing, zero, zero baller, zero, zero at all, as if it were not, as if it were an improper language. There is some Taliban from the imposition of the Catalan and the eradication of the Castilian, who shrinks from his shoulders as if saying: "Of course, of course, of course. Well, of course, that's why you never condemn those who believe you are very heroes for accusing waiters, dependents, health care workers, who wish to express themselves in Spanish in their work with complete freedom and are subjected to lynching on social networks. And you said here today that no one discriminates against anyone in Catalonia for their language, and that is not true. Whom do you intend to deceive? If even we have had to bring to the European Union the complaint that here in Catalonia there are denied training classes for unemployed people in the Spanish language, and there have been Latin American people who have put this on the table, and you are refractory to admit that there is a majority language of Catalans as typical of Catalonia, as it is Catalan, and a language of so many centuries and so much cultural prestige as we have here the luck of having in Catalonia. I too would like to hope that the Socialist Party on this subject will have what, then, it has the, let's say, political clarity to act on. [[remorse of the voice]] , which I believe you will not have, because what you have marked is the Celaa law. And yes, look, I see that there is a shadow to you that I am addressing the Socialist Party, but it is very normal, because here, in this Chamber, we cannot leave, we should not leave, Your Honor, that the defence of the rights of the freedoms of all Catalans is defending only a few, and that the majority group, therefore, prefers to prepare future agreements with the Republican Left. Those agreements that you wanted to close on your day, but that Republican Left did not want, and you and Mr. Sánchez did want to close with them. So, therefore, understand that I from here to you address me, and I will certainly do so on many occasions in this legislature, asking that you want to build bridges with constitutionalism, and not just with separatism. That I have told you many times that separatism will have to be won one day or another, and between the constitutionalist parties we will have to reverse this. That is why I am addressing you, Your Honor, and that is why I am also referring to the Socialists in this speech. I think we also need to talk about TV3, and we need to talk about TV3, candidate, because when someone has a television, in an autonomy, which is unusually expensive and also prompts unanimous criticism of the opposition saying that it is a tool of indoctrination and a speaker of the Government of the Generalitat, because listen, you as a candidate would have to take a step forward and say: « TV3 is going to change now with this legislature that I am starting. Would you guarantee us that TV3 will cease to become the tool of separatism during this term, or have you been fighting these days to see who was in government, and one of the biggest caramelites was who was in TV3 and who was in Catalonia Ràdio? Probably, huh? That's how it was. Or are you going to change something on TV3? Look, on TV3... TV3 is a monopoly, currently, ideological and industrial that slows down the dynamism of the telecommunications sector, slows down a generational relief that sends a message of hope to the new generations and marginalizes non-nationalist journalists. Let's see when TV3 opens up to the truth, to impartiality, to transparency. Let's see when TV3 stops making these ideological money movements, like that documentary to make heroes of the prisoners who gave here the blow to democracy that was paid with the covid funds [[Funnel veils]] Or was it not paid with the covid funds, even though Catalonia falls apart because of the effects of the pandemic? These are issues of democratic health that affect public television and that you should tell us something here today. And again, Socialist Party and TV3, the PSC with its position..., the PSC's position on TV3, for us, is the paradigm of political cynicism, because it has always acted radically contrary to the positions it is now preaching. In the same way that he blessed the linguistic persecution of the Castilian during the tripartites and recently in the Celaa law, as I said before, when he ruled the PSC, he gave control of the public media to the Republican Left of Catalonia, and the editorial line of TV3 during the tripartites is that it did not vary a_millimeter of the nationalist canons that had been growing on TV3 in previous years. And I believe that, unlike the Socialists, Ciutadans has and will have very clear positions on TV3. We have to modernise the, we have to do the neutral, we have to make the transparent, we have to reduce by 50_per_cent its budget to be profitable, which also means putting itself into absolutely renewing the staff and using that savings to help the sectors today most affected by the covid, and to focus, in short, the opposition to these objectives, and not to passively allow it to remain the propaganda tool of independence. As for economic recovery, let's see, in these months of negotiations you have seen what you were worried about, who leads the process, what role Puigdemont would play, and we have some economic data that you know very well, although then on television you deny them; because yesterday I saw Mrs Anna Simó on TV3, from your party, former member of the Bureau, say that everything was going very well, that Catalonia was rising. Listen, the unemployment rate of 12,9; youth unemployment rate of sixteen to twenty-four years of 33.40; follows the worrying flight of companies during the first quarter; foreign investment falls, which Mrs Simó expressly denied yesterday; the annual variation of foreign investment in Catalonia is at least 22,8_per_cent, while in Spain as a whole it is at least 0,8_per_cent, according to the Idescat. Public debt 79,000_million_of_euro; GDP decline in 2020 by 11.5, while in the rest of Spain it falls by 10.8_per_cent. We must put the batteries in order to get out of the crisis and to park what is paralysing and unproductive, which is basically the process, which is what grips us and what prevents us from moving forward and what drives us away from investment. It's the process, it's his democratic struggle, it's his rupturist project that scares and depresses Catalan society. You have to step on the street, you have to step on the street more, because then you would also see what people care about. We have been in Badia, that there are whole neighborhoods with tons of asbestos, and expect money from the Generalitat to solve this issue. We've been to the ruby dumps. Three landfills, the one hundred in Catalonia, accumulate in Rubí. It is not well known what handling there has been with the landfills, which they all love Rubí. Mariola's neighbours in Lleida suffer from serious insecurity problems. The situation of hoteliers and restaurateurs in Sitges, Terres de l'Ebre or Girona is agonistic because they have suffered from a regional confinement and lack of financial aid. And that's why I'm telling you that maybe if you were to give more face to the neighborhoods of Catalonia, to their cities, because you would see how many people are looking forward to it is not that you have autonomy and self-determination, but that you respond to those problems that they have in their neighborhoods and in their cities. The fourth thing I wanted to talk to you about, freedom and democracy, having to do with this anti-democratic struggle that you want to launch, for I will say to you: « Respect minorities. Basically – basically. Yesterday you did seem that... it's that, in short, you, well, it seems that you're going to give us all a quieter, more normal, more pragmatic legislature. Excuse me, I don't think this is going to be like this. We don't have much time anymore. I don't want to stop saying some things. I know that today in the images of many news stories, then, Mr Junqueras will be there. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Junqueras. « Yes, yes, yes; « Yes, yes, yes, you say. Mr. Junqueras delinqueted and did it here – and he did it here. And he did it from the Government of the Generalitat. And that's why he's doomed. And I, then, look, I wish you the same as any other person deprived of liberty, that you be light and that you fulfill it as best as possible. But, I tell you, as spokesman at that time of the first opposition party in the chamber, I do not forget what Mr Junqueras wanted to do here, and others. And a lot of Catalonia doesn't forget... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Esther... Mrs. Capella, a lot of people from Catalonia don't forget what you did. I ask that if you are to pay tribute to them at the headquarters of Esquerra Republicana or in independentist environments, but that here, where this crime was committed against most of Catalan society, no tributes are paid to those on which we were overwhelmed on 7 and 8 September 2017, in those..., 6 and 7 September 2017, in those shameful days that we live in this Parliament. And you, no matter how much of a mouthpiece you say you're going to be the president of everyone, you're not going to be the president of everyone until you ask for forgiveness, you don't understand more than half of the Catalans who wanted to subjugate with your rupturist project and you don't understand the effects and harms that this has caused us in Catalonia. We are certainly not going to give up in the opposition and in the denunciation of this kind of attitude which we consider to be absolutely totalitarian and disrespectful, not minorities anymore..., because we are a parliamentary minority, but it is a lot, most Catalans who do not want to go on this road of confrontation on which you lead us. Look, if you keep this up, we're just gonna find frustration and legal consequences, which is something we've already warned you about over and over again. Look, another person who is here today, Mr. Torra, former President of the Generalitat, that nostalgic of pure Catalonia in which Catalan was spoken and no longer spoke Spanish as in the days of his grandparents, is no longer the President of the Generalitat. And it's not because he didn't respect the law. And since he didn't respect the law, we in Ciutadans left and denounced him to the prosecution. And we also did it with Mr. Buch, because he was paying with the money of all Catalans an escort from Mr. Puigdemont, escaped, and he was paying him as a government advisor. And they will also parade through the courts those responsible for these courts in the Meridiana, which are allowing the merchants to be ruined, the drivers to be annoyed and that, as they are independent, nothing happens to them. And then the head of the Interior and the secretary general of the Interior are not doing what they should, despite the technical reports of the Urban Guard. And they'll parade through the courts to explain this too. And they will also parade through the courts those who have spent money from all Catalans in promoting the process abroad, will also do so, because we will therefore be ensuring legality and democracy in this Parliament, in Congress, in the courts, in the street and where it is needed, Mr Aragonès. I hope in that I find the help of the Socialist Party. These days we are looking to the south to see how the crisis in Morocco threatens the territorial integrity and unity of Spain. A lot of forces here don't take it seriously. We send our encouragement to the citizens of Ceuta and Melilla, to the army and to the security forces and bodies of the State, and we ask the Government not only to look and focus on the danger to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Spaniards that occurs in the south, but also to look at the threat that is being announced, as has been announced for many years, in the north. Do not be deceived, Mr Sánchez, Mr Illa, by Esquerra Republicana, who with his left hand offers the table, the table that call « dialogue, while with his right hand signs the commitment of an anti-democratic struggle for this legislature. Do not continue to yield, socialists, to the nationalisms, which are insatiable, they will continue to undermine coexistence and overflow the competitive field until the final assault. I fear that you, as is the case with the discrimination of the Castilian, will end up, socialists, pasteling with independence as soon as the citizenry turns around. And what I have told you before, we must gain the confidence of constitutionalism and not independence. I also want to end up calling for constitutional mobilization. We don't like going to vote when you play. Nationalism must be won in all institutions. Independence came from the Chamber of Commerce, but sensible entrepreneurs mobilized to save Pimec; independenceists or not, mobilized to defend the interests of a sector, small and medium-sized enterprises, on which millions of jobs depend. Lawyers – and I am, collegiate in Barcelona – cannot let the anti-democratic embattment of the government pact, that the sectarianism of the process take over the Bar Association of Barcelona. Independence wants to use the home of justice professionals, defenders of the rights and freedoms of the weak and the resourceless, in the government's tentacles, and to follow their interests. Therefore, as a Barcelona lawyer and deputy of the Parliament of Catalonia, I ask all lawyers that [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] this time they do mobilize – and I finish, president – and do not vote for the candidacy sponsored by the parties of the Government, but they vote, on June 3, a single independent candidacy that respects the professionals, the corporation, the laws and not those who would like to hang in the headquarters of the Mallorca street a stelade in our facade and a yellow link in our robes. If we want to change things...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.21.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.22.0	... – I finish now, Madam President – we must put an end to the hegemony of the nationalist power with which all kinds of abuses are committed. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.23.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies... Deputy Carrizosa, deputies of the Ciutadans Group, to the extent of his intervention was to point– and I have noted here– to begin by saying that he wanted to thank you all. (Laughter.) But he didn't leave me. Because I think that despite the fact that it's all more theirs... – in fact, I think that it favors the position of this legislature, more than the previous one, respects all, and we lower the chasm–, I think that the content can't please people or anything, more than this electoral campaign falcon for the law that I think has surprised us all a little bit. ( Some applause.) But, in any case, he's trying to make a return trip to the center, I suppose because the right is overcrowded, but in the end, in its content, he sees that he's not able, that he's chained to extreme positions when he tries to question elements that have been mixed with cohesion and social consensus in this country. When we talk about "Catalunya is a people's sun, we don't talk about a single, uniformed people, or all the same – it's not ours to be free and equal, is it? "Free and equal" is not ours, but we are talking about social cohesion. And this has been an element that has always had a lot present, Catalanism, at the length of its history. The national adventure, the process of national construction, which we want for this country, in terms of sovereignty, how to organize politically, must come from the hand of social cohesion, from a country which is diverse, which is plural. That by luck many speak, of languages, by luck many speak, and must continue to speak. And it's good to know them, and it's good to learn, and it's good to defend the linguistic rights of everyone, especially the languages that try to minimize. And I'm already telling you, what's going on in the classroom, you visit them a little bit. You said to me, "Trepitgin the street, trepitgin the classrooms. Take the classrooms of this country and do not question how we always do the work of 130,000 teachers of the system of education of Catalonia, 130,000 teachers in whom we entrust our daughters and our children, and who are making an excellent task. We don't have 130,000 indoctrinators in this country, very much... In fact, what we have is a body of academics with critical expertise, also claim, when appropriate, and high-level, and we have to follow them side by side and in their excellent professionalism, as they have shown especially in this later school year keeping the schools open. Therefore, the diversity of this country, the rights of everyone, for me it is an absolutely irrefutable principle, is absolutely irrefutable. And in fact, it's unforgivable... and that I'm not going to give up is what I'm going to lay down, my political plans, and what I'm going to work for, as we've done, is because they're taken over every time for more people. And democracy was so; that's to say, you have to try every time your approach takes the most democratic people, because it's the popular will that in a democracy you have to make the laws. This is the recourse, it must not see 'the popular will limited by some laws: it must be able to change them, it must be able to transform them; it must respect political pluralism, also to the State, where there are collections like Catalonia that have very difficult to be able to change only by limiting themselves to the game of majorities and minorities which is the will of the State. Therefore, we say so: our limit will be the popular will of the citizens of Catalonia. I add another: the social cohesion of our country too. We are absolutely clear: we will not play with social cohesion, with respect for human rights and with respect for our institutions. I'm done here. I think that, despite the fact that your tone at first seemed to surprise us, you didn't disappoint us, you did what we hoped you would do. And you will be able to say what you want, you will be able to give valid sentences that for us are clearly a political repression, but neither Mr Junqueras nor the U of October convictions nor those that are affected by the general cause against independence are criminals, they are servants of the country. And we will work to be at the height of your commitment. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.25.0	Then, for four minutes and a half, has the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.26.0	Yes, Madam President. Mr. candidate, it is curious what happens in Catalonia that when you can already be center, you can already be liberal, you can already be progressive, you can already embrace all the freedoms of the whole world, of the LGTBI collective as well..., you can already do all that if you criticize nationalism and criticize the independence of Catalonia, you already stop being center and you are already a radical, in front of people who, moreover, have wanted to load our institutions. I don't know who the radicals are here, I don't know who the Democrats are here, I don't know who the centered here, of course, you don't. And I tell you about..., you say: "The free and equal is yours. Yes, it is: free and equal. Free and that everyone can be equal to another, and that the child of one person... of a worker with few resources can be exactly like the child of a great businessman. And that's what we think. Yes, free and equal. And 130,000 teachers who have all the respect on the part of Ciutadans, like all the public officials and public servants of Catalonia. The fault of indoctrination, the fault of the eradication of the Castilian in the classrooms is not of these 130,000 teachers; it is of you, of the nationalist politicians, who have been imposing all that in Catalonia. And lastly, TV3: you didn't mention anything about TV3. Also respect journalists, also respect TV3 workers, but you use TV3 as a tool for government propaganda. And this we say over and over again, you, as a candidate, have not committed yourself at all to eradicating this malicious use of TV3 in Catalan society. And you who say you're going to change so many things, why don't you change this? That is important for Catalan society, that TV3 starts to be true of everyone, that there are many Catalans who have neither tuned it – nor tuned it – because they consider it like reading Pravda, in the Soviet Union, and they don't want TV3 for that, they don't want it. So, make sure everyone feels like you, as many of us want to feel. And then, look, I tell you about economic issues and economic recovery, you haven't said anything, but I think that the economic recovery in Catalonia is intimately linked with all the energies that our society puts in economic recovery by turning aside other issues that distract us, divide us and drain our resources. Therefore, it is also important for us to stop the process. That is why it is important, because this is not the time to divert neither a single effort nor a single public euro from the public thing, from Catalan society at the moment. As for freedom and democracy, look, they say that the role endures everything and the "faristols also endure everything, like elections of people who have not respected our democracy and our institutions, and it seems that we have to endure lessons of freedom and democracy for those who wanted to carry freedom and democracy in Catalonia. And we, of course, in Ciutadans lessons from you at least is that not one, but not one, you know? Not one. Finally, Mr. candidate, you will come out today invested, waiting for a legislature that would already be difficult for any governor who had the responsibility to get us out of the crisis, enough problems already bring the management of those 32,000_million_of_euros budget of the Generalitat, of those 7_million_and_average of people so that you look for new problems with the project of democratic confrontation and the breakdown of coexistence. In the management of government and the autonomous competences will have the hand stretched out ours and a loyal opposition; in everything that you attack coexistence, blackmail the state and the Catalans, do social engineering or spend a_euro that does not belong, will have us vigilant and exercising the legal and political actions that are necessary, as I said before. With regard to what you have called ‘an electoral wedge about the bar association, Mr Aragonès, we know what it is to co-opt public law corporations by nationalism, and I would not want that for my bar association. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.27.0	The words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, president and spokesman of the Mixt Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.28.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin this intervention by addressing our fellow citizens to tell them that you are not alone, that you are loved in Catalonia. And don't worry about the words of Puigdemont, because, besides, if Puigdemont goes against you, that is that will go very well in life. I would also like to address the forces and security forces of the State, the army, to transfer our affection, respect and admiration to them. Thank you very much for the work you are doing. Well, when these initial words of thanks were transferred, I also wanted to convey to Mr Aragonés a thank you, which will be the first and last, which is for the shortness of the speech he made yesterday. After the endless perorates of the first investiture session, we feared the worst, and yesterday's thirty-five minutes the truth is that they are grateful. But his speech yesterday has nothing to do with how fundamental we have to analyze today. Call me masochist, but I have read with great attention the forty-six pages of the government agreement for his investiture. A plume, unbeatable sleeping document, an artifact that deliriously combines the inflamed rhetoric of nationalism, neo-Marxist terminology « cupaire» and tons of nonsense impossible to find in any public document of any of the European democracies in our environment. It is a real nonsense, it is the perfect metaphor of the situation to which they have led Catalonia after nine years of separatist process. And I told them that it was not a pleasant reading, precisely, but of the combination of the same and yesterday's speech of Mr Aragonès I was pleased to draw up a decalogue of small and large catastrophes that await us in Catalonia in this legislature if you do not change course, and everything indicates that you have no intention of changing course. One. Degradation of the Catalan institutions, in particular the presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya. You announced yesterday, with a strong epic tone, a ‘new Republican Generalitat'. I must lower your tone a little to tell you that what you announced yesterday was the Generalitat, of all life, but crushed and in the form of sanity. In the previous legislature, you introduced a remarkable innovation, and it is that you constituted the figure of the three presidents: there was the legitimate president – Puigdemont –, there was the symbolic president – Torra – and there was the limited president – it was you. I say it without second, you know, it was the terminology you used. A little damage was done that day; we all have a bad day, but you referred to that figure as the ‘limited president'. Well, in this legislature you are going to incorporate a new one, and it is that you stop being the limited president and become the honorary president directed, teledirected from Waterloo and Lledoners, obscenely. If that does not degrade the legitimacy of the presidency of the Generalitat of Catalonia, let God come and see him. Two. They intend to deepen a model that you yourselves have repeatedly recognized failed at the end of the previous legislature, and they intend to deepen because they are the same protagonists, practically the same mistrusts, the same gusts and the same war opened by the armchair and the prebends. Yesterday you dictated a very long branch of laws that Catalonia needs. Some, we do not share, but others are indeed necessary. But with what majority will you approve them, if you are exactly the same? And the worst question: if in this legislature, being the same, they say they can, why in the previous one they did not, if they were exactly the same, with the same mistrusts, the same taunts and the same obsession with the prebendas and the armchair? Three. You insist on the conflict with Spain. It's a suicidal idea. Does it harm all this that has happened in recent years in Catalonia to the whole of Spain? Yeah. This issue should not be underestimated. What happens harms the whole of Spain. But, above all, the real destroyer is that part of Spain called Catalonia. You artificially create a conflict and pose an impossible resolution of it, absolutely impossible, precisely because you do not want to solve it, because you want and live from the conflict. When you say that the only solution to the conflict is self-determination and amnesty, you know perfectly well that there will be no solution because they are impossible. Among other things, because self-determination is reserved in international law for colonies, and Catalonia is not a colony. And, moreover, do not manipulate, do not deceive: what happened in Scotland is not the recognition of a colony of the right to self-determination; what happened in Scotland was the agreement between two governments, subsequently ratified by the Scottish Parliament and the British Parliament – the British Parliament – respecting the law. And the Scots have always respected the law, which is the great difference: when they have said no, it is the vast majority of times, and the time they have said yes. But they have respected the law. Those who have to learn from the Scots, in any case, should be you, because now you are going to say no, you have already said no. Will the Scots launch a unilateral adventure like the one you launched? No, no, They will accept the no, and they will accept it because the law determines that a ratified agreement has to be produced later in Parliament. Therefore, if you want to do like the Scots, go to the Congress of Deputies, and accept the vote that comes from there; do, indeed, as in Scotland. Amnesty. Exactly the same, we have explained it here on many occasions. Amnesty requires the transition from a dictatorial regime to a democracy. In amnesty, conduct that was criminal in a dictatorial regime, such as political association, with the transition to democracy ceases to be criminal, and, consequently, amnesty occurs. But I must remind you that embezzlement is not an ideology, it is a very serious crime, and therefore there is no amnesty for a figure such as embezzlement, among other crimes. Four. Deepen you in the process. Processism is a very peculiar practice; it does not seek independence, it is a modus vivendi, it is the modus vivendi that you have for hegemony and the distribution of the prebenda and the armchair. In fact, his forty-and-six-page document no longer hides in the Phoenician market the distribution of pre-bends and fierce fighting for the chairs. His speech yesterday had absolutely nothing to do with the forty-and-six-page document. Point number five. You continue with the competition of cunning, master games, taunts and mistrust. And this time, Mr. Aragonès, I'd say his shirt was raised. I'll explain myself. In addition to leaving the honorary president to Waterloo's orders, they take away the European funds – I don't know if it goes very well. Anyway, do you have more power than I do? Man, yes, but not much, as seen. Because, in fact, I'm not renting you all the money, because when things get messy your government partners will blame you for matters in which they have taken away your competition. I don't think you've done a very good deal, Mr. Aragonès, in the deal you just signed. Point number six. They introduce control and coordination mechanisms. I would rather define them as'self-control mechanisms', because you are so addicted to conflict that you are even addicted to conflict between you, and you have to create self-help therapies in order not to give milk around the corners. I, when I read about the days of cohabitation that you were going to do, at last [[the timer riu]] I couldn't believe it; I say, "This is a joke, it can't be. It was true – it was true. And, finally, I don't know, I was saying: "Don't make it so easy for me. The first feeling that I had, therefore, as a member of this chamber is that of a stubborn one; that is, to see the future government of Catalonia turned into meme walkante flesh... Well, look at the social networks: The island of temptations, they said, Survivors, Grand Brother, « edredoning indepe... Well, it was a real festival when you brought out the news of those days of coexistence that you are going to have among yourselves. Since the matter is so obvious, I will refrain from hurling into the comic wound, although I recognize that I would give anything to see them in pajamas commenting on the play in such coexistence. But I'll get a little more serious about the argument. Do you not realize, Mr Aragonese, that what you recognize before public opinion is that you need to spend a few days together because you can't stand it? How is a government going to work among people who can't stand it? Tell me about it. Let's see if later, in your speech, you are able to convince me of that, because I don't have the feeling that you are able to convince me that you will be able to have a pleasant climate to govern, because we know perfectly well what has happened between you all this time. Point number seven, your agreement will represent for Catalonia more taxes, more business exit and greater loss of economic leadership. Point number eight, your agreement is not ambitious for Catalonia. Draws a defeated Catalonia, sad, cizanera and rondinaire. It is amazing to see independent nationalist politicians who have come a time when, instead of asking for more powers, they are calling for their re-centralisation through fiscal harmonisation. You no longer aspire to compete, you just aspire to annoy other competitors. How sad to see Catalonia in these conditions! Nine, his agreement represents the greatest humiliation in history for the Mossos d'Esquadra, giving reason to those who believe that a mosso, in front of whom throws a dowry or burns a container, can only give him two kisses and give him a margarita. I wanted to convey to the Mossos d'Esquadra all our support, our solidarity and that we will defend their work and their dignity as guarantors of the security of all. And point number ten, that this is the answer we're going to give to all this. We are going to defend freedom« to Catalan, because it is in Catalonia where freedom is most needed, precisely because in Catalonia it is the place where individual freedom is most attacked. Freedom to choose the educational centre; freedom to label your business as you wish; freedom to use the language you want, not only in your private sphere but also in institutions or in the educational system; freedom to move freely without fear of illegally occupying your home or stealing your wallet; freedom« to Catalan, yes, because here there are two ways to understand freedom. You believe that freedom is self-determination and independence, you believe that there is only collective freedom and you are willing to trample on authentic individual freedoms in the name of that supposed right, which above is an imaginary right. We believe that freedom is the individual rights of each and every Catalan as human beings, as people, and it will be exciting and we will not tire of confronting these two models whenever necessary. And we will do so, indeed, from a minority position in this House, but shared by many Catalans, whether they have voted or not, to whom we defend and will always do so with conviction, determination and enthusiasm. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.29.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.30.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, advisers, deputies, deputies, deputy Fernández and deputies of the Mixt group. I believe in your intervention, you have used us to interventions in which the use of caricature is very useful. I don't know if you like to draw, but if you like to draw, surely, it would be a cartoon drawing, wouldn't it? , caricaturize institutions, caricaturize political projects, caricaturize even the personality of honest countries, well, caricaturize. I think everything folded is more serious, the one we're addressing here. And it is more serious in the sense that we have a country affected by a pandemic and that the economic and social reconstruction we want to bring to completion must be a reconstruction from everyone's rights and opportunities. It doesn't have to be a reconstruction to get back to the model that there was, with these models that maybe you like the most, but they're not the ones that I defend from a market that doesn't have limits, a market that doesn't have a regular rule where the law of the strongest prevails. That's not the model. We want a model based on rights and freedoms, with shared prosperity and therefore needs an active role of the administrations in this economic and social reconstruction. And that's one of the first pillars we'll do. And the second, settle a political conflict, yes. Because the political conflict that you say we have created, listen to me, the long historical trajectory of this country laying down... That it is a conflict of historical backgrounds, I recognize it, no, it will not be easy, but this long path of struggle for the freedom of the country because at every time Catalonia can be the one that wants its citizens and that this is our objective, that at every historical moment this country can have the levels of freedom, the levels of relationship, of interrelationship that it wants its citizenship. This is what championed political Catalanism. And so, now what I'm responding to is resolving this political conflict, which is obviously there, with the dialog, with the negotiation, like the advanced countries. You made reference to me, I made reference to it yesterday to Scotland and the United Kingdom. There was a will of understanding, a will of understanding, which is what has not been done in the governments of the State and in which the governments of its party have had a great deal of responsibility for this lack of understanding. Now we will persevere for a negotiation that will not be easy, in which we will go with all the strength of citizen mobilization also, with all the strength also of a large majority of this Parliament, are aware of the difficulties that we find ourselves for the way but with all the determination to be able to find a democratic solution, in which there are no people in prison for their ideas, for their political views and not to be masked with the following five crimes interpreted in the following ways. And we will rule thinking of everyone, for many cartoons that you want to do, that you want to do, we will rule thinking of everyone. You ended up calling for freedom. There's a poem by Joan Margarit, precious, that's called Freedom. I thought that in the accounts of quoting the freedom of the open bars, I would quote Joan Margarit's freedom. Surely as he says freedom is a king taking the path of exile, he didn't want to do it, but in any case freedom will always be what people decide and that's why we fight. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.31.0	Yes, to answer the word now, Mr. Alejandro Fernández, for a four-minute, forty-second time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.32.0	Thank you very much, President. Look, Mr Aragonès, we do have a different economic model, indeed. And that model that we defend, which are moderate taxes, smaller bureaucratic hurdles, has historically proved to be working. And the model that you defend, you always start with an advantage, that you compare it with utopia and never with reality. You're going to try to convince us that it's going to work the same way you've done over the past five years, that it's been an agenda dominated by the way you understand the CUP economy. But since they never want to compare with reality, but with utopia, they start with that advantage. Its economic model has failed and is leading Catalonia, which had led virtually all economic indicators in Spain, fourth, fifth. And, I repeat, I had never needed Catalonia to, in the end, have political advantages in order to be able to lead the Spanish economy for decades and decades, in very earlier times. And precisely, you go and lose leadership in the stage at which the economic policies that you have so fervently defended here have developed. Secondly, I repeat to you again, respect the law as the Scots. The Scots just said no and they're not going to mess up the mess you guys set up in 2017. That's the big difference. When you say yes and when you say no, when it suits you and when it doesn't suit you, the law is respected. And that's how democracies work. That is precisely why you have been profoundly anti-democratic all this time. Then there's one thing that bothers me especially because, finally, one, then, try... I've talked about freedom and I've talked about a series of parameters that exemplify freedom for me, right? And then, you've pulled the bar stuff out. Look, I haven't talked about Madrid, I haven't spoken the word Madrid in all my speech. You have a madriditis that doesn't take it off. Because, moreover, I have deliberately not spoken. Look, I remember – I'm a cule, as everyone knows – and I remember that one of the things that... Cruyff had two flaws: he badly planned the games and there was a moment that his figure was believed to be, he made a bit of a fuss. But the greatest contribution in the history of cruyffismo to Barça is to have broken the inferiority complex with Madrid, to have introduced a winning mentality. You are absolutely complexed in front of Madrid right now. To the point that I have not spoken the word Madrid and the opening of bars – I have spoken about the ability to label your trade as you wish, about the freedom of parents to choose an educational model of their children, about the right to private property as the ultimate foundation of freedom – and you leave me with the bars. Why? Well, because you see someone from the PP and then they start with the monster: this is Madrid, this is Madrid. No, Mr. Aragonès, no. This is Catalonia and I'm talking about Catalonia and I'm talking about Catalonia's problems. And if you don't have the rhetorical capacity to respond with skill, don't come to me with Madrid, because it's five hundred miles away and it's not the problems we have here. Try to talk about the problems we have here in Catalonia. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.33.0	The words "Mrs. Marta Vilalta", spokesman for the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.34.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies. Vice President, candidate, Pere, friend. Very good morning to everyone. And allow me today, before I begin, to make a very grateful, very sincere and very emotional greeting to Oriol Junqueras. Welcome back to Parliament, Oriol. [[Greetings.]] Today and we'd be back here safe or, in any case, here talking, too. Today's a day for you, too. For you, for all prisoners and political prisoners, for exiles and exiles and for so many retaliated people. It's a day for you and for all reprisals and reprisals, because it's a good day to say the ballot boxes are winning. Because it's a good day to say that the ballot boxes win the repression and that the repression won't be able to. And that despite everything, despite this relentless repression, here we are no longer to be the fruit of many defeats and to be the fruit of all victories. But, above all, it's an important day because today we put the needle in this new government that needs to be able to complete with more tools, with more tools than a functioning government, it needs to be able to complete this goal as much as we have, which is to help people. That's why we're here. And to do so now in this absolutely complicated context, both at the social level and at the economic level and at the work level, as well as at the emotional level, is an extreme urgency and takes more sense than anything else we need to do. It's also a rising day, it's also an important day, today, because for the first time we have a government of the left, a government of the republic, an independent government, at the time, and with Pere Aragonès as president of the front. And that, frankly, is great news for the country. Today a new Republican Generalitat began to walk, inherited from an immense historical arrival, it is obvious. A new government that runs in this history that precedes us and also precedes the Catalan institutions of this country, but that, above all, more than looking back must know how to look forward. He must be able to face this future that we have before us to build a new Republican Generality that must work tirelessly for the country and its people. And, as Mr. Aragones said yesterday, for everyone, for everyone in this country. Today, more than eighty years later, a president of the Republican Left democratically elected for this Parliament returns to the presidency of the Generality. And you will understand that today, therefore, in the ranks of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, there are some strong words, which are: hope, compromise, responsibility and honour. Some words that, of course, Mr Aragonès, must also be shared with you. We know that we are here because of the confidence that people have placed in us, and this requires us to return with the utmost effort to this end, this end of the ballot box, and to do so, obviously, with integrity, with honesty, with humility and also with determination. And to continue putting these institutions at the service of the people so that they can promote a social rescue, so that they can create a reconstruction and a transformation of the country, and, of course, so that they can advance towards the Catalan Republic. Because without independence there will not have been enough rescue or complete reconstruction. That's why we're independent. Just for that. It's very easy to hear. We want independence because we know that independence in Catalonia is the best way, it's the best way to help people, to stand next to people, to shield rights, to fight privileges and corrupt them. And if not, let someone say which other political projects today in the march of this irreformable State can aggregate this possibility of a better life. Which other political projects and collection is able to question the citizenry as majors of age. What other proposal for the future is absolutely transformative and full of hope. This political project is independence, it is the fact of wanting to achieve this Catalan republic that with the persevering will to build this country free offers a horizon for everyone, a horizon for everyone based on equality, freedom and fraternity. Today, the third one's the one that's won. It wasn't March 26th, it wasn't March 30th, but today yes, today yes, finally, Pere. It's been a long time, it's true. We urgently needed to make a government, especially in this context of crisis..., and at this time I want to thank all the essential workers who during these months have given it all to overcome this pandemic situation, and also to the citizenry to act in a responsible manner. But they've been, you know, practically more than 240 days with a government without a president because of repression and with a government in place. More than three months of negotiations that we saw as they were dilated incomprehensiblely and that we thought this was irresponsible. We looked for and wanted a good deal and urgently. With the CUP, with the company of the CUP, we made it possible soon. Together for Catalonia it has been too slow, but we have also been able to do so. We arrive today with the dues made, so, yes, in this room with the dues made. It's true that we've taken too long, in a context where we can't afford it, so we also want to apologize to the people. And we pledge to regenerate this train of complicity that we want to exist between the institutions of our country and the citizenry. We arrive here, in this House, with dues, with two agreements, with two great agreements, a coalition government agreement and a programmatic and stability pact for the next few years, but we want to forge a third alliance: the coalition with the people, which we believe is what we now need to work on and we need to make possible. And that is why, in order to achieve this, this great coalition, this great alliance between the Catalan institutions and the citizenry, is essential, Mr Aragones, to recover the value of the Catalan institutions, which the State wants to weaken, which it wants to impoverish, which it wants to divide. And, therefore, we must know how to defend, we must know how to defend, we must know how to strengthen and we must know how to reprimand. And that's because these institutions act and can work without any protection, no interference, no interference, no politics, no justice, and, above all... – judicial or police – and especially, this great alliance is achieved, or we can achieve this great alliance with citizenship by making the institutions, the Presidency of the Generality, the government in its conjunction and obviously this Parliament is also useful to the people. That'll be the best way to forge this alliance. We are, therefore, putting ourselves on the march and avoiding elections that we believe would have been once again irresponsible, that it is not worth it – citizens do not deserve it – and today we are also out of this situation of temporaryity, inter-initiation, which has governed the last few months in our country. We have also preserved the outcome, the democratic mandate of the 14th of February. A result that was very clear: an independence victory as never before; we had almost never managed to steal 52 percent of the independence votes, and a turn to the left too important. And these two great readings are true at the time: a double victory of left and independence, and I would like to reiterate once again that we fix ourselves, that in independence they are mostly the left and in the left is mostly the independence project. These two majorities, this double independence and left-wing victory, have a central axis, a central pillar, which is the Republican Left of Catalonia that connects them. And that's exactly why we know and reiterate that the key to our future is to work together with these two majorities and assume, therefore, that freedom..., that social struggle goes hand in hand, must go at once with national struggle; that social struggle and national struggle are indestriable. On these two great pillars, social justice and national freedom, it is upon which we must design and build the country we want to build. And in this sense, it was pointed out yesterday by Mr Aragones, but it is obvious that we share it, we propose four revolutions: the feminist revolution, because the perspective of gender is present in all public policies, in order to obviously eradicate all forms of masculinism and ensure that everyone can develop their life plan without any limit or discrimination. A single revolution, environmentalist, to put on fresh and start reversing the effects of..., "start, no, continue to reverse the effects with all urgency of climate change, face the transformation of the energy model, which we want to renewable, democratic, zero kilometre and free of oligopolises; also bet for this green economy and above all promote also a cultural change on how we produce and how we consume as society. A third revolution: social, progress. To ensure everyone's home and work, to guarantee everyone's health and education, with a new economic model that guarantees equality and equity as well as opportunities, that ensures shared prosperity, that therefore guarantees everyone's well-being, and that we get out of this new wave of crisis without leaving anyone behind. And, finally, a fourth revolution: democracy, which is essential. We would be wrong if we did not face the democratic revolution, it would be the project of future and country. The fourth revolution, this, the democratic one, obviously compromises with the participation of the citizen, compromises the good government and with transparency, but also in a special way, compromises with the will of the majority of this Parliament and of our society in order to make the amnesty and self-determination inevitable as the formula of resolution of the political conflict that exists between Catalonia and the State. And these four revolutions, plus, we know that they are, that they have to be, that they will be and that we will also make the tomb of the Feixism in Catalonia. Today we apply – we apply in a few minutes – seventy-four votes for the investiture of Pere Aragonès after the agreements to which we have reached between Esquerra Republicana and the CUP, between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. Two agreements which are complementary, representing the independenceist majority in our country, which also represent this accent of the left and the progressive compromise in the deployment of public policies. You know, the deal between the CUP and the Republican Left is a small deal, certainly, but moving up. We think so. Looking both at the social level and at the national level, but also for everything it means. It serves to lay the first stone of this necessary and essential transformation for the model of country that we adopt, and which, among others, must immediately enable us to face up to the housing emergency, strengthen primary care and the system of public and universal salvation, change the model, also public order in our country and prepare us for a new democratic debate. In the same way, the agreement between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana allows us to lay the foundations of a strategic consensus absolutely essential. It's been a long time since we've been repeating ourselves, that we say we need to be able to forge this strategic consensus. Besides, this agreement also details the embryo of what the future plan of government should be and what it should allow us to do, right? , to develop sectoral policies that can guarantee welfare, promote social cohesion, defend the economy for life and guarantee territorial cohesion, and promote good governance and democratic cohesion. This agreement also identifies the principles to be governed by, therefore, the governing coalition, this new government of our country, which is the one of co-responsibility, institutional loyalty and mutual respect, as well as all the necessary coordination spaces that must ensure that this can be done in the best possible way, because we want to learn from mistakes, and therefore also respond, this governing agreement, to this objective. We are renewing these trusts, certainly, with the agreement we have signed, today with the vote that in a few minutes' time we will have a place to renew these trusts. And it will depend on all of us that all of this works. We will put everything on our side to go as far as possible, and with this double agreement, both with Juntes for Catalonia and with the CUP. And that together with the Republican Left Group, we can put on the march..., in fact, today we will definitely put on the march this legislature, we will put on the march this new Republican Generality, which yesterday explained to us, therefore, the candidate and vice president – future president in brief –, Pere Aragonès, this new stage in our country with the republican values as the flag, with the independence compromise more firm than ever and with a progressive and left-wing accent. In fact, from the Republican Left we want to recover that transformative spirit of which was the Republican General of the thirties, and we feel heresy and heresy, therefore, of all those social, national and transformative adventures that there were. If that Catalan republic that was born in 1931, then with the republic leadership, served to win rights, especially for women, such as the right to vote, access to education in equal conditions, the recognition of civil marriage, the law of divorce or, even more, the right to abortion, the new republican generality that we are putting on the march today must put the needle from the zero minute to face the country's emergencies and go on conquering and shielding rights. In fact, we don't have to make anything new that these last few years we've been through. So we're taking the women and the men of the Republican Left to the outside of this government. For example, from the Department of Economy, through which we managed to recover the expenditure and social investment that there was in 2010 without increasing the deficit. Or to the head of the Department of Health, captaining the overcoming of a global pandemic with a vaccination campaign that has dispensed more than 3,7_million cows and that allows us to already clear the exit from this situation, as well as the incorporation of more than thirty_ thousand meths into the health system and to have been able to reverse some of the details to the primary attention. How do the men and women of Esquerra carry it to the head of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, guaranteeing rights for all citizens and creating us, such as guaranteed income of citizens or with what must be the deployment of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Law. Or to the captivator of Justicia, legislator to guarantee the right to habitat and dignifying the historical memory. Or to the front also of Exterior and Transparency, explaining Catalonia to the world, despite the establishment of Spanish diplomacy and despite the economic repression of the State; also recovering the investment in development cooperation and equipping us with new tools to guarantee a cleaner government, honesty and a strategy to fight corruption. And also, of course, at the head of the Department of Education, making the schools open and secure spaces that guarantee the right to education, and fighting without rest against segregation, also with the School Digitization Plan, which is a great step towards the modernization of the Catalan school. And from agriculture also, obviously, with the stake for food as a strategic pillar for the territorial development of our country. That's why I want to thank the task that the Consellers and Consellers of the Republican Left have made in conditions not always easy, with the will to serve the public and to be useful to the citizenry. And I want to extend this grace to all the members of the government, all the counselors and counselors who in times of absolute difficulty, with a functioning government, with the relentless repression that has never stopped, you've been giving it all to this country. So, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] And now it's time to move on. We want to continue with the commitments to deploy a social rescue plan with €700_million; to be able to work for the free education of zero to three years; to develop an essential mental and emotional health plan for our country; the transformation of the entire social care system and of cures; to design a new social contract to guarantee everyone the right to housing, the right to water, also to energy and connectivity, developed in the National Pact for the Ecological Transition, and to be able to promote a public energy; the increase up to 2_percent of the burden of investment in the cultural field, in the Department of Culture, and the deployment, in order to give some examples, of the rural agenda to guarantee territorial equity to our country as well. That is why, for all that we have already done, for all that we have to do, today, frankly, we cannot understand that those who share, it seems, the agenda of transformative ambition, today turn the board. They can't hear you. Before Mrs Albiach, the company of the commons, seems to us to be able to look for the excuses they wanted, but today they will vote against investing a president of the left to make policy of the left; they will vote against an agenda of government that includes the deployment of a pilot plan for universal basic income; against fighting against school segregation and recovering, therefore, private centers to public education; against universalizing education from zero to three years; against thousands of annual floors at the public language park. That is why today we regret that some leftists, therefore, in this country have decided to disagree with this opportunity that we consider historic. We will certainly explore an alternative and at the first moment – at the first moment that they had the opportunity – they were taken back. We'll keep trying, honestly, we'll keep trying. We will continue to try, because we are convinced that an extended agreement is the best that can pass on to this country. All this social compromise that was now being detailed, which is the result of these governing agreements that we have reached with Juntes for Catalonia, which we have reached with the CUP, and which must be able to take place at this new stage of the Republican Generality, went in parallel with making the most of our efforts in the medium term, accelerating the economic and social reconstruction of the country and, obviously, going in parallel, we must work in a compatible way, channeling this 52_per_cent of independence vote to advance and complete the path towards the Catalan Republic. And now I'm referring a moment to Mr. Illa, because yes, yesterday Mr. Illa came out here to the Faristol, and we have to tell her that, even though you don't want to, the Catalan Republic will be. We don't know when, but it will be, Salvador Illa, yes, it will be. [[Greetings.]] The Catalan Republic will be. And it will be, despite you, despite what you represent, it will be, because it cannot go against democracy, because it cannot go against the popular will of the social majority, the great consensus of the country. The great consensus, the majority, the popular will is what has been imposed. In fact, yesterday also said the Lord Illa who is claimed as the Tarradelista. Let me 'express in this way: you know what I was saying too, Tarradellas? « Catalunya will have its freedom with the republic or there will be no such freedom. That same Tarradella that you claimed yesterday also said that. [[Greetings.]] And do you know who Tarradellas was? - Obviously you do, huh? But I add information. Josep Tarradellas was Secretary General of Esquerra Republicana, and as Secretary General of Esquerra Republicana suffered exile. Josep Tarradellas was president of the Generality, and as president of the Generality he suffered exile. You also have a President of the Generality, President Puigdemont, and also a General Secretary of the Republican Left, Marta Rovira, suffer exiles, precisely for having presided over the Generality one, for having been General Secretary of the Republican Left the other. [[Widow's remorse.]] If you want to claim Tarradelista... – yes, yes –, if you want to claim or if you want to claim the figure of President Tarradelellas work also for an amnesty that guarantees the return to Catalonia of all political exiles and exiles. [[Greetings.]] And yesterday too... I can hardly refer to it, but yesterday it was also about vetoes in this Parliament, and do you know who lays vetoes? So those who add up to the same dynamics that have existed so far in the Spanish State and veto a democratic response to the political conflict. When we believe that the obligation of all, also yours and ours, is to dialogue: no clavegueres, no brute war, no police persecution, no judicial persecution. We challenge them to have the courage to vote, to engage in dialogue, to negotiate and to seek a political and democratic solution to the political conflict; to vote and vote; to decide between all of us. You asked yesterday, Mr. Illa, how it is dialogue with vetoes. I want to ask you: how do you think you can talk to prisoners? And you know what? It is that we have the answer, because unfortunately everything, despite repression and having taken political hold of our country, we want to try to negotiate to achieve this amnesty and this self-determination, because we are absolutely convinced that the answer must come from democracy and from the word, for politics and for the proposal. We will not be imprisoned or exiled to take the word and the force of becoming through ballot boxes and votes. And we'll follow up on defense and defense and defense. [[Greetings.]] And for this reason, in order to continue to defend this democratic solution, this path that must culminate with a Catalan republic, we propose to articulate a national agreement for self-determination and amnesty on the basis of the great consensus of the country; to lead a negotiation process with the State through the negotiating table; to internationalize the cause and explore international complicity, to see if there can be an intervention also by European bodies; to coordinate the anti-repressive strategy, and to continue preparing us to accumulate forces to generate the conditions that enable us to win the path of freedom through the democratic debate that is needed. All from the sum of the will, from the will of the whole and to feed a consensus that is basic to advance. I'm done. After forty years of restoration to the Parliament of Catalonia, we saw how the country's institutions either ran the PSC or ran the old Convergence and its heretics. Before it was classified that way: either you're a nationalist or you're a leftist. [[Widow's remorse.]] Or political ugly to defend Catalonia or social ugly progress. Thus, the different political families were historically labeled at the length of these forty years in Catalonia. These were the rules of the game that had happened here in Catalonia, and that, in fact, the Spanish State passed the same. With the same rules of the game, in this case the same rules of the 78, passed – and in fact still passes the same –: either handled the PP or handled the PSOE, with some influence, yes, and with small derivatives. Some consider that a few years ago it was produced a sham to these rules of the game, with the 15-M move, but the fact is that they did not manage to alter these rules of the game to the State: keep the same, or hand the PP or hand the PSOE. [[Widow's remorse.]] And in fact, things that are important for the State – migration policy, Francoist heritage, bourbons or bulls – are not touched. But there is a movement that leads and builds the true goal to the totality of the 78th Regime and to which they have also lived all their lives. And this movement is Catalan independence, a terratremol that goes from the moon and that in the last decades has been creating a constant seal that has been made every time bigger. For example, the list of the words of Jordi Carbonell, when he denounced the resignations of the Transition in his speech of September 11th, 76; the choice of the nationalists of the left who always made it clear that the social struggle and the national struggle was a false dilemma; the choice of the first three independent members here in this Parliament of Catalonia, Josep-Lluís Carod-Rovira, Miquel Pueyo and Angel Colom, claiming self-determination in 1989, with a resolution that would now be the subject of legal persecution; the choice of the first Catalanist government and of the left when the Republican Left became decisive and in the PSC, still had leaders standing before the social and national event; the choice of the first Catalanist government and of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right; the right to the right to the right to the right to the right of the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to the right to In this session, we will invest Pere Aragonès as President of the Generality, with seventy-four votes in favour, with the support of three parliamentary groups and two agreements that call for more than 52 per cent of the electorate that voted, so the parties that will support this investiture. Yesterday, it was Salvador Illa who criticized that Pere Aragonès was the only president who needed three investment debates to get out of the box. But, to be sure, there have only been two moments when the President of the Generality of our country has been invested by seventy-four votes in favour or more: the first, the moment of the recovery of the post-Transition Catalan institutions, 1980, when Jordi Pujol was invested with seventy-five votes in favour; the second time, the moment of change, when Pasqual Maragall, in that case, also became President, obtained seventy-four votes to make the first Catalanist and left-wing government. And today we find another key moment again, today we have another key moment in this chamber: after the alternation "socio-vergent today we will invest the first Republican president chosen at the polls since the feixist violence escaped the Generality of Lluís Companies, of President Companies. [[Greetings.]] And we will do it – and we will do it –: we will reinvest a president, or we will invest a president of Esquerra Republicana, while the president of this party, Oriol Junqueras, is in prison and the general secretary of this organization, Marta Rovira, is in exile, as he has sometimes passed to the history of this organization; and we will make this investment while hundreds of activists, citizens of this country, still suffer repression to defend the right to self-determination and freedom of our people. And unfortunately, we will do it; and we are still here, persisting, because we know that this is the way we can win. After eighty years, to the name of Macià, Companies, Irla and Tarradellas, today we add the name also of Pere Aragonès, and, therefore, we add the thirty-three votes of Esquerra Republicana to his candidacy, Mr Aragonès, and we pass, we will pass, to say « Pere, company and friend, to call you « President Aragonès ; with all that means, with all the letters of his name. We are aware that the new Republican Generality must be at the height of this historic moment. Republicans and Republicans come to rule to transform and win this freedom. Let me finish, now, with a more personal reference, as I did at the first investment debate, and I repeat, they say that personal is political. Today we are proud of you, Pere, and of this project in which you represent us. I'm sure you're aware of the responsibility that you'll have from now on, as you say, being the first of our country's public servants. You have us at your side, and we will work to keep this majority that you will be able to and to expand it, certainly; we will work to expand it. We come from youthful fights, from going to weave a kingly thread of battle; we come from being few and when we all know each other; we come from admiring each other, sometimes more in the past; we come from biting stone. And he said in the first debate that... – then there was not a sufficient majority – that hopes could not be put off forever and that it could not reduce the sleep of a better country by looking at partyists; and he said that what seemed impossible only took a little bit longer to arrive and that if it wasn't for the 26th of March, such a time would be the 30th. In the end, fifty-seven more days have passed, but today what we imagined years ago we can do: a leadership of the country from Republicanism with all the letters of what that name means, and now we cling to the hope of the historic opportunity provided by the ballot box. We will work, we will continue to work, to make ourselves worthy of this trust; that it begins, therefore, the republican spring and culminates in the republic of rights and freedoms for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Long and long applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.35.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.36.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies... Deputy Vilalta, deputies of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, many thanks; thanks for the support, thanks for the tenacity, thanks for the pocket, thanks for the perseverance and for the compromise that have brought us here today. If today we can open a new stage, like the country, with a lot of people, much more than our parliamentary group represents; if we can open a new stage with this independence and progress that is in this chamber; if we can open a new stage, focusing on the objective of the rights and freedoms of this economic and social reconstruction in progress, if we do not let anyone go, and with the greatest ambition to make it possible to complete the independence of Catalonia, it is thanks to the fact that a lot of people have preceded us on the road, that a lot of people at times of difficulty or when we were..., as Mrs Vilalta has well remembered, when we were so few that we all knew each other, they never left. Left Republican was a party that formed a drink of diverse traditions that accurately represented those yearnings for progress and freedom, the republican tradition, which went much further back in 1931, the tradition of popular Catalanism, the tradition of rabassaries, athenaeums, co-operativeism. This tradition is not a heritage excluded from the Republican Left, but it is true that the Republican Left, our formation, which fulfills for years, has not been one of the most decisive exponents in the history of Catalonia. A party, let me, a party that, less than one month after being formed, makes the Republic and the Catalan Republic protagonist, in 1931, in the elections of April 14, on a day that, remembering that song of the Ovidi Montllor, we could say that it was a day that will last years. So long as it's lasted! For the moment, Noranta. Because if that Catalan republic had not been achieved, there would have been no Generality today. If Macia and Companies were not able to speak to those republican majorities at the country's assembly meetings and make it possible that with the change of rule there has also been a restoration of self-government institutions, and, after an agreement, in the form of a Generality, today this Generality would not be there. If Presidents Irla and Tarradellas had not kept this institution and the Generality in exile, there would be no Generality of Catalonia today. So when we look back, when we look back in history, we realize this kingly thread, which has some names like Macia, Companies, Irla, Tarradellas, of a lot and a lot of people; they are not the only ones, they are not excluded. In fact, history is thanks to hundreds of anonymous protagonists who do not write books or have names in place, but who are the ones making the changes. In our country, many of those who defended the U d'Octubre... won't find names for the streets or the proper names will go out to the books of history, but they also made history that 1 of October. And it's the new passage from..., after that big 14th of April, to move on the path of freedom in the next few years. "If we could see more of it there," said Isaac Newton, "it's because we've lined ourselves up in giant spaces. And there are giants who, beyond all the anonymous protagonists, have proper names. And I'd like to quote a few of us today, political gigants, people who have given it everything, who are giving it everything that is the political project they believe in, and that is not a party project, but it's a project that went much further, from country to country. Oriol Junqueras, Marta Rovira, Carme Forcadell, Dolors Bassa or Raül Romeva are an example, are the companies of Esquerra Republicana, but here I want to add all the exiles and all the exiles, all the prisoners and political pressures, all the people who are painting today repression for having made possible the U of October vote. Today will be a happy day for the people of Republican Esquerra. Certainly, after the election in this Parliament of President Companies, there will again be a Republican leftist activist at the head of the country's highest institution. We don't want it to be a victory of the game; it will correspond to the work we do from now on and – and even to the highest responsibility – that I also do from then on that this victory that someone may see today as a victory of the game becomes a victory of the country. And it will be a victory of country if we are able to make this economic and social reconstruction come to everyone; if we are able to see that, starting from the plurality that exists in this Parliament, from the diversity of ideas and projects, all the citizens can see 'identified and represented by Parliament, by the Government and by the President of Catalonia, even though there is no political agreement, even though they do not feel part of what their party project is. But we must be able to address the country's conjunct, not only in speeches, but also in actions. So, we're close to doing this country victory. L'Oriol Junqueras, in 2011, at one of the most delicate moments in the history of my organization's political project, the Republican Left, said a phrase that was engraved on us, didn't it? , tattooed to the minds, which says: "We are the fruit of many defeats, but we are the fruit of all victories. And these victories, I insist, are not the victories of a party; they must be the victories of a country. For this reason, the transformation program that I presented yesterday is a program in these four areas. In the social sphere, today people still suffer and will continue to see that they do not have a home, that they do not have a home or that they do not have a job, and we have to give an answer, it is our obligation. We still have a production system that still condemns us to precariousness, and that we have to reverse it, and we also have to reverse it on the basis of the collective work that we can do from the institutions, with an economic policy that puts innovation, that also puts public support for the development of ourselves in the market, that favors small and medium-sized enterprises, that makes us stronger, more resilient. A transformation also in the feminist sphere. I want it to be a feminist government, not a word, but a fact, much more than an idea of parity that should already form part of the past, in the sense that we already have, and to project ourselves into new attitudes, with commitments, they are aware that today a clearly feminist compromise is inseparable from a compromise to change an economic system of values and a patriarchal system that still determines a good part of the discrimination that is suffered by our society. I need to bury the privileges and get the rights out. A green transformation. Humanity cannot continue to live by nature and by nature on the planet. If we go on like this, we're ordered to disappear as a species. Therefore, we must tackle the climate change from international and national level cooperation to local level compromise. And we will do it, we will do it in such a way that it is also a just energy transition, that it does not generate more inequalities. Because we don't have to sort between facing the fight against climate change and facing the fight against inequalities, but we have to go intimately connected. And we have to think about the conjunct of the territory. One of the concepts that I have tried to convey in these investment debates was the concept of "Sentenced Catalonia, which I said for the first time in a debate was MP Jordina Freixanet, representing this idea of this sovereignist tradition of socialism in Catalonia. It is the southern Catalonia that we want to build, which does not differ either by socioeconomic origins or by territorial location, which we need to be able to generate a troubled country. At the length of history we have not said many ways, since the Macia plan in its moment – that idea too, right? , from the box and the horte –, the same Commonwealth, across it, and after all the policies that there has been of territorial vertebration. It's time to take a step further. And I also compromised myself with a democratic transformation program. We are very aware of what has happened in the past few years in Catalonia; we are very aware of how many times an interpretation, from my point of view, false and partial of the laws tried to go over the citizen's will. But democracy is unstoppable, democracy is unstoppable if we are strong, if we are strong, if we are overwhelmed with social cohesion. And here there is a political conflict that will be resolved. And, looking at another band—looking at another band—putting it under the captivator, acting like the ostrich when he's hoarding the head, doesn't make the political conflict go away. And it's a conflict, it's a circumstance that has very deep history. You know that. We don't come here to think that now that we take full responsibility, it'll still be in our hands, being a god ex-machine that can solve everything. No, it's not like that. We are aware of the difficulties, but this does not need to be one gram of our determination; we need to have the determination that political conflicts are to be resolved politically, and in a democracy it is voting, and voting there can all participate in the decision on the future of this country. In fact, the majority of independentists want all the citizens of Catalonia to participate, as well as those who today are deprived of their right to vote because of a foreign law that should be overcome. Therefore, this program of transformation will be our compromise. It's the way to convert what today, from an organizational point of view, we feel like a victory into a country victory. I pledge myself; not to be the president of the Republican Left Generality, but to be a president of the Generality for everyone, for all Catalans and all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.37.0	The word has the Lord Josep Maria Jové, d'Esquerra Republicana. [[Pause.]] It's got 11 minutes and a half.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.38.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, vice president, candidate... I am the last Member to speak today in this investiture session; I take the word, and it is impossible not to think about the ones that preceded me and about the depth and transcendence that this entails, and about the emotion. Because, as we often remember a lot of us here today, I'm talking about a responsibility that wouldn't suit me. Since three years ago, we have had to plant ourselves here in front and carry the words of Carles, Oriol, Raül, Josep, Quim, of the three Jordis, of Lluís, of En Toni, of Clara, of Dolors, of Carmel, of Anna and of Marta. It's them and they're supposed to be here today. And it's fair to remember. [[Greetings.]] The responsibility is enormous, because, to be fair, as I said, many of us wouldn't be close to being here, and the responsibility is also enormous because the ballot boxes were extremely clear on the past 14th of February, despite everything, and we can't spoil the opportunity they gave us. Today I take the word, moreover, with another personal responsibility. I do it like the president of the Republican Left Party of Catalonia, the party that proclaimed the republic a few years ago, the party that brought together desires and dreams and gave a look at those men and women who opened up a stage of enlightenment and a change that only ignominy, indecency and death brought about by fascism was shattered. It's an honor to be here today and to give a look at his witnesses. Because today we're not all here, because today we're not exactly what we want, but there we are, we're here, despite the fact that a lot of time ago some of us did everything we could because we weren't, despite the fact that a lot of time ago some of us did everything because we didn't follow. Yeah, we're here today and we'll just sit there and raise our eyes. For all the men and women who were there before, who preceded us, the people of the Republican Left today speak of a historic day. Already ninety years later, Esquerra Republicana will re-place a president in the Generalitat de Catalunya. Today, Mr. Aragones, you will take over the replete of the late President of the Republican Left General chosen with parliamentary normality, will do about eighty years: Lluís Companies. I know that for you this adds, if you can, a greater emotional load to the responsibility that the charge carries. I know that you are aware of how few of the kingly thread of combat connects us with those republican women and men of the thirties who gave it everything – everything – for Catalonia, for the republic and for freedom. And on this path he'll find us at his side to make it possible. Today you will be invested as president, as president of Catalonia, captivating a government that has built around a democratic force of seventy-four members and independent deputies, and with a social program and left-wing transformation, clearly left-wing. But you have the right, and we know that the will, because you have constantly reminded me of these days, to rule for everyone, from independence, yes, but for the country's conjunction. Republicans are willing to integrate because our project is an open, democratic and willful project, because this is the Catalonia we want. This national Catalonia, which includes, integrates and incorporates everyone who wants to be part of this country freely, on the margins of its origins, independently of the birthplace, the surnames or the language spoken at home. Carod-Rovira pointed out to me now that he would be divided into another investment debate years ago and said: "One nation is the people, one country is the people and there is no history of it, but neither is there any intention, no project of the future, of the future shared among all its members. And he also told us, in his own investment debate, President Carles Puigdemont: "The country, we will never forget, we are all. Catalonia is inclusive, which is when it's stronger. This is why it is diverse in cultures, languages, customs and beliefs. You today, Mr. candidate, will be invested with a parliamentary majority with very few precedents. We have succeeded, he has managed to weave the complicitys of the exceptional moments of our recent history. It is true that he did not have that undeniable hegemony of the thirties, but today the independence of the left has other political expressions, also present in this chamber. And it's a spell. It is a fate that we can count on your critical and revolutionary consciousness. It is a fate that always takes away from you the maximum of protest, even when it serves no purpose, because it always serves and serves a lot. As long as independence is today, it's the only goal of totality in the 78's rule. And this is another of the responsibilities that you, and all of us who will cost it, have: to bring down the pillars of a corrupt and anachronistic political regime that does not only hold our country, but also to play an unbearable role in social justice, to end privileges and to end inequalities. Mr. Aragones, today will be invested and the moment is difficult, he said. The crises that pass through our society have no precedents and we can't get out of them, once more, make them pay the usual. We need to get out of it by transforming the social and economic model that has brought us and facing the political conflict between Catalonia and the State in a decisive and timeless way. Because we're the ones who don't give up. Because we are the fruit of many defeats, but we are the result of all victories. We'll continue to curse for amnesty and self-determination. Because an agreement to decide our future must be possible, because ours is a legitimate and democratic demand. In our view, Catalonia has right to decide and has right to self-determination, a right that is inherent in us, that does not prescribe us, that no one can revoke us and that we ourselves cannot renounce. I said the esteemed Marta Rovira, in this room, she doesn't care for years. You are aware that the new government that will lead must be at the height of this historic moment. Republicans and Republicans want to rule to transform reality, to gain freedom and for us this goes through independence and the Catalan Republic. We're coming from a long way. And we come, of course, from the U of October, and we also come from all the struggles for the social and democratic rights that this society has forged. That is why we certainly defend with cough a way of doing that today has been centralized as never before, and we demand to maintain some noble principles, fair, necessary without renouncing them. For this reason today, as I gave them to the beginning, we are still here despite repression, which is, despite relentless revenge, which persists, for all who suffer from it we are still here. And when freedom is full and when political prisoners and prisoners and exiles and exiles come back, and repression and persecution end against all those who once enjoyed raising their eyes, that day will be a day that will last for years, as the Ovid said and as I always remember a very good friend. And today added, the arrival of this day is inevitable, because we will make it inevitable. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Candidate, Pere, thank you very much. All the fate of the world, all the strength and all the heart. You have the great honor of being able to help make Catalonia a free, unequal and just country for everyone. Visca Catalunya free. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.39.0	After the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups, we shall proceed to the vote, which shall be made public and by request. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Catalan sign language interpreters who have been transmitting the day of yesterday and today's intervention. They are Alexander Hernández, Estefanía Pérez, Marta Mundó and Adriana Tejero. And according to Rule 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, and Rule 150 of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, because the successful candidate invested has to get the votes of the absolute majority. This choice also includes approval of the government program. As announced, the vote is public and by cry. We will vote in alphabetical order starting for the Member whose name you are looking for. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin.]] It was number 31, Anna Maria Erra and Solà. Therefore, first of all, I call on the first secretary, Mr Ferran Pedret, and then on to the third secretary, Mr Pau Juvillà, to call the deputies and the deputies, and they will answer 'yes or 'no' or declare that they are abstaining. I had called for a vote, we have all the deputies present in the Chamber, I understand. I'll do it again. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.40.0	Let's get started, then. Anna Maria Erra i Solà: "Yes. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Ramon Swordler Partners: "No. Mercè Esteve i Pi : « Yes. Laia Estrada Canon : « Yes. Ferran Estruch i Torrents : « Yes. Jordi Fàbrega and Sabaté: "Yes. Anna Feliu Moragues: "Yes. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. Juli Fernández and Olivares: "Yes. Lucas Silvano Ferro Sole : « No. Antoni Flores i Ardiaca : « Yes. Gloria Freixa and Vilardell: "Yes. Jordina Freixanet i Pardo: "Yes. Antonio Gallego Burgos : « No. Joan Carles Gallego i Herrera: "No. Maria Elisa García Fuster: "No. Mario García Gómez : « No. Joan García González: "No. Joan Carles Garcia Guillamon: "Yes. Rocio Garcia Pérez : « No. Joan Garriga Doménech: "No. Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao : « No. Gemma Geis i Carreras : « Yes. Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Cristófol Gimeno Iglesias : « No. David González Chanca: "No. Jessica González Herrera: "No. Anna Grau Arias : « No. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Salvador Illa i Roca: "No. Jordi Jordan Farnos : « No. Josep Maria Jové Lladó : « Yes. Maria Assumption Laïlla Jou : « Yes. Isabel Lázaro Pina : « No. Gemma Lienas Massot: "No. Lluïsa Llop and Fernández: "Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.41.0	Antonio Ramón López Gómez : « No. Monica Lora Cisquer: "No. Sergio Macián de Greef: "No. Marta Maderas i Mir: "Yes. Ernest Maragall i Mira: "Yes. Ignacio Martín Blanco : « No. Engelbert Montalà i Pla: "Yes. Pau Morales i Romero : « Yes. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Jordi Munell i Garcia: "Yes. Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Mònica Palacín and Paris : « Yes. Joaquim Paladella Shorto : « No. Teresa Pallarès Piqué: "Yes. Silvia Paneque Sureda: "No. Eva Parera i Escrichs: "No. Marc Parés Franzi: "No. Xavier Pellicer Couple: "Yes. David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Núria Picas Albets : « Yes. Lluís Puig Gordi: "Yes. [[Some applause.]] Eulàlia Reguant i Cura: "Yes. Jordi Riba Colom: "No. Carles Riera Albert : « Yes. Monica Ríos García : « No. Josep Rius i Alcaraz: "Yes. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Sylvia Romero Galera : « No. Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Ferran Roquer i Padrosa: "Yes. Juan Luis Ruiz López: "No. Maria Dolors Sabater i Puig: "Yes. Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Mònica Sales de la Cruz : « Yes. Josep Lluís Salvadó Tenesa : « Yes. Raquel Sans Guerra: "Yes. Susanna Segovia Sánchez: "No. Meritxell Serret i Aleu: "Yes. Beatriz Silva Gallardo : « No. Alberto Tarradas Paneque : « No. Francesc Ten i Costa : « Yes. Jordi Terrades Santacreu: "No. Judith Toronjo Nofuentes : « Yes. Roger Torrent Ramíó: "Yes. Salvador Vergés i Tejero: "Yes. Laura Vilagrà Pons: "Yes. Marta Vilalta i Torres : « Yes. Montserrat Vinyets Pagès : « Yes. Maria Jesús Viña i Ariño: "Yes. Rubén Viñuales Elias : « No.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.42.0	Manuel Jesús Acosta Elias: "No. Jordi Albert i Caballero : « Yes. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Judith Alcalá González: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas i Sayrol: "Yes. Oscar Aparicio Pedrosa: "No. Irene Aragonès Gràcia : « Yes. Elsa Artadi i Vila: "Yes. Ana Balsera i Marín: "Yes. Albert Batet i Canadell: "Yes. Maria Antònia Batlle i Andreu: "Yes. Helena Bayo Delgado : « No. Andrés Bello Sanz : « No. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull: "Yes. Joan Canadell i Bruguera: "Yes. Eva Candela Lopez: "No. Dolors Carreras Casany : « No. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Cristina Casol Segués : « Yes. Carles Castillo Rosique : « Yes. Basha Changue Canalejo: "Yes. David Cid Colomer: "No. Bartomeu Conte Masmitjà: "Yes. Dani Cornellà Detrell: "Yes. Francesc de Dalmases i Thió : « Yes. Jenn Díaz Ruiz : « Yes. Elena Díaz Torrevejano : « Yes. No! No! - No, I don't! [[Give me the applause.]] Najat Driuech Ben Moussa: "Yes. It's here. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.43.0	Quiet, and please. Now the government will vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.44.0	Meritxell Budó i Pla : « Yes. Francesc Damià Calvet Valera : « Yes. Esther Capella Farré: "Yes. Chakir El Homrani Lesfar : « Yes. Teresa Jordan and Roura: "Yes. Jordi Puigneró i Ferrer : "Yes. Ramon Tremosa Balsells : « Yes. Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Pere Aragonès Garcia : « Yes. Ruben Wagensberg Ramon... oh, I'm sorry. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do we have him here? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Ruben Wagensberg Ramon : « Yes. Pau Juvillà Ballester: "Yes. Aurora Madaula i Jiménez: "Yes. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. Laura Borràs and Castanyer: "Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.45.0	The result of the vote was the following: 74 votes in favour, 61 votes in favour. As Mr. Pere Aragonès Garcia in this vote has obtained 74 votes in favour, which means the absolute majority established by Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, remains invested president of the Generality of Catalonia. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] The investiture will be communicated to the relevant authorities because the name of the President of the Generality. [[Widow's remorse.]] And at this point, if the President of the Generality wants to go to the chamber, he can do it. [[Pause.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.46.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Counselors and advisers, deputies and deputies of this chamber, citizens of Catalonia, many thanks. It's an honor and it's a great responsibility that I feel about my spaces. I will work to exercise this responsibility with the honorability that this office requires, ruling for everyone and always posing ahead of the service to the citizenry of Catalonia. In this brief Parliament, because we have been talking a lot along these two days and also in the other debates, I would like to make two political personal mentions to two people. In the first place, Vice President Junqueras, Oriol Junqueras. We started to compromise together in this political project, in the political project of serving the people, of working for the freedom of the country, about a few years ago. From then on, we participated together in many areas, in many campaigns, in many mobilizations; I also had the honour of forming part of your team in the Department of Vice-President, Economy and History during the government of President Puigdemont. And I'd like to thank her for her trust, support, and always thank her for her commitment and learning. And, with him, with the grace of him, the grace of all the people of the Republican Left who suffer from repression and who, although they have all helped us to arrive today. And a second personal mention, to a person who, probably without knowing it and probably unconsciously, from many and many years ago was for me a political and personal referent: the first registrar of Republican Esquerra to Pineda after the franchise, in Pere Horta. In Pere Horta, who died three years ago, he was an esteemed person, who embodied, with his own way of doing, with his own professionalism – he was a health care worker, he was a methge – and with his actions when he was governor at the assembly, these republican values. Good friend of the family, he probably wasn't aware of the admiration he generated and that led me to see the people of the Republican Left honest people and with these values. I was glad you could join us today. And at times like this many times there are words that have written others that help us express the responsibility, the responsibility that we serve. There are some verses of Salvador Espriu, of La pell de brau, which I think are perfect when it comes to assuming some responsibilities, especially if they are the most important responsibilities of your country. Say thus: "If you are called to guide/ a short moment/ of the millenary step/ of the generations, / remove gold, / sound and name. / Also the inflority/ emptiness of words, / the shame of the belly/ and honors. / You will impose / the truth/ until death, / without the help/ of the console. / Don't ever hope to leave a record, / because you're so alone/ the humblest/ of the servers. / The outburst/ and the one who suffers/ forever are/ your only lords. I am committed to exercising the office of President of the Government of Catalonia with all personal humility but with all the collective ambition, with more extensive and democratic determination, with hope of serving and with republican values, always serving the citizens of Catalonia. Dream Catalonia free! [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-05-21-0602.47.0	Finally, I invite you to sing the national anthem of Catalonia. [[The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Strong applause and perlongats.]] Let's raise the session.
