ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.1.0	Good morning, let's resume the plenary with questions to the government, with an oral answer. [[Ask the government about the protocols for the covid-19 to the schools]] [[310-00103/13]] Let us begin with the question to the Government to answer orally in full on the protocols of the covid-19 to the schools. The question is posed by Ms Susanna Segovia, of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.2.0	Counselor, I don't know if you share with us that the management of this pandemic has been absolutely adult-centric, that there has been a lot of talk about big issues and a lot of talk about children's and children's issues. It is true that the opening of the schools the past course was a remarkable success. We believe that above all, thanks to the families, the teacher, but above all thanks to the children and the children, who have endured restrictions that were absolutely harsh, with windows open in the winter, the mask eight hours followed, the theme of not being able to sweep, with bottles, to the split ducks... The children and the children have been up. They have been at the height of the answer and of which they were asked to do so, but they also need answers. We think that's what we're not doing. The protocol that governs this course was approved on August 30th and was already a protocol that almost did not have changes compared to the previous year, although we were almost at a seventy percent vaccination. And I'll remind you of the incidence data. On August 30th, we had an incidence of eighty-three for every hundred and thousand people. September 13th, when the course begins, of thirty-six. Yesterday, October 19th, 20th. During this time, many restrictions have been withdrawn and, in change, in the schools, there has been no change. Updating of measures. Counselor, how many times has the Process talked about the need to update restrictions and reduce restrictions on schools? How many times has your department defended that children and children should be able to alleviate the measures following the pandemic situation? How many times have you decided to update this protocol to give an answer and that the restrictions on the schools fit the restrictions outside the schools? Counselor, why the change in this protocol?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.3.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.4.0	Hello, good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... thank you, MP. Well, I don't share the adult-centric view of what he's done to the one he's passed us to the schools. We have placed the infant at the centre of all our decisions. What we have done is guarantee the right to education throughout the past course; with Councillor Bargalló and Councillor Vergés, what we did was: open schools, secure schools, maximum prudence, maximum security and maximum face-to-face. And, therefore, children's rights, right to go to school. I'm gonna be the bosses to do it. Catalonia..., you said: « this is deserved..., this is deserved of all. There has been a collective success, a shared success, and a country success. Merit of all, of all the students, of all the professionals who are dedicated to education, of the families, of the assemblies. It was a merit of all. And we didn't get out. We have held the open and secure schools all the days of the school year, which has not happened in countries like France, Italy, Holland, Denmark, United Kingdom and others. So, what we've always been doing and what we're going to do is adapt health care measures with this look that we've always found with the Department of Health, this educational look, this sensitivity to the infant and the young. And, therefore, we are adapting and we have always adapted the measurements depending on the timing of the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.5.0	Thank you very much. To answer the question, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.6.0	Counselor, I've given him evidence that the pandemic situation is not now the same as when the protocol is approved and when the school year begins. And it's that we're living absolutely absurd situations. They're still moving on in and out because there's no accumulation of families, but a hundred and a thousand people in Camp Nou are watching a football game for an hour and a half. The fonts of the sealed schools; the fonts of the square, open. At school parties you can not bring food or drink; picnics to the terraces, yes. Children and children cannot rent their teeth; schools that still do not let fathers and mothers pass with normality. Counselor, children and children need to pass the mask, as at least, to the outside, already. Because if you can play in the park without a mask, why can't you do it to the school floor? Counselor, do the work and get the children paid for their inability to update the measures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.7.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.8.0	Well, so he's put two examples that don't fit what's going on. Esglaonades entrances and exits is a decision of the educational centers that, depending on their organization may decide to do them, they may decide not to do them. For what he does when he eats the parties, we just send a castanyada protocol, where we update, and he can bring food. Therefore, we are going to adapt all these measures. In fact, in view of this school year we have adapted very important measures for the educational projects of the centres, such as entry into families and extra-curricular activities. For what she does to the mask, this is an important issue. This is a measure... it's a health decision, it's not an organizational decision. And, therefore, with the Health Department... it's a decision to make the Health Department. We, like the Department of Education, are obviously the first day we can pull the mask, but we won't do it before we can do it, or after we can do it. We need a drag on the mask, that's right. We need to drag the mask on to see the caresses, to share the smiles and why we'll be doing very well at the emotional level. Therefore, with this sensitivity and educational look, when from the Department of Health we are told that we can remove the masks by epidemiological motius, we will remove them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.9.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the organizational policies of the time of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, in order to advance in rights and in gender equality. [[Ask the Government about the organization policies of the time of the Department of Equality and Feminisms to advance in rights and gender equality]] [[310-00104/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.10.0	Good morning, everybody. She will advise, the Catalan women are the most stressed in all of Europe and we occupy the privileged five place in the same race worldwide. They are data from the Català de les Dones Institute, collected from various studies, which should bring us to many reflections. It is practically two centuries ago that the women incorporated us into the product labour market, that which is outside the home and which was associated with economic remuneration and rights, but as we entered the product labour market, in parallel, there was no decrease in the reproduction work. That is to say, the one who has to deal with the cures and who, mostly, in a very high proportion, falls into the spaces of the women. Only a given to hear the magnitude of what we are talking about: 93 per cent of the excesses for themes of cures we ask for the gifts. Get up in the morning, prepare changes, motxillas, shakes, bring the ravine to school, put the renter, extend it, control what's in the fridge, think and manage the logistics of the extra-schools; go to the parents' house, who are already great, to see that they won't convince anything, that they get the medication they were playing; go to paid work after having done the marathon practically and perform like the one that more, it wasn't that this was seen as a sign of weakness or exhaustion, because we already have enough glass suspense. Take a moment on the sofa, at eleven o'clock in the night, without having devoted a single minute to themselves, to ourselves. This is the reality of many, of very many women in this country, without oblivion that there are still many others in situations of more vulnerability: jobs of the world without contract, beyond the submerged economy to which this law of foreign affairs so unfairly takes you; slave labors and, above all, without being able to externalize the healing tasks that we can externalize the most privileged. Go on, ladies who after fourteen hours of poorly paid work, when they arrive home they must also take care of their own. I'm not finding out anything again, I don't know any person, any woman who can be listening to us. We are therefore concerned and concerned about the actions that have taken place since the Department of Equality and Feminism in order to rethink the uses of time and encourage co-responsibility in healing tasks and improve vital reconciliation. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.11.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.12.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This Parliament more than a decade ago deals with the policies of reorganisation of time with various resolutions, which have affected the reconciliation of work and family and also from the perspective of the social and production model. And the government has also done so, with the adoption of plans such as the pact of time, the future plan better, driven by the Council Advisor for the Hourly Reform and with the objective set in 2025 to consolidate the time factor as a factor of freedom, fairness and welfare in a concrete horizon, which was the objective 2025. So 2025 is here, this legislature, a legislature where everyone has after teletreball is not a conciliation measure, when access to public services is limited, and when digital disconnection is not ensured. In fact, in the case of many people – especially women, as you pointed out – the poor of time has still made it worse for all this load of domestic work and cures that society still imposes on women. For this reason, you have not felt that you are reconstructing the status that without more and, therefore, in the march of this feminist transformation that the Government is setting, we take the right to time as a right of citizenship. A right that means time for culture, time for sport, time for personal relationships, to take care of oneself, for the social and political participation that strengthens the country. For this reason, we will develop a national strategy of co-responsibility, re-evaluation of the cures and time to live that strengthens and connects the local initiatives already developed, such as the pacts of time, that is the result of an intersectoral and interdepartmental work in the framework of the Catalonian Labour Relations Council and beyond. And that I joined the country with international initiatives. That's why, like Govern, we're part of Time Use Week's engine group, which starts next week and will close on the 29th, with the signature of the Barcelona declaration by the president. What's the big deal? This inter-departmental coordination to synchronize all times, a creation of a Catalan network of municipalities, businesses and entities, the incorporation of the gender perspective into everything you have to see with teletreball and, because this right is feasible, add another right, which is the right to cure, with some actions that have already begun to be implemented, such as gratuity... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the Councillor of Equality and Feminism, and she continued to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.13.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Asks the Government to answer orally in the plenary on measures to tackle the youth's work environment and precariousness]] [[310-00105/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on measures to address the youth's work environment and precariousness. Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Republican Esquerra, Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.14.0	Good morning, Counselor Torrent. The youth at this hour at 33,5_per_cent, according to the Idescat, is one of the most painful massacres in our country. In fact, it doubles the rate of twilight with respect to people older than twenty-nine years. And of these, only 14,2_per_cent have some type of subsidy or economic benefit, much under the percentage of people in the age of twenty-nine. Not because I need less, but because they're more expelled. In the end and in the end, we have also seen the consequences of the pandemic, which have more severely affected young people. What we have seen is that they have left to the discovery a structural precariousness that was already, in the form of temporality, under low, unremunerated practices and a precariousness from which it is practically impossible to get out. This therefore affects all aspects of young people's lives. This explains the low rate of emancipation, which has reached the lowest historical levels in the last quarter or the hard growing problems of mental and emotional salvation. A precariousness, as I said, structural. And it's that the Catalan countries don't have a set of working relationships like that, we follow under the effect of anti-social labor reforms that despite promises of diumenge, the diluns still work fully. We still do not have the capacity to implement a minimum wage, appropriate to the cost of living of our country. We will only deal with structural changes, we are aware – and the independenceists, more than anyone – only a Catalan republic will be able to give opportunities to all its children. This project of hope, however, is explained by whether we use now, here, without delay, all the tools we have in the abst to attend to the youth urgency, the urgency of youth precariousness. Because young people don't have to wait, we don't have to wait. Our lives have passed away. For all this, counselor, can you explain to us what are the measures that are in line with the anti-juvenile action plan that the Republican government has promoted and how many young people expect to benefit from it? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.15.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.16.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. You've done a very accurate analysis, haven't you? , the employment situation of young people in this country and the structural causes that follow beyond the conjunctural effects of the pandemic situation. What do we do? So, in the framework of which historically is the largest scale of unemployment in active employment policies, which mobilizes EUR 917_million, we have foreseen a follow-up of measures and actions that are directly going to attack youth, assumed with EUR 216_million; a great reversal. An inversion that, on the other hand, has a huge return, because behind the story of every young person who succeeds in getting into the world of work, who is able to find a decent job place, there is a story of individual success, obviously, but also collective, community, because it is not only better the business fabric of the country, but it is, in short, better the joint venture of society. So, we've deployed, we're going to deploy these proposals, these concrete measures with different programs, the most relevant of which is probably helping to contract under thirty years of age. That is to say, we will subsidize the hiring of young people under thirty years of age by businesses, by autonomies or by associated labor cooperatives. And this we will implement with 125_million euros, half of which will go to practical contracts for those young formats and the other half to young contracts that cannot enter into a practical contract. Anyway, obviously, as you said, this is a pending debt, it's a pending debt with ourselves. It has an obvious generational character and a country that bets on young people's employment is a more just country and it is a country that takes advantage of all its energy and all its talent and we want to do it with this platform of active employment policies, which is the most important of the history of this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.17.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on measures to promote co-education. [[Asks the Government about measures to promote co-education]] [[310-00106/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Meritxell Serret, Member of the Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we are many celebrating the recent announcement by the Government that the next course 2022-2023 will not renew the concerts to the educational center that secretes by sex. A measure that will affect the child, secondary and post-compulsory stages of centres with differentiated education and a measure that responds to the commitments made in the pact against segregation, fruit, this, of great consensus. So, this is a long-awaited, long-harvested measure for the company's joint venture. In fact, at the latest of the CEO's question, in which he asked about this question in 2018, 85.1_percent of the respondents disagreed that the Government publicly funded private schools that secrete the student by sex. From the Republican Left we are well aware that it has not been easy. Fighting against all kinds of segregation within the Catalan education system has been and is a long demand for left-wing republicanism, which has often been met with a state against it, with a LEC that was not enough to renew the primary concerts, a LOMCE that did not make it possible either. Now, thanks also to the good work and great work of Esquerra's companies in the Congress and the Senate to improve the LOMLOE, we have been able to take a step. This measure, however, notes once again that we need political sovereignty with all resources, with all the skills to provide us with a public school, more equitable, which effectively contributes to social cohesion and equal opportunities for everyone. A democratic, social, feminist, green and Catalan school; without asking permission or relying on higher legislation. Counselor, we cannot and do not want to finance with public money those elite schools which, for a reason, separate from the classrooms and which, at the same time, perpetuate social differences. It is 15_million euros that we can allocate to other parties that promote the values that represent the vast majority of the citizenry and that actually contribute to equality. In short, we will continue to work and will always have all the support of the Republican Esquerra Group to work for an educational model that also defended the great teacher Francesc Ferrer and Guardia. That model in which the children of one and the other sex have an identical education, which in a way seems to develop intelligence, purify the... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.19.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]] To answer the word, Mr. Josep González Cambray, Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.20.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Well, you explained it very well. What the government did was last week we decided not to renew the concerts of educational centers that secrete by sex, of educational centers that secrete by gender. In the 21st century there can be no classrooms in the country that separate children and children. We will not allow any form of discrimination to our schools, our institutes and our educational centres. And you explained it very well. We've tried it some other time, and as long as we can. We'll keep trying. With what one always believes, we must never stop defending him. We'd tried before, but we'd run into the Spanish courts, and we'd run into legislation that didn't give this mark. Now we have a different situation, which is that LOMLOE is directly, explicitly telling us that they can't agree or that they won't agree or that we have this coverage so that we don't agree on these centers that separate by sex. And listen, life is mixed. We believe in coeducation. We are advancing firmly in many policies with the new council of Equality and Feminisms. We believe each other. There are scientific evidences, there are many scientific studies that tell us that separating children and children by classrooms increases stereotypes, legitimizes sexism and strengthens roles. And that's not what we make up, there's a lot of evidence that gives us this contrast that it's not really a good educational practice, it's a discriminatory practice. And, therefore, our model, as it cannot be in any other way, will be, it will always be a model of respecting differences as well as resolutely fighting inequalities. And you said, let's move forward and move forward as if we were going to a more democratic, social, green, feminist and Catalan school. Not a public European sun to the schools that separate children and children from the classrooms. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.21.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the establishment of schools. [[Ask the Government about the settlement of the schools]] [[310-00109/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.22.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Councillor of Education, what plans do you have to protect children at school and effectively prevent school placements?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.23.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep González Cambray, Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.24.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. From the Department of Education, fighting inequality, fighting any type of rape in classrooms and educational centers and fighting any type of settlement is one of our priorities. And what we have done, precisely, as one of our priorities, when you have a priority to do is act. When you have a priority you have to make things happen and you have to move on. And so, what we've done is put a lot of emphasis on detecting all possible cases and, so, we've created a rape support unit, which is what we do, we're dedicated to a team, and we're acting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.25.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.26.0	Well, it looks like it was yesterday when Inés Arrimadas showed the Congress of Deputies the picture of this girl [[the speaker shows a photograph]] , by Kira López. I think you all know, because you've all received a letter like this [[the speaker shows a card]] , that Kira López committed suicide last May. He jumped off the roof of his house one morning instead of going to school. I was only 15 years old. Kira's parents have sought legal aid, because they are convinced that her daughter was the victim of some kind of alleged school harassment and because they believe that the center where she was studying, Pare Manyanet – which I know is being audited right now by her department – is not looking after them as it should. They also accuse politicians – that is, all of you, all of us – of not doing what we should do, of not taking our own promises seriously, the agreements adopted – not doing so much in this chamber – to fight bullying, that silent murderer. And, with the mental health emergency after the covid, more murderous and quieter. I don't know who pushed Kira to death. Until the Mossos complete their investigation, we cannot give anything in fact, but they will understand that, as a deputy – it is more, as the mother of another teenager who is right now Kira's exact age when she died and who has also gone psychologically very fragile out of confinement –, I must say that I am not worth it in any way with this staying like this, with which we never know what happened to Kira or other children who committed suicide or who have verbalized their intention to do what and who are currently under study by the Association No to School Harassment. He said it's true, there's an audit, why external? Why does the Administration not act before and do so after? In February 2020, this Parliament approved, at the request of Citizens, a motion, Motion 153 of the last legislature, inspired precisely by the decalogue of the Association No to School Harassment. It took a lot of effort to reconcile that program of minimums in defense of people's lives, prioritizing that in the first place and also the good name of the schools, which cannot be damaged forever their reputation if these investigations are false, but for what good it is to make that effort if everything is carried away by the wind... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.27.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.28.0	Congresswoman, a case like this that you raise is a fraction of the entire society. It's a fraction of the whole society. And I found myself with Kira's parents. I found myself there. We've been talking, we've been talking about everything they considered opportune. What we've done is act – what I gave before – to Father Manyanet. What we've done is, for a band, an external audit, from the Department of Education, with an external entity. At the same time, however, we have also made an internal plan of action, forming a working group, from the municipal level, in the field of educational inspection, with educational services and with the educational centre to review all the protocols that this educational centre has. What we do, as it can't be any other way, is act from the very first moment we have the news, and we also did it with Father Manyanet. In parallel, this is also a case that is in the hands of the Mosses. There's a series of complaints and this is in the hands of the Mossos. And what I can say to you is that, with absolute firmness, with absolute conviction, we will continue to apply and improve, day after day, the plan of action against any type of rape. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.29.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plethora on the invisible collections in democratic memory policies. [[Ask the Government about the invisible collections in democratic memory policies]] [[310-00100/13]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Josep Rius.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.30.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, his department ages for the preservation and dissemination of the memory of a particularly important period of our history, which goes from the proclamation of the Republic, of the Second Republic, the year 1931 until the Transition, placing a special emphasis on all that makes reference to the Civil War, its causes and its consequences and, above all, for which it makes reference to repression, exile and deportation of so many people from our country. And also to the construction and continuation of resistance against the Franco dictatorship in the political, social and cultural fields. In your appearance to the Commission of Justice, you have already expressed your commitment and that of your team to enhance memory policies, giving them new tools and new formats, new ways to reach society and, especially, young people. Recently, we were going to be network connoisseurs at the direction of the Democratic Memorial. We wish Mr. Villatoro much luck and uncertainty as he is responsible for leading the agency responsible for deploying the government's public policies aimed at recovery, commemoration and the promotion of democratic memory. We see, therefore, that the legislature has begun giving an impetus to the visibility of the policies of memory, and good that it does us. Because, unfortunately, a lot of this memory is still present. The sona repressed it? Do they sound like exile? Do they also sound like victims because of ideological reasons? Or the intention to eliminate Catalan language and culture? How long, honourable Members, in this post-familiarism that we are painting many [[remorse of the voice]] And that some of them are either material authors or accomplices and they perpetuate it! For this reason, an important function of politics is to create collective memory, because it is through collective memory that the group has identity and transmission from generation to generation. As a president of this same chamber has on occasion expressed, a country is a well-made generational replete. And it is precisely this well-made generational replete and this collective memory that has to include and appeal to all the collections that suffered from the postwar period; to all. Counsel, what do you think from the department to make the collections visible – often invisible – in democratic memory policies? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.31.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.32.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Mr Rius, thank you for the question and indeed the collective memory is formed by individual memories, by individual experiences and experiences which often converge on the same thread, which is por, which is repression, but which is often bitter of hope. From the department, we want to value the record and recognition to these individual experiences such as a name and surname repair menu. And it is also a way, this record, of being able to preserve us from totalitarianism, which, as you say, today we are still living. We're following repression and exile. Therefore, we do not have it so far and it is convenient to support the policies of memory because it is not repeated again. That's why, to the collectible, often invisible, we want to give the view and visibility. We are talking, for example, about women. The women have often been the great oblivions of the memory policies, though they, from the point of view of the collection or from the point of view of the individual, were present: there was already the drawing of the brigadeists, who found themselves as their own menisten because of the fact of being women; as the nurses of the front; as well as the women who remained at home caring for children, often alone, who pulled through the factories they were dressed in war – so Sabadell and this I can explain well – or so many women who, despite everything, pulled forward and today had a little recognizance. We want to put this in value. Or we also want to value the collections of people who came with immigration, the most important democratic movements in our country and who, moreover, help explain the country we have today. And it is necessary to recover these memories, because they are living memories, but it is urgent to collect. It is urgent to find out which were those experiences, which were also those forms of collective organization, which allowed the fight against fascism and repression in all its forms. And what we also want is for these people to have their recognition as builders of Catalonia that we have today. Because a country that honors the people who build it, the people who fight for its progress from invisibility, is a country that does well the generational replete and is a country worthy of trust. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.33.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the programme of emotional well-being and community greeting. [[Ask the Government about the program of emotional well-being and community salutation]] [[310-00101/13]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Titon Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.34.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, one of the evidences that left us this pandemic of covid-19, a pandemic that still today, even though we are normalizing the situation, we have not overcome it, and, in fact, an example is this mask that we still have to wear, even though we have already recovered the complete outburst in this hemisphere... So I say: one of the evidences that left us this pandemic is, also, the increase in mental health problems and the difficulties in the emotional state of our people, our citizenship. This may have been due to the issue of our own confinement, but also the pores and uncertainties that have caused us to become ill, those sorrows that have not been done or that have been wronged before the loss of loved or clean people, either because of the cove-19 or during the cove-19 pandemic, but also affecting the most vulnerable groups, such as the great people who see sun or can be the people who have suffered in their own skin, the problems of economic crisis or the problems that have brought us to this pandemic. In some cases, this emotional distress situation may lead to..., not deliberately, but it does lead to an increase in medicalization in these situations. We know that this is a priority for the government and its council, as it is for this Parliament, and that, in fact, we will start a study commission on all the mental health problems and addictions that affect the population. Doing a thing of one month you yourself presented a plan to prevent suicide in Catalonia and also a few days ago presented this program of emotional well-being and community health in primary care; a program that you want to give the tools that the primary care needs to give this holistic attention to the population that you reach, when faced, for example, no longer only with their usual malalty situations that you may need the primary care, right? , to access primary care, but also to all this emotional distress or mental health problems that can also occur and that the first door that detects them is precisely primary care. And it is for this reason, counselor, that we would like to know who are the most concrete features of this program, such as development, in what terms and with what professional. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.35.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.36.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Laïlla. MPs and MPs... you have commented very well on the reasons, the causes of this increase in the emotional discomfort that the pandemic has also brought us, also in the groups that have been affected with the most intensity. And he also commented on another thing that is important: that this is a priority of the department and, in fact, one of the master lines that I introduced to the month of July to follow during this legislature, in which this program of emotional well-being was already precisely mentioned. And, as you said very well, it is a priority of the government and of this own Parliament. In this sense, we have already started the program with the incorporation of different profiles, but mainly they are profiles of the field of psychology, that what is important to highlight is that these people will not do direct clinic. No clinical fan, no direct attention on primary care teams. They are people on the team, on the primary care team, but what they will do above all is the function of prevention and promotion of salvation. Prevention and promotion working a lot of rape with infirmary, which is which, usually, therefore, carries the burden of these tasks in the field of primary care teams, and working in all community areas: at school, through the "Health and School" program; with social rights, through..., also with residences, because also the great people and loneliness is one of the key factors in this sense, and obviously with the local world and all the fabric that we can find in the community. The important thing here is this detection, that if at some point there is a sign of pathology it is possible to return to the appropriate primary care team, that the primary care team can treat, and if at some point, therefore, it is thought that the intervention and performance of the most specialized teams, that can be sent to the mental health centers or adults or children and young people, is necessary. We have already started the calendar with the incorporation of forty-five professionals, who are already working. At this quarter's length we'll incorporate one hundred and fifty people; we'll evaluate and, if it's okay, because we think it's going to be okay, we'll just complete these 380 teams that we have in primary care. For those we have started, they are those who have a lower socioeconomic index and, therefore, these are the first ones we have started working with. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.37.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on railway infrastructure policies. [[Ask the Government about railway infrastructure policies]] [[310-00102/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.38.0	Thank you, President. Vice President Puigneró, in this today's control session we want to talk again about the railway infrastructure of Catalonia. Public transport and, in concrete terms, rail transport, which transports the most citizens, because of its capacity, is one of the fundamental pillars for fighting the climate change, to reduce the mobility of vehicles and thus achieve better environmental conditions. At the same time, it is necessary to connect the entire territory from north to south and east to west with equal opportunities. A few weeks ago, we had a break from the Renfe Roller Service that left a lot of users in the walkers of the stations. We did not complete the minimum services and we suffered first-hand delays, cancellations, with days that were suppressed around fifty per cent of the services. As you know, we can't afford services that don't work, but we deserve them quality, punctual and efficient. In parallel with all this, since Madrid, there has been a storm of millions for rolling in the framework of the general budgets, but we have already suffered first hand from these announcements and, later, the failure to execute the investments. It may be recalled that the State has only executed fifteen per cent of the €4,000 million envisaged in the 2008-2015 roundabout and has not built a new mile from 1975. We don't want any more incompliments. We want solutions and we want quality rail services. We know that yesterday the government announced that I take over Lleida's rolling stock service, which will operate General Railways. A first step has been taken and we congratulate him, because we are convinced that this will lead to many better management. But not at all, we need all of our country's railway network to work and work well, to the Lands of the Jews, to the lands of the Girona, to the Pyrenees, to the Lleidatans, to the Tarragonans, to the Metropolitans, to the whole country. I am convinced that if the Generalitat managed regional and rolling stations throughout Catalonia we could improve, for example, the railway services and the frequencies of R15 or R16, which pass through my lands, those of the Jews. The Catalans, all of us, as we think, deserve a good functioning of the railway network that counts with many passengers who make their daily paths to go to university, to work or to go anywhere to do our day-to-day. For this reason, Vice-President, from Junts to Catalunya we want to ask him what is the government's understanding of what it does to railway infrastructure in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.39.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. MPs... Miri, I don't know how many times – and I've already lost count – we've dealt with this issue, not just in this Parliament, but at the level of the communication media. How many years ago, we said, therefore, that we are discussing ourselves in this eternal debate of rollers. As well as how many Spanish government presidents have promised us this famous rain of millions in the field of infrastructure in Catalonia. I don't know anymore... and I want to believe that it's not a matter of incapacity or incompetence, so it has to be a matter of political unwillingness. And I think that's why we want to take this decision. The Government of Catalonia wants to take over..., since it does not want to make the State, we want to take on the challenge of managing the rolling stock in Catalonia. Let the rollers be eaten, as it seems that on the part of the State there is no such will. And so we did. We've started making Lleida now. We have decided that Lleida's rolling stock is not managed by Renfe, but by the Railway Operator of the Government of Catalonia, with the objective, precisely, of improving this service in its own years. This is a topic that you ask all of us. And so, let's just do it today and direct us to all the political groups that, we vote for, we vote for, we vote for the political groups in the Madrid press, we all commit ourselves to this being a very short-lived reality. And that, therefore, can be managed from Catalonia. We do not link it directly to the assumptions or general assumptions of the State, make it a political will of all folds. Miri, the chronic deficit that we suffer and which is suffering from Catalonia in this matter – today there is a Catalan newspaper that publishes the figures – of the total assumed in the past... – and are data of the Ministry of Transport of the State – from the period 2001-2018 only seventy-three_per_cent of investments in investment in Catalonia have been executed. But it's that only twenty-i-five_per_cent have been executed in rolls. Therefore, this is a drama that we cannot continue to maintain. Therefore, the place where, somehow or otherwise, we do not make the citizens of Catalonia suffer more than every day they have to go to work. This is an instrument for fighting climate change, but it is also an indispensable instrument to guarantee a very important social right in the 21st century, which is the right to mobility. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.41.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on municipal social services. [[Ask the Government about municipal social services]] [[310-00111/13]] The question is posed, on behalf of the Socialist and Units for Avançar Parliamentary Group, by Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.42.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor Cervera, can you compromise that the 1st generation of this year the Government will have approved a social service program contract from which thousands of workers and most of the policies of protection and support of the most vulnerable people in our country?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.43.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.44.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs. Mr. Moreno, we're working from the Department, as we've already commented on other times, so that the gener can have this program that he needs to give to all the municipalities of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.45.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.46.0	He will advise, what we know is that there are only a few more than two months left to end the year, and at this point the negotiation is not happening with the supra-municipal entities, with the municipal entities, which are the key to this negotiation. We are more in favour of a third extension of the programme contract – a third extension of the programme contract – than of a new programme contract. At this time there is no concrete schedule of the contract, surely the most important of its advice not so much for the import, 250_million euros, which is important, but because it is the phonetic gear because the social services work in our country, because the people feel protected at a time when they need social services more than ever. Therefore, she advises, we ask her for more than good intentions, that political clarifications want to leave the program contract. It overwhelms the intention of your department that the policies of inclusion, of LGTBI, of dona, depart from the program contract. We don't know if you will finally see an increase in the hour of home service; we don't know if you can afford the professionals you put in the system yourself, do you? Therefore, counsel, transparency. Let's tell the joints what their schedule is to put this program on the market – you don't know; we have many weeks of communications from different joints that don't know who the schedule is – because of the peace of the thousands of professionals who fall on it. Also for the tranquillity of the respective joints and for the tranquillity of the joint of the citizenry. We need to increase the funding of the program contract. You, therefore, with your doubts, and the Counsellor Giró, with his slowness, may effect that the 1st generation so we will not have a social service program in Catalonia. We expect faster on this topic than you have, for example, to set aside the social security plan, which they said would be imminent and that, after five months, we have not yet seen. She will advise, ask you, please, quickly, ask you to make sure that the social protection in Catalonia depends on the social services of our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.47.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Moreno, you know perfectly well that I share your words; that the department's will is to be able to approve this program contract. Just a few dice. It is true that the program contract we have at these times is from 2016 to 2019, and the assumption of these annualities was almost 1,000_million euros. Two extensions were subsequently made – therefore, we are in favour – of more than EUR 500 million, and then approved various additions of EUR 53 million. Therefore, the Department of Social Rights and the previous departments were completely compromised in this contribution to the municipality. We know that the basic skills of social services are municipal, and these have to be done precisely with the contribution of the Generality. More than sixty per cent of us would have to bring it to us, the Generality, in basic services, delegated services and various services. We are compromised, we are working from day one – and you know that we are working from day one – with entities; we have met with municipal entities and are working at the technical level. It's not a simple theme – you know it–; it's a presuppositional theme. But it's not just a presuppositional issue of the Generality's finances. You know that the social services, like the health services, are underfunded, we are underfunded. If we had the money that comes to us and that comes back to us as citizens, we certainly wouldn't have these difficulties, and you know it. You know that this is one of the biggest problems to end up agreeing with municipal authorities. Therefore, I am convinced that we will not agree on topics of dependence; convinced, even though I think it is not impossible. But, please, help us to keep the necessary tickets in order to meet the needs of our citizens. We, as the department, commit ourselves to agile as much as possible... as we are doing, we are working tirelessly to be able to approve this program contract. We are aware of this double extension of these years, and therefore we hope that the principles of generation can be signed these agreements. It's a hundred_is convenient with municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants or with local councils. You know it's not an easy task. The needs of the citizens of all of Catalonia are different, and therefore the arrangements are also different. And with regard to what he was commenting on feminism, he also knows that the department has broken down and there are some skills that are no longer social rights department competencies. And he tells us, and he always remembers... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the trade situation]] [[310-00112/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in plenary on the situation of trade. The question is posed by Mr. Juan Luis Ruiz, of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.50.0	Thank you, President. The trade, with greater or lesser measure, so it's gone, isn't it? , the consequences of the covid, even though, surely, before the pandemic therefore already had important challenges to deal with and surely the pandemic has accelerated. That is why, Counselor, we want to know what the government's understanding of the situation in our country is about the commercial sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.51.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.52.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, honourable Member, the trade sector has suffered, and many, the consequences of the pandemic situation of the health crisis. In fact, we estimate that the impact was about 9,000_million euros, huh? Obviously, this is not homogeneous, depending on the areas, depending on the dependence or not on tourism. And, obviously, it's not the same in all sectors either: it's not the same food as it's left. What have we done? So what we have done with the rest of the economic sectors and segments of our population that have suffered most from this situation, that is to deploy a package of very important social aid measures – in fact, the territory of the State that has offered the most direct aid to the most affected sectors – and, in the concrete case of trade and restoration, these aids amount to 400_million euros, which, of course, are palliative cures, huh? What they're trying to do is get over the situation. And, as you said – very well – there are more questions of foundations, more structural ones, that we need to be able to tackle, because there are times that come from before the pandemic situation and that, in any case, this period has intensified. In any case, of course, honourable Member, we will continue to help the sector to recover in order to overcome the situation. But, obviously, our mission is to go to those foundations that the sector has and that are essential to address if we want to maintain the Catalan model of trade, which is our priority.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.53.0	To answer the question, has the word Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.54.0	Thank you, Counselor. You said that, didn't you? , trade is one of the most important traditional sectors of our country, it represents around the seven_per_cent of our GDP, right? And I also said, during the first wave of the pandemic the same sector therefore estimated some losses of the seventy per cent, approximately, especially in urban trade. It's also true, isn't it? , that in others, such as food, so the impact has been much smaller, and even in some cases they have seen increases in their sales, haven't they? Unfortunately, for this reason, some of the commercial establishments have had to shut down, especially the establishments, right? , of proximity and of bars. Therefore, they call down measures, urgent measures to put our most traditional commercial sector into value. Call nine helpers, lines of help, Mr. Counsellor – here I come back to remember the 3,154_millions of euros that come from the Government of Spain. But, as I said, there are also actions and projects to strengthen the entire value chain represented by the commercial sector in Catalonia. I, from the sector, therefore, have proposals, do they not? But we also have to face these more strategic, more structural challenges, especially in terms of digitalisation and the application of the new technologies. Consumer habits are shifting to exponential speed, and it will certainly also be hot to talk about business times before this new demand profile. Therefore, as many administrations help and facilitate this transition to our more traditional sectors. Counselor, we agree on this: there are many backs, and now since the government, but also since this own Parliament, we are still able to accompany the sector. Counts – accounts – with us to work there and to ensure a better future for a sector as traditional as the commercial sector in our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.55.0	To answer the word has the company and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.56.0	Congressman, he was talking about the sector's challenges ahead. What are we detecting? A change of habits, as you also mentioned, in two lines, which may seem contradictory, but which coexist. On the one hand, this proximity between the consumer is valued by the merchant, therefore, the proximity trade. And, on the other hand, there was the exponential increase in e-commerce. These are two realities before which we must act to defend the Catalan model of trade, which involves territorial cohesion, urban cohesion and social cohesion. What line? So, from a band, betting to deploy the APEUs. Obviously, we have lines of help in this sense and a technical office to advise the territorial organizations so that we can use this tool that we believe is basic for the dynamism of trade to many of our cities and municipalities. And, for another band, digitalization lines that we have already deployed through the Consortium of Commerce, Crafts and Fashion. Digitization and proximity, e-commerce and APEU help lines, two great lines... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.57.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Some applause.]] Ask the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the Centre de Formació Professional d'Automoció. [[Ask the Government about the Centre de Formation Professionnel d'Automoció]] [[310-00113/13]] The question is raised, on behalf of the Socialist and Units for Avançar Parliamentary Group, by Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Torrent. These days we have read a series of news related to the Martorell Automotive Training Centre. Three days ago we read that there were two entities they wanted, they were interested in showing up to run this center. One was Eurecat, and the second was the Foundation for Industry. In fact, it seemed that the latter had already formalized the step to make it clear, which obviously made us happy from this group. But just yesterday we knew that the Foundation for Industry had not presented itself and that it did not intend to do so and that Eurecat could not choose, because the tender did not contemplate that it is present in foundations. Counselor, respect these two news reports, can you say that the center of Martorell will be operating the coming course? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.59.0	To answer the word, Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.60.0	Thank you, Congressman. The Martorell Automotive Training Centre will be a spearhead, the spearhead, in fact, of the transformation of the automotive industry in our country. It will be a centre of reference in the field of vocational training and continuing training. And, therefore, in the next few months we will see how this is consolidated and how effectively, after so many years, it is an indispensable tool in the transition of a sector that is key to our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.61.0	To answer the question, Mr. Pol Gibert has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.62.0	Counselor, first, has not answered the question. It was a yes or no, basically. But you will understand that, after your words, our group has some suspicion. We are quite heated – we are growing our group and also the automotive sector in general – for the management that their governments have made, not just theirs, but theirs, the former ones, over this centre. Since its creation in 2014 – 2014 – we have seen five SOC directors and four different Treball advisors on this subject. In this period, this Parliament has voted more than a few times to set aside this vocational training centre. At this time, one of the main candidates to manage when this centre was inaugurated did not just resign, but left Catalonia, and this actor is said to be Nissan Motor Iberian. When the construction works were finished, the Government assured that it would have to be a key equipment for the sector and to guarantee the skilled workmanship at short and medium-terms – short and medium-terms. That was 2014 and we're at the end of 2021. Counselor, have you wondered what paper could hold this center at a time like the present, key for the automotive sector? What could we be doing in this center, that could train and recycle fifteen thousand workers in the year? What new opportunities could we be offering the people who lost their jobs to Nissan, Dayco or Bosch, for example? And the most important question for me, counselor: how did we get here? As, after four governments, we continue to paint today to see if this will be a success story or a new fractus. It is a scandal to have invested 18_million euros in public money and to have lost the opportunity to train almost a hundred_ thousand workers during all these years. Counselor, count on this group, as always, to help what you need, but also have very clear and very present that we will not tolerate a new fracturing in this environment. The automotive sector and the workers cannot afford this new luxury. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.63.0	To answer the word has the company and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.64.0	Congressman, I'm sure you already do, but in any case, in case I recommend that you go beyond the news, huh? That I go beyond the information I can read in the paper. What do we have today? Today, the bidding process is open, and until November 4, interested entities have time and opportunity to introduce themselves and sign up 'to want to participate in the process. From here, therefore, concrete proposals must be made. We have put forward a tender that has been the result of contact and discussions with the sector, which has been the result of the participation of the different actors in the automotive industry in our country and the entities that are engaged in vocational training. As a result of this participation, the technical requirements governing the contract have improved, and we have sought to ensure the economic viability of the project. And we're not convinced of that. We are convinced that, as I said to the beginning, the Martorell Auto Training Centre, which is located in an area with a very important part of this industry around it, will be a key piece, as I would say, in a transition process in which we obviously need more instruments, more knowledge of the workers and workers in a sector that, I insist, is key for the country, not only in environmental terms, but not only in terms of climate change, but also in terms of a great list of opportunities at the economic, social and technological levels. We agree that training in this concrete field is fundamental – professional training and continuing training – and it must be a tool for recycling and repositioning workers in this sector, out of the 143,000 Catalans and Catalans who are today dedicated to the automotive sector. I insist, MP: the centre will be a reality and will be a key tool in this sense. And we can talk about it... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.65.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the cancellation of the education concert at the differentiated school. [[Ask the Government about the cancellation of the differentiated school education concert]] [[310-00108/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eva Parera, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.66.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all, good morning, counselor. The question is very simple, we would like to know if it is true that this government intends to revoke and cancel educational concerts at the differentiated school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.67.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.68.0	So the answer is yes. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.69.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.70.0	All right, thank you, counselor. I see you're short because you're not going to give the reasons why they think they're doing this. [[Widow's remorse.]] They have many feelings that remind them that this cannot be done; they have a judgment of the Supreme Court, they have a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, and they will soon have a judgment, hopefully, of the Constitutional Court. You argue... I've heard it, counselor, say, it's that these centers incur discrimination. So no, and the Supreme Court has already made it clear to them that these centers do not incur discrimination, and I remind them that in a state of law that interprets laws it is not you, the government, but it is the courts and it is the courts. It's a P-3 democracy policy, but it looks like you've forgotten it. The rights guaranteed to the Constitution are always above the will of any government, and the triage and freedom to sort the school by the parents is a right guaranteed to our Constitution, and therefore it is a right that you must respect. And it's pretty great for him to think that you, the government, can sort out better than the parents to whom their children should go. Freedom is freedom. Election freedom is election freedom. Parents must be able to sort out the educational center of their children, please them or not please them to you the center. And they haven't – and I haven't felt it in any of the debates they've made – and I don't believe that these centers aren't giving a good educational offer, it's more than just the opposite. Therefore, the decision is purely ideological, it is purely sectarian. And I'll tell you, it's not the centers that discriminate, it's you that discriminate, discriminate the centers and discriminate the families. You are not aware of the evil that this decision can do, not only to the concerted centres that lose these money, which are already underfunded – I remind you: because of your fault – but also to the families, who will suddenly and again find that the collegiate that they have sorted for their children is much more important. But that's the same for you. The question is to make an ideological persecution. Their obligation is to ensure that these centres are well funded. Not these, all the agreed centers are well funded. Put the accounts in order with the education system, put this into the assumptions and let themselves be ideologically persecuted. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.71.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.72.0	Congresswoman Parera, I have two minutes, twenty-eight seconds to argue and motivate. The first thing I want to say to you is that I am surprised that you say that you already know what the Constitutional Court will do. [[Greetings.]] Don't stop surprising us. In any case, they're starting from a false premise here. We, from the Department of Education, from the Government, do not want to eliminate the freedom of choice of families – no one wants to eliminate the freedom of choice of families. What we're saying is, we won't finance money from all over the city, we won't finance public money from schools that separate children and children from the classrooms. And to do that, we have all the legal, political and social support. Legal support – before I mentioned it –; we have a coverage of state legislation, LOMLOE, which says that these types of centres are not to be financed. Political support; this chamber, behind Ple, this chamber, with all votes in favour, bet not to finance the choices that secrete by sex, with all votes in favour less the Spanish right – less PP, VOX and Ciutadans. And we have support and we have social consensus – before Congresswoman Serret commented. The CEO, to the last question, more than eighty-five percent of the citizens said they disagreed with segregation, in financing and in renewing concerts at educational centers that secrete by sex. So, say what they say to you about democracy sometimes... when you play for them, when you don't play for them, they go to court. That's not democracy. We will continue to defend democracy, and we will continue to defend and bet because the educational centers that separate – it is easy to hear – that separate children and children in classrooms do not co-educe, and therefore, not a public euro of finance. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.73.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the audits to the Consortium of Social Services in Barcelona. [[Ask the Government about audits of the Barcelona Consortium of Social Services]] [[310-00110/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Basha Change, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.74.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Cervera, like the president of the Consell de Govern del Consorci de Serveis Socials de Barcelona, can you tell us the percentage of participation of the Generalitat and the annual reversal that the Generalitat makes to the consortium?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.75.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.76.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MPs, yes, as you say... in fact, allow me also to place the MPs, in case you don't know. The Consorci de Serveis Socials is regulated by Decree 113 of the year 2006, and it is precisely to make the Barcelona Municipal Charter complete. And precisely in this decree, which has the statutes of the consortium, it is said that the Generality participates in it with a sixty_per_cent, the Assembly participates in it with a forty_per_cent; the Generality has its presidency, and the assumption of this later year has set of 76_million euros.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.77.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.78.0	Thank you, Counselor. Well, a few months ago, the consortium was forced, in compliment of the law of transparency, to publish the audits of the last years. Here we can see how in the exercises of 2015, 2017 and 2019 it is confirmed that many of the people we work in the field know de facto, that the opacity of contracts between the Administration and the companies managers amass hard irregularities that affect the users of services with children's centers, adapted ambulances, attention to survivors of gender violence, feeding disabled people, cleaning services or day centers management. The irregularities demonstrated for the audits provide for economic deviations in the form of surcharges of EUR 20 million up to contract procedures without competitions or months, and, in fact, without converging shippers before 2014. Therefore, awarded to companies said with Ambulances Tomás, Intress, Fundació FASI or the religious congregation Mothers Desamparadas and San José de la Montaña, among others. They also confirm these audits that the unions in the sector have been reporting for years: that the selection of temporary staff is not done in any case through work grants that guarantee principles of equality, merit, ability and publicity, but a little more, he said. The EUR 20_million overruns at the head of command for years give proof of the contractual relationship of fixed work, while – let's remember – most of the workers of the services are in interim, and many of them with temporaryity in abus, and therefore in fraud of law. A look at these audits and your statements of respect, and given the responsibility that the Generality has for the high majority percentage in the consortium's governing council, from our parliamentary group we want to know who are the concrete measures that the department has planned... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.79.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer, has the word "Consellera Violant Cervera", of Social Rights.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.80.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, it is true, there are audits, audits of the Union of Accounts, audits also of the General Intervention of the Generality, which have been going since 2014, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, but I also know that there are previous audits of the Delegated Intervention where they show or show some..., you did not say "irregularities, I would not say" some incidents, some of which... And it's true, I mean, the consortium – and I won't deny it – has structural shortcomings that like the department and responsible departments, so we need to look to solve. And of these inferences, in fact, the same General Intervention of the Generality – and I would like to read it textually –, what you say in this report is that "in view of the proposed corrective measures, the timetable and its partial implementation at the date of the issue of this report, this Intervention considers that they have a global value of category zero. I mean that the General Intervention of the Generality, which has been involved in the accounts of the consortium, and I want to remind you that one of the shortcomings is that it does not have a proper intervention and that they have a low level of staff in order to manage these 76_million euros, which does, the General Intervention, is to make interventions afterward, and what does it is also a control that these incidents, therefore, are correct vagina, and many have been resolved, and are in the lives of solving some others, which the General Intervention is about to do. We, as in the department, will be strengthening as much as we can, precisely, these consortia intervention services, so that we cannot find ourselves in the situation where we have so far found ourselves, because we believe that beyond irregularities, there is a lack of administrative support and management among the consortia's own. So, yeah, we'll be in the mountains and we'll try to solve all these issues. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.81.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the choice of education by peers. [[Ask the Government about the choice of education by peers]] [[310-00107/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.82.0	Yeah, good morning. President, thank you. Counselor, how long does the Government intend to prevent parents from choosing their children's education?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.83.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.84.0	Congressman, we've always allowed the election of families and couples, the election... to sort out the school of their children.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.85.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.86.0	Mr Gonzàlez, your Government remains committed to not ensuring that parents choose what they consider best for their children, and I will give you four examples. Freedom to choose school. You set up school places without first consulting the parents; plan on the basis of the demand and not the other way around. Freedom to choose sexual and affective education. We propose the parental PIN so that parents are informed of what sexual and affective matter should be taught in their children's classrooms and can give due consent. Freedom to choose a language model. There are children whose mother tongue is Spanish, and they do not allow them to learn to read and write in Spanish, which is also the language of all Catalans. [[Widow's remorse.]] Freedom to choose an educational model. For example, inclusive education, special education or differentiated education. Precisely, this has been the last liberated attack by his Government and its council: discrimination against schools that differentiate between boys and girls not to renew them the children's concert, high school and post-compulsory stage. Counselor Gonzàlez, freedom passes so that you can choose the educated model pairs. The differentiated is an internationally recognized and highly prestigious educational model, even in England it is practiced in public schools. If you get the concert, they'll actually be elites. And since VOX we regret the suffering of family names, because this decision affects more than 4,000 children. And we denounce that they will lose the battle again, because from VOX we will give the battle here to Parliament, to the streets and to the courts of justice. [[Widow's remorse.]] We already won the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia when you tried to eliminate the concert from the primary stage. And yes, we will win back to the Constitutional Court, and not because we already know it, but because our appeal, the one that filed VOX before the Celáa law, which discriminates against the differentiated, is good. [[relays]] , and so you recognize the constitutional challenge. In front of liberticide and its laughter – of Esquerra and Junts – the defense of freedom, which will always bring VOX forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.87.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.88.0	So, well, you see, your talk of freedom is surreal, huh? - It's surreal. It's... [[Greetings.]] In his intervention he mentioned that six times the word 'courts'. Perhaps it would be good if in his speeches spoken about politics, education... six times the word "courts". You don't like democracy, you don't like democracy. In fact, they don't feel well in democracy. He's not with you. Democracy doesn't go with you. When there's something you don't like, you go to court. [[You want to "obviously.]] They're going to court. [[Rialles.]] "Obviously. Obviously. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.89.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet, and please. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.90.0	It's okay because they think it's the most. That's the problem, the more they believe it. [[Greetings.]] Listen, I'll tell you as many times as I can. Faced with their lack of democracy, they'll stand up to us. Faced with his lack of democracy, I'll be confronted. And we'll defend Republican values. We will defend coeducation and above all, above all, we will always defend democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.91.0	Ask the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on data on citizen security]] [[317-00057/13]] The question is posed by Mr Alejandro Fernández, of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.92.0	Thank you, President. How do you rate the latest data that puts Catalonia at the top of the worst rankings of citizen insecurity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.93.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.94.0	The Government of Catalonia is fully compromised with the guarantee of citizen security and this goes on to provide more human and material resources for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the local police of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.95.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.96.0	Thank you, President. The latest criminal record of the Ministry of the Interior is devastating as far as Catalonia is concerned. Leaders in number of criminal offences in what we have been doing for the year, 176,945 nothing more and nothing less. Leaders in illegal occupation, forty_and_eight_per_cent of all Spain. And, in case this were not much, Barcelona and Prat del Llobregat appear as the two most insecure cities in Spain. Faced with such a panorama, his Home Secretary, Joan Ignasi Elena, of whom I do not discuss goodness, proposes the following, I quote textually: "We will open an active listening process in which all social actors feel involved and involved. Nice, isn't it? Anyway, that organized crime trembles after listening to Councilman Elena. [[Rialles.]] Mr. Aragonès, I don't ask you to make Chuck Norris, it's obvious, but between Chuck Norris and his advisor's cursiladas there should be a healthy intermediate point that I'm going to propose to you. One: without security there is no freedom, and whoever doesn't understand that doesn't understand anything at all. Two: zero tolerance for incisiveness and illegal occupation. Three: respect for all police officers as guarantors of order in democracy, including of course the Mossos d'Esquadra, whom you systematically humiliate by appointing chairmen of the new police model who are called fascists, murderers and torturers. Then you'll be surprised they're protesting against you. And it was precisely for this reason that I wanted to finish my intervention by showing unbridled support to all the police: local police, Mossos d'Esquadra, Guardia Civil and National Police. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.98.0	Look, if alongside Fernández Diaz and the police and Acebes corruption and lies about terrorism, Councilman Elena is a cursi, I'm also sociable. [[Greetings.]] Besides, I think this is what we're supposed to do, because it's a testosterone show that we're supposed to be abandoning, huh? I think the times are different. [[Greetings.]] And then, the support is not reneging, the support is not just staring at a thing that the Councillor of the Interior said. Of course, what you have said has said, but it has also said many other things that you have forgotten, such as that this year there will be four hundred more vehicles for the Squadron Sea and four hundred more coming year; that seven hundred squadron moves have been incorporated into this course and that they will be eight hundred the coming year; that they will work and set aside the new uniformity; that we will go to work to raise the current top of 18,200 squadron moves because we need more effect and because the shortcuts that have been produced in part – thanks in part – to their economic policies and also – and also – to limit the wage mass and the rest rate to 11, 12 revert. Therefore, the support for citizen security is demonstrated and not by the ways in which they try to impute to the summit of the Squad Coast, as you wanted to do, and they came out badly. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.99.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the report of the Circle of Economy that alerts the perill of Catalonia to fall into economic irrelevance]] [[317-00058/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.100.0	Mr President, last week the Cercle d'Economia presented a report in which it explains that to maintain the policies promoted both by you and by Mayor Colau was hanging over Catalonia, and I quote, "a spiral of economic irrelevance of slow but inexorable decadence. How do you view this report?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.102.0	Obviously, everyone is free to express their opinion and so we respect it, but we focus on data and data is that this year Catalonia will be back to an absolute record of exports. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.103.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.104.0	You're the only thing exporting is instability, Mr. President. The circle says in public what everyone recognizes in private: that a change of direction in Catalan policy is needed, that consensus is needed to boost the strategic sectors of our economy, tourism, industry, science, research, innovation, a new energy model, to capture talent in health, in biomedicine, just what we say, by the way, in Ciutadans. And the Cercle d'Economia also warns against the economic decline promoted by the rich of the CUP and the installed of Podemos [[remorse of the voice]] and warns against the extremes as well, Germany, a country of coalitions where an agreement is prepared between Social Democrats, Liberals and Greens. But you remain blind and deaf to the decline of Catalonia and the policies that impoverish Catalans. No one in the Government is watching for projects in the future. You let the CUP charge the airport, the Olympic Winter Games and your investments, the necessary infrastructure for Catalonia. And look, unlike the circle, I do not hotel any hope that you will change course, and I am not as calculating as the PSC, that what you expect is to remove Junts to put themselves with the commons and Republican Left. What I aspire to is to win those from constitutionalism and moderation, and change that harmful government for Catalonia. I therefore appeal to civil society, to take this step initiated by the circle and denounce the situation and promote the change of direction in Catalan society, to Foment, to Pimec, to the independent unions, to the free part that remains in Catalan universities. As a great and perhaps even affectionate journalist of the regime said every day on the radio: « Awake, Catalunya. Wake up, Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.106.0	In front of the propaganda, fets. And another fact: you can complain a lot of the economic policies of the Barcelona City Council, but Mayor Ada Colau was voted by you. Apart from that... [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Apart from that... For this reason, we [[relays]] It's up to you to assume what man does. Apart from that, as I said, Mr. Carrizosa, obviously, with respect to everyone's opinion, but I think we need to focus on what should be the new product model of Catalonia. And the country's product model is to be poured into greater economic diversification and a reindustrialisation that must be green, digital and distributed and that reaches the territory's conjunct. The model of going grew to grow, based on going down real wages in the city and, therefore, in a model of low wages has to be abandoned. Therefore, let us focus on what it touches, which is the process of industrial conversion of the country in important sectors, as previously said the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work. For example, in the automotive sector. And this requires reversal and public leadership; it also needs monitoring in the formation, conversion throughout the energy transformation, for location of the battery plant and also for the conjunction of the value chain. This is also true in the agro-industrial sector, especially in the transformation of the country, which will also have a very important impact on the future. Fem-ho accompanying the digitization of the joint venture of Catalan companies, training, betting for professional training. These are the government's lines of work. We need a much more diversified economy. The previous model we already know where it's going and it's the inertia we have to resist. So, we respect everyone's opinion, we have our project, because this is also a transformational government for an economy that really brings prosperity to everyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.107.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the new model of expansion of the airport of Barcelona - el Prat]] [[317-00060/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.108.0	Thank you. President, a little more than a month ago that the social majority of this country was holding back the expansion of the Prat airport. But, as if this were a Dickens account, Vice President Puignero has reappeared with a new joker's rabbit and is now proposing a new model that would not only affect a protected space like Ricardo, but two: Ricardo and Remolar. And so we want to know, President, do you share this project of expansion of the Prat airport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.110.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, I cannot share what has not been proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.111.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.112.0	It is curious that they are so close to you and you do not know what Vice President Puignero said. [[Rialles.]] In any case, as I've said so many times, planes don't go with cologne, tourists don't come to Catalonia to buy electric boats and green airports – so you say the vice president and expect you to listen to him – they don't exist. And that's why we work to make Catalonia a country of trains. In fact, let's look at the general assumptions of the State; some general assumptions of the State that are the best for Catalonia in a decade, that they have a six_per_cent more investments in infrastructure for Catalonia than the 2021s, which – I want to remind you – their parliamentary group gave it support and they were able to approve. In fact, these assumptions hold 679_million euros for rolling stock, 120_million euros for the Mediterranean Corridor and, moreover, you know – because you know – that 2022 will be the year of budgetary execution agreed in infrastructures in Catalonia. And now we have also listened to Vice-President Puignero saying: "The vote that they vote, all the groups in Madrid must guarantee its execution. "I vote who votes not, because, if we don't have assumptions, little can be done, Vice President. I say to him, President, that if his intention is to make Catalonia a country of trains, he will have us at his side, but we do ask him three things. The first, we have managed to open the negotiation of the rollover to the central government; so now you have to present this rollover plan. Second of all, I'm giving trading support and bringing more to these assumptions, because they're the best in two years, but it can go, as always, more there. And, in the third place, you are also working on the assumptions for Catalonia, and here too, the railway, it has to be made clear that it is a bet for Catalonia. So, what do we ask? Tarragona tram train, Costa Brava tram train, the extension of the metro to the metropolitan area and also the connection of the two railway lines of the Generalitat. And above all, president, I stop trying to dig up a project that's already dead, like the airport expansion and that's more like climate negationists. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.113.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.114.0	Well, since you talked about the government of the state, which approved the DORA that provides for the expansion of Barajas, which, according to your reasoning, will also involve some CO2 emissions, they were you to the Council of Ministers. [[Greetings.]] From here, let's focus... It is to say, focus the efforts where I believe, as the president, that we must focus them. And you said "the country of trains. All right, but we need the presuppositional execution of the investments to be materialized, and we're at extraordinarily low levels this year. And we need compliment guarantees and at these times there are no compliment guarantees. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There aren't any. They're not there. Because at the end that ends up bidding, that ends up controlling the works is, in this sense, the General Administration of the State or its instrumentals and, therefore, at these moments is not guaranteed. Therefore, what the assumptions say is not credible if it was not accompanied by an enforcement guarantee. Don't you? Here – here – Mr. Cid. Here today we announced the assumption of what will be the management of Lleida rollers by Railways of the Generality. Yesterday we also approved a multi-annual spending agreement of EUR 150 million for the train, for all the equipment, for all the suitability of the stations to be run by Lleida. Therefore, EUR 150 million in the next few years, which will obviously already be the first year of this investment. About the only ones..., in the last years, the only railroads or the like that have been driving to Catalonia, the only meters or kilometers that have been made of the most, have been the metro, also financed by the Generalitat de Catalunya or Ferrocarrils of the Generalitat de Catalunya, or the tram. Therefore, there is a great deal of work to be done in the field of rolling stock. If you establish an enforcement guarantee, I think it will be a step forward in this respect. But for the time being, what we see is that every year in the assumptions there are some figures that leave them on paper, because there is no political will to execute them as they play. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.115.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the compliment of the government agreement on the withdrawal of private accusations against demonstrators and the protocol for the protection of vulnerable families]] [[317-00063/13]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier Pellicer, Member of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.116.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. President Aragonès, two questions relating to the commitments for which you were invested as president with the votes of the CUP. First: what actions have they carried out, now that they have the competence of the Presidency, to give compliment to the investment agreement respecting the withdrawal of particular accusations against demonstrators? And second: what actions have been taken by the government to halt the public denunciations of vulnerable families, as we agreed?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.118.0	Thank you very much, President. The honourable Member respects the first question, therefore, not only from the assumption on the part of the Central Judicial Office as it is with the rest of the public workers of his defence, so, in a judicial proceeding or to defend his rights in the framework of a judicial proceeding, has always acted situating it since proportionality..., all the petitions that there are. And, therefore, this will continue to be done in this sense. And secondly, in the second question, therefore, there is also work and at these times there has been agreement on a proposal for a protocol that requires..., and it is on the roof of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that I accept it or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.119.0	To answer the question, Mr. Xavier Pellicer has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.120.0	Well, Mr President, on the particular charges against demonstrators, let's go to a concrete case. On the 30th generation of 2018, in the wake of the failed investiture of President Puigdemont, twelve people were detained – they went all the way to supporting these twelve people and thousands of people retaliated. In this case, the Generalitat was like a private accusation against eleven of them. In one case the year 2020 has withdrawn, which we celebrate. Unfortunately – unfortunately – the next November 25th set of these people will be judged with petitions for up to four years of detention by prosecution and two years – two years – of petition by the Government of the Generality, and for both the legal cabinet and you. With regard to the particular accusations against demonstrators, our position is very clear and we have reiterated it: the Generality does not have to accuse demonstrators. In any case, what we can't hear is how it can be that at this hour, despite the agreement of the least we have reached for his investiture, his government continues to ask these seven people two years of prison, concretely fifteen months for public disorder and nine months for speed to authority. For what he does to the other question, yesterday we learned that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia – and we knew through the Collège d'Avocats, for a letter that sent to all the collegiates and collegiates – announced that it would not apply the protocol proposed for the government in order to stop the denouncements of vulnerable families. With regard to these situations, which seem very difficult to us, what do you intend to do with respect, Mr President? Will you give compliments to the agreement with the CUP as much respect for the withdrawal of accusations as to put a stop to the misdemeanours of vulnerable families? Will it be on the side of the prosecution, banks and speculators or vulnerable protesters and families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.122.0	We are at the side of vulnerable families, and this means, in the first place, housing policies, that in the very premise they must have an important leap forward and that we hope to count on their support. Secondly, in cases where a procedure is initiated because of a default, many times at economic precariousness, and a procedure that can end in a denunciation, we need many more tools to intervene from the principles. And that is what the proposal for a protocol pursues, which, as I said, so we can work on a proposal, we can agree on a proposal, but ultimately it is the courts of justice that executes this protocol, and therefore we cannot put ourselves in the place of justice. And so, in this sense, it's working on this proposal for a protocol. I insist, the pilot is at the roof of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, which I believe in this sense, therefore, can appeal to responsibility and sensitivity for the better of the protocol. And on concrete cases of allegations, I will not comment on concrete cases here in the Chamber. In all of them, therefore, it is always working to ensure proportionality and to bear in mind that we must defend two rights at once: the right to freedom of expression of the persons who decide, in the exercise of their freedom, to manifest themselves, and also, obviously, therefore, the right to the physical integrity of the agents and other public officials who do their work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.123.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality about his attitude before the rise of Islamism in Catalonia]] [[317-00062/13]] The question is put by Mr Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.124.0	Mr Aragonès, why are you looking elsewhere at the rise of Islamism in Catalonia? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.126.0	Before the diversity exists in Catalonia, we, therefore, recognize this diversity and work to guarantee the rights of everyone. In view of what may become at some point the increase of certain phonativeisms, which is not the same as the increase of a practice of a particular religion, but the increase of certain phonativeisms, obviously it is working, it is followed, because it is a question that concerns not only the Government of Catalonia, but all those who have responsibilities for the government of the world. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.127.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.128.0	Mr Aragonès, your goodism represents a serious danger to the Catalans as a whole. The arrest last week of several members of a jihadist cell in Barcelona, together with the arrest of three terrorists at the beginning of the year, highlight the difficult situation in our region. And you intend to face reality with blindfolded eyes, without facing the problem face to face and without accepting that Islamism represents one of the main dangers to our society, the security of all citizens and the identity of our homeland. And it is you who are promoting and financing it. The only way to defend our security, Mr Aragonès, is to guarantee the strength of our borders, putting an end to its so-called effect and providing the State's security forces and bodies with the means necessary to cope with the immigration avalanche. Will they really continue not to protect borders? Are you really going to continue to defend terrorists entering our country without any kind of control? Because don't be fooled, with no secure borders, there's no safe neighborhood of any kind. And not only did we talk about the terrorist attacks that we had to suffer, unfortunately, a few years ago in Barcelona, no. We also talk about the breakdown of coexistence, the imposition of failed multicultural societies, the persecution of homosexuals and neighbourhoods in the hands of criminals. Behind every jihadist attack, Mr Aragonès, there is a 2030 agenda that allowed it. Behind each ‘no-go zone' there is a globalist politician who looked elsewhere. Behind every multicultural society, the imposition of ways of life outside our roots, is the wildest globalism that unites one another, socialist and separatist, in the destruction of our way of life. And the Catalans, that this is what it seems that you do not want to understand, even those who voted for you so far, will allow it; nor will they allow you to continue to encourage illegal immigration, nor will they allow you to continue to turn the formerly safe neighborhoods into criminal nests, nor will they allow you to continue to destroy the prosperity and well-being of families and workers in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.130.0	Thank you, President. You said so many beasts in two minutes and a half that I don't know if I'll have time. First thing, you ask me responsibility for border control; that I know Catalonia is not yet an independent state that has power over borders. [[Greetings.]] Secondly, you pose as an example of a supposed laxity in acting in the matter of the inside respect for forms of terrorism that there are arrests of persons allegedly linked to terrorist cells. So, listen to me, if there's any arrests, it's to be investigated and, therefore, it's work in this sense. First part. Second part. You already directly believe that we must be against the United Nations criteria and the 2030 Agenda, very well. I think it's absolutely definite. It is also absolutely clear to you when you try to link what are episodes of violence with a certain cultural diversity that we have in our country. So, look, we're proud of this cultural diversity. You said, "You can change living together, can't you? , can alter social cohesion..., and says: "and the identity of our homeland. This is where it hurts. This is where it bothers them, that this is a different society. [[Greetings.]] It's here. You are the Spanish nationalists of the past – you are the Spanish nationalists of the past. I, escort'm, should first remember some things. The first is that linking certain religious communities or origins to an action..., therefore, to acts of phonenalist violence and phonenalist terrorism is a mistake, because the world's main victims of Gihadist terrorism are people of Muslim religion. And that should be very present. [[Greetings.]] And we can only ensure social cohesion if we secure rights and freedoms, if we ensure equal opportunities. Because when there is no equal opportunity, when the people are secreted, when the intention is to place themselves in administrative irregularity at drawings of thousands of people, then is where the Gihadism has the camp to run. And we won't allow it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.131.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the aspects of the negotiation of the general assumptions of the State]] [[317-00059/13]] Asks the question, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.132.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies... First of all, President, on behalf of Junts for Catalonia, we want to express our full support, as well as to the independent members of the Bureau, in order to guarantee the rights of Members and Deputies, in particular Councillor Lluís Puig, a Member of the Exile of this Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] President, we already know the proposal of general assumptions of the State that the Government wants to approve. And, without going into details, you must share with me that the current project of assumptions is not good for Catalonia, nor does it protect the welfare state, nor does it benefit the progress of Catalans and Catalans. We all know that Mr. Pedro Sánchez could not approve the assumptions without independence. That is why we insist on the need to negotiate with all force. We know that in order to give it I would support an advisable adversity in the resolution of the political conflict. Because it doesn't go from one party or another, it goes from Catalonia. You, President, asked us fifteen days ago for concrete proposals to bring this joint negotiation forward. I'll give you five examples that can be used with the starting point. First; the State must maintain the extraordinary foundations for the covid. To strengthen the system of salvation, we need resources. There's no margin. We play the salvation of Catalans and Catalans. Segon; the co-management of European foundations. Catalonia must be able to decide on cabdal investments for the country. Third; guarantees of compliment of the state's investments. A few days ago we learned that only the thirteen per cent of the first semester of the presupposition proposal to Catalonia in the State had been executed. Fourth; defense of Catalan in the audiovisual sector, which also passes through a law of its own to the Parliament of Catalonia. And five; the transfer of rolls as before has already expressed Vice President Puigneró. They are a starting point, President, with the will to assure us, to work them and to agree. We're convinced it's possible. And in this sense, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, therefore, the proposals that you have put on the table I believe we can share and, therefore, I am convinced that all Members representing Catalonia in the Congress of Deputies, according to the fact that they have been given the ballot boxes, will defend it in what is, therefore, the procedure of the general assumptions of the State. But there is an important element that you have said to the principle, beyond these concrete proposals, that I would like to reiterate, therefore, that they coincide in a good way with what we have been expressing publicly as priorities for the proper assumptions but also for the proper time in relation to the State's investments in Catalonia, and that is an advance in the resolution of the political conflict. And in this sense, I'm going back to expanding my hand because I'm going to be the negotiation process for the defence of the right to self-determination and amnesty in this negotiation process that we're doing from government to government that we're going to be able to move forward and make the conflict we should never have gotten out of, which is politics. Therefore, in order to help in the progress of this negotiation process, much more is helped and, therefore, I invite you to accompany us and to make me feel that way. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.135.0	President, the option is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.136.0	To answer the question, Mr. Albert Batet has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.137.0	Our will for dialogue and negotiation is from the first day and only the veto must be lifted to people who have been in prison to defend the rights of Catalonia and the U of October. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.138.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality. Do you decline to do that? Perfect. He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to minimise the effects of the electric oligopoly]] [[317-00061/13]] Mr Josep Maria Jové spoke on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.139.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable President. 256,33€ megawatt/hour. It's the highest price the light took yesterday to the 8th of the evening. It's a hundred euros more than the most historical thing that just one of me fired all the alarms and it was about four times as high as a year ago. It's not only hard to hear but it's unacceptable. Social indignation has long been reddened because we suffer from the economic depredation of an oligopolis where immoral revolving doors are on the order of the day. And it is that it is directly an infamy to subdue every day the future and anguish of families and businesses. And this is the stage where we are now. While people calculate when they light up the others, who control more than eighty per cent of the market, they get millions and indecent benefits. The measures of the Spanish Government have arrived late and poorly, and they are not at the scene of the problem. They don't want to go. Energy is a common good and people have to be right-wing users. They can't be mere consumers of luxury goods. We are also aware that energy transformation is not going to happen overnight, but it is an urgent revolution and we are going too late. They are taking bold steps towards a public system as we agreed on the principles of legislature. Let the energetic oligopolis stop taking absolute control of the people's day to day. And here we, President, have to make the compromise work: a public energy. These private and dominant oligopolises must be replaced by a democratic energy system, with the participation of citizens and communities. And that also means taking decisive steps towards renewables. Yes, we must put an end to the mortgage that depends on gas, nuclear and fossil fuels, and that goes to implement and deploy renewables, green energy, well. Neither electrical oligopolies nor Castor models, nor facilitate macroprojects with free bar. It's about getting us out of this predatory model with people and with the planet, the revolving doors, the ones that have the most benefits just when the people suffer the most. That's helping people, not doing it would be political, economic and moral decay. Defending an economy for people will never be decadent. For all intents and purposes, president, what does the government propose to minimize the effects of the electric oligopoly? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.140.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.141.0	Thank you very much, President. The rise in energy prices that has taken place in Europe, but which in a more difficult way in the case of the Spanish State, threatens the next winter and, therefore, we will act. It threatens economic recovery by increasing the costs of businesses, especially industrial costs. In this case, the increase in the index of industrial prices has increased after a deu_per_cent, and we have inflation in the energy field located at thirty_per_cent. Therefore, it threatens economic recovery. But it also threatens many families because of the need to warm up their own winter and to be able to access electricity for their day to day. We must therefore take steps forward, some of which are obviously long-term effects, replacing fossil fuels with renewable energy sources, and replacing the dependence of gas and oil on energy sovereignty. We have a concentration on very few businesses in the country's energy market and we have seen clear examples of revolving doors, of the link between political decision-making and business power. And therefore, this must be reversed and we must go to a much more diversified model in which there must be citizen participation through energy cooperatives, in which we must encourage the emergence of many more actors in the different areas of energy market, in generation, in marketing, but also in distribution. And in this sense I need to plan. Today, with Councilwoman Jordà we will explain the full energy transition route for the next few years in the country where we want citizen participation, where we want a distributed model and a renewable-based model that needs planning to sort it out and to make it possible to move forward, if we do not have an outdated model. And, in this sense, the public energy company project, which is part of the investment agreements and the Government Plan, must serve to facilitate the participation of the Government in renewable energy projects by, one day, finalising the concessions of hydroelectric power stations to internal shells, being able to take over, if necessary, it managed it through this public energy. And also to facilitate the sale of small self-consumption communities and the energy generation area in which the Government of Catalonia also participates. Therefore, it is a compromise to move forward feeling aware that there is a part that depends on the European market and that defends our interests in the European market badly it is not the Government of Catalonia but the Government of the State. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.142.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to be answered orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the planned date for the submission of the draft law on assumptions for 2022]] [[317-00064/13]] The question is put by Mr Salvador Illa on behalf of the Socialists and Unity Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.143.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Today we have lived without ETA for ten years. And I want to start this control session by remembering what and paying tribute to all those who suffered their incomprehensible violence. [[Greetings.]] It seemed that there was no way, we seemed doomed to an eternal curse. And there was a way, and we knew how to find it. Before the Gra, Mr Aragonès, Article 32 of the Law on Finance of the Generalitat states that before October 10 the Government must present in Parliament its draft assumptions. It's 20 october, it's been days since this term expired. Mr. Aragonès, when does your government intend to deliver to this chamber the draft assumptions for 2022?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.144.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.145.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, I add to your words, therefore, to put in value that it makes years of the finalization of the armed violence actions of ETA. I also had the opportunity to express the fact of..., greet the steps before they happened in this process. And today is also a day when we need to set a record for all the victims, especially for the victims in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] That said – said that – as we have already announced publicly, at the beginning of November we will present the draft assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2022 here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.146.0	To answer the question, Mr. Salvador Illa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.147.0	When it's done folded, you get as many files as you do in your reply as I did in the intervention we started today, right? I ask them in the matter of supposition, Mr. President, Mr. Aragones, seriously. They demand rigor and they ask, above all, that you think of Catalonia and, above all, that you think of the citizens of Catalonia. Cal remunerate in 2010– Gouvernement Montilla – to find Catalonia a presupposition approved in time and form. In the past six years, five of whom have direct financial responsibilities, have only approved – in the later six years – two assumptions and always out of line. 2017, with the CUP, and 2020, with the commons. You promised to go to your investiture with a project of assumptions. He's been there three times, and he hasn't been there three times. And he was trading for three months on his investiture. Miri, seriousness and rigour at these exceptional moments mean, as a minimum, to present in this chamber a project of assumptions. Some ask him to return to the exit box. I'm asking you to give me the snitch. I've told you with all due respect that I think your government is not on the rise. Modestly I think I'm encapsulating an alternative that you're representing, but I also tell you a little more that I'm willing to reason because Catalonia has in time and forms assumptions of the 1st generation of 2022. Give the exit line instead of going back to the exit box. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.148.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.149.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, respect the dates of the submission of the assumptions, the date of 10 October also, in the time of the Government Montilla, had been completed – also. Therefore, I think this means that it may be necessary to review the date, if no government has completed the date of October 10. We will present the draft assumptions so that it can be in effect, therefore, the 1st generation of 2022. This is our compromise. It will be a project of assumptions that will be consistent with the investment program and the government plan that we approved a few weeks ago. And, therefore, it will put in the resources for the deployment of what is the investment program. And, therefore, in this sense, I hope to have the support of all the political forces that made the investiture possible. But we need – precisely speaking of rigour, of the seriousness of the assumptions – guarantees of execution. Under the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia, the level of execution is much higher than the General Presumptions of the State and their investments in Catalonia especially. Therefore, we do work from rigour and from seriousness. And we need to incorporate much more resources, because it is clear that in the realm of welfare, salvation, teaching, social services, housing, we need to take a step forward. And for the best part, we don't have these resources, you have them that collect most of the taxes, which is the state. And a rest. You've reported that in the past few years, so there's been more years of presupposition than not approved. The state government has... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.150.0	President... Time's up, President. [[Some applause.]] [[Decree Ill 21/2021, of October 5, for which is created the extraordinary additional Fund 2021 for the locals]] [[203-00012/13]] After the control session, we pass now to the next item on the order of the day, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 21/2021, of October 5, for which is created the extraordinary additional Fund 2021 for the local authorities. In the first place, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the President's Counsellor will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. It has the word, therefore, the councilwoman Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.151.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies... Compare today to ask for the vote in favor of the validation of Decree Ill 21/2021, of 5 October, for which is created the extraordinary additional Fund 2021 for the local Ens. Before, however, let me contextualize the need to put local finances at the centre of our concerns. As you know, today I'm leading from this cliff to all of you as head of the government's relations with local governments. And I can show you that we take it very seriously that many times we have expressed, that we are a municipalist government and that we do not give it as a simple slogan. Being an administration closer to the gatherings, this is one of the main objectives that we have marked since the Department of Presidency. We want to listen to the city world's voice and make them partakers of the country's decisions. And we understand that the relationship between the Generality and local authorities must be and must be based on a relationship of trust, mutual recognition, follow-up and service at the same level of cooperation and co-decision. In fact, in this sense, disbanded I was able to be on the forty anniversary of the Catalan Association of Municipis, the surely largest municipalist entity in the country. She was also the Speaker of Parliament, the Vice-President... And therefore, there we were able to copy, we were able to express the will to co-decide with the local world. We know, therefore, that all local governments have suffered a lot in the past few months. We are aware that the pandemic has affected thousands of people, thousands of businesses, but it has also harmed, and a lot, the municipal arks, if the financing problems of local administrations do not begin in the pandemic. And we know what we have been or who I am, so mayors, mayors, governors and governors, we must point out, however, that during this pandemic the assemblies, the councils, all the municipalities have seen their recaptancy reduced and they have had to deal, for another group, with many requests from citizens or the business community. In fact, with the data at hand, the correspondents to the liquidations of the years 2019, 2020 and of the presupposition 2021, we note that there has been a clear reduction in the percentage of net turnover of direct and indirect taxes and taxes, which has gone from the norma-sis_per_cent, 2019, to the norma-three_per_cent, 2020. And that in absolute terms, if we accumulate it, therefore, they will be around 420_million euros less collected for the assemblies. Therefore, the Government of the Generalitat is closing today in the need not only to guarantee the planned contributions, but to extend them to address the social and economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic in the assemblies. And that's why the government has taken a step further, and the Executive Board approved last October 5th this decree that I present to you, for which we create an extraordinary foundation for local administrations of 100_million euros to deal with the effects of the covid crisis. These 100_millions will be direct help to the local world. They can be used for the most urgent needs. As they must have found, it is a matter of creating an extraordinary import fund of 100_millions as a complement to the local cooperation fund of Catalonia to contribute to the financing of local authorities. The foundation of ordinary local cooperation, as you know, has always been handled by law. Therefore, this extraordinary additional 2021 Fons must also be processed by means of a standard of the same rank. And the criteria of distribution of the extraordinary fund are conditioned to the distribution to locals of Catalonia of the participation in the entrances of the Generalitat integrated in the fund of local cooperation of Catalonia. At these times, these 100_millions add up to 20_million euros from the previous exercise, and, therefore, are this summary of this extraordinary background. In fact, the Catalan government, and despite all its presuppositionary limitations, has brought resources to the sectors most affected by the pandemic as well as other State execution. And with the locals, obviously, we also had this compromise pending, because the recognition of municipalism does not only repeat it to us whenever we want, but we prioritise it in our political action. Therefore, for all intents and purposes, they ask them to vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.152.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, according to which it was agreed at the back of the doorknob, will be a maximum of five minutes for each group. It has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.153.0	I'll do what I can because I don't really see it. [[Rialles.]] I'm having a hard time. Well, I guess they'll feel me. As you know, the Local Cooperation Branch made a report assessing the pandemic's impact on local entry, as I was just commenting. In that report, the assumptions were analyzed..., ai, the liquidations of 2019, 2020 and the assumptions of 2021, and also the data of the Ministry of Hisenda. From these data it is clear that there has been a reduction, as I said, in the percentage of the recovery, and therefore there has been a clear loss. Specifically, these 420_million euros you were talking about. This decrease in the recapitulation justifies above all the provision of the extraordinary fund for the import of 100_million euros as a complement to the local cooperation fund. But, Counselor, we cannot forget that the past year has already agreed on this extraordinary foundation with the municipal authorities. In fact, the government committed to provide this additional 120_million euros, precisely, to address the effects caused by the pandemic. Her successor, Mrs. Budó, explained that the payment of this extraordinary fund is concrete in two phases: during 2020 she is posing at the abst 20_million euros and the rest is paying 50_million in the first quarter of 2021, which has not been completed, and 50_million remaining during the year, at the end of 2021. And today's announcement that they will pay these 100_million euros. Home, let's say it was about time, 'cause they're late. And, besides, they've done it badly. But it's obvious that these losers who had the joints aren't going to be enough. In fact, the year before the municipalist entities we valued with good eyes the gesture of the extraordinary fund of cooperation, but they also demanded a review to the heights. And that's exactly what we're complaining about right now. And, as you know, it is necessary to apply these compensatory lines to the joints in order not to weaken municipal services and not to compensate for it through taxation. You know how we see this, Counselor, that you today make this decree thanks to the resources that have come from the Government of Spain. Yeah. Why? Apart from this, from those who came from the Government of Spain, because for the local authorities, in concrete terms, the assumptions that are being laid down pass from the 19_millions of the 21st, from the 21st, to the 23_millions of the 2022. Therefore, we are talking about a disset_per_cent more in the topic of joints, assumptions..., increase for locals. That's 3,400 million more. I suppose he's aware that over the last few years the co-operation fund has been diminishing. In fact, 2010 was 156_million and today we are valid for 100_million euros, which I say with this and it already shows that the resources are not enough and, moreover, have decreased. The year that sees the general assumptions of the State will increase a disk and we do what we did here is download a disk. This extraordinary source of cooperation, therefore, I have to make it clear that it is out of date. And we can't let the gatherings, other times, be left without resources, because locals have demonstrated their leadership during the pandemic, providing resources and solutions, which managed skills that in most cases weren't their own. And finally, Counselor, let me tell you something with this voice I have today. Last week, to the Commission of the CAI, you, this government so compromised with municipalism, and which you have said today, voted against increasing resources for a new foundation of local cooperation, precisely for the gatherings. We are tired of so much hypocrisy, and I hope that the proper assumption was reflected in this review of the heights that spoke to it. And, in fact, I was also 40 years old from the Catalan Association of Municipis, because that's where we need to be, but not just for the picture. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.154.0	Next, and on behalf of the Vox Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.155.0	Yeah, good. Good morning, deputies, president, councillor. Today, it is again evident that the municipalities are clearly being despised and not united by the Autonomous Administration and also by the National Administration. The administration that is really and has been at the forefront of fighting the covid and its social and economic consequences is being the great forgotten in the allocation of extraordinary funds to deal with the pandemic. The municipalities have had to increase their social spending very significantly, as they said before, and have suffered a very significant fall in tax collection as a result of the reduction in economic activity. The Spanish Government has also forgotten the municipalities in the face of this vivid and suffering situation as a result of the covid, has it not? The minister of finance came to commit 5,000_million extraordinary for the municipalities, and they have not seen a hard one. It has been the only government in Europe that has not directly helped local authorities, and not only that, but also Hacienda is still gnawing the €3,000_million to all the municipalities of Spain, as a result of the deliveries made to them by Hacienda on the basis of the revenues of the State that corresponded in 2021. But the autonomous communities, and specifically Catalonia, are not doing much better. I assumed, in some way, Mrs. Vilagrà of a fund of 20_million last year, and, finally, it's that this is that they're peanuts, that they're crumbs. 20_million_de_euro for 947 municipalities, 4 deputies, 42 county councils. Do you think that's for throwing rockets? If you play three euros per citizen. It really is the administration that is really at the forefront of citizens' problems and demands, and this year it presumes that it invests a hundred. And talk to the city halls. It's just that it's an absolutely ridiculous figure. Please note that on August 3, the Spanish government itself announced 2,161_million for the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, and send 100 to the municipalities? And on top of that, do you presume? And they say they're municipalists? It's amazing. It's really amazing. And, on the other hand, I meant before it's over. I mean, look, let's see, if it's an extraordinary help to fight the covid, the curious thing, the most correct thing would have been that covid factors had been taken into account: health incidence, population density, etc., not to make a distribution according to the number of inhabitants and little more, because it hasn't affected the covid in the same way – I invent it – in Salou than in Boí Taüll. That is, to distribute the money according to how many inhabitants you have without considering how the pandemic has been affecting over the past few months, as it is a simplistic criterion, not to say a pimp. We will, of course, vote against this proposal. Not because we are against helping municipalities, but because we think that this aid is absolutely insufficient, it is absolutely ridiculous. And we, therefore, as I say, will vote against and we will ask that this bill, therefore, be treated as a bill. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.156.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - One or Cycle for Guanyar, Ms. Maria Dolors Sabater has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.157.0	Thank you, President. Deputy MPs, Counselor. Obviously this is a positive decree, because it involves providing extraordinary foundations for local people, who are the administrations that, in the end and in the end, face public policies that improve people's lives, but it is also a decree that puts into evidence the contradictions and fables of local finance. As the same decree says, and I read it textually: "The municipalities are the administration closest to the city, the first gateway to the demands and needs of the veins, and who administers and executes the majority of decisions taken by other administrations. Exactly, and this is one of the decisions taken by the other administrations that condition it the most, is the text recast of the law regulating local hysendas, huh? , this Royal Decree Legislative 2/2004, which has received many modifications, which is a law of the 78th Regime, which chronicles insufficient financing, a financing dependent on random taxes and subject to the laws of the market, and, moreover, also marks a lack of autonomy to apply social and redistribution criteria. Mrs. Moreta, you made a point of financing the State, precisely, the State is what marks these rules of the game that both open and so many difficulties pose to the local world. It is the State, with its law, that marks it. We would vote in favour of this, but we would like to table two shortcomings that we would like to address. The first is an instrumental type, let's say. You, as you have said, counsel, that you are looking at this closeness and listening to the assemblies, sure that there must already have been a rejection of information on the difficult difficulties faced by the majority of municipalities to cope with the bureaucratic requirements that, many times, because of inflexibility in terms of terms, because of unfairness in terms of conditions, the characteristics of each municipality or because of the specific difficulties that they have in many places to hold the infrastructure to deal with them, leave many joints without the capacity to deal with them. The subsidy system, as proposed, needs to be reviewed. And there is also a lack of fairness generated by certain conditions respecting the size of the municipalities, which makes many municipalities remain in the land of no one. They're too few towns for some things, too many towns for others, and they stay out of the rules of the game. Or, sometimes, for density's sakes. They are territories with very little population but with a large territorial extension and this is not taken into account at the time of counting the external expenses that involve them having this territorial extension. This instrumental part is one, the other, that already pointed it out, is this fever of local finance, in general, regulated in a restrictive autonomic framework, which imposes conditions on the service of an economic system dominated by capital. What marks the financing of the joint ventures are not the criteria of social justice or of serving the rights of the citizenry, but this service to the capital, one of the causes of the infra-financing of the joint ventures and that, precisely because of this we are ahead of the consequences of the crisis of the covid, it is precisely that they depend on a good part of their entrances, on some entrances that are not stable, such as the taxes of surplus or of constructions, that they make totally dependent on the market. It can't be that the city's financing went off the market. Another of the main cotillas imposed by the state law is that the joints cannot apply progressive taxes, that the bonuses that allow, of the IBI, as in the case, for example, of the families named, in not being able to apply income criteria is converted into a retrogressive bonus. Or, for example, what has happened for so many years, that the IBI could not be charged to the empty floor, something that the State has been holding for years. I don't speak, for example, that they can't apply – they can't apply any of the joints – the IBI to England. Therefore, our day: welcome is this contribution, but we really face the real structural problem of municipal finance and face it with the sovereignist perspective, with the rupturist perspective with the 78's rule and, finally, tell it that we will ask it, too, that it is passed on as it is to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.159.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies; councillor. Well, I say that our parliamentary group will vote in favour of this decree. You said they did it by municipalism, didn't you? And they're planting an increase in co-decision with the joints, which we share. But it is obvious that without resources there is no co-decision possible. And the problem of the lack of resources of the infra-financing of the joints is not only the derivative of the reduction of the recapitation as the consequence of the covid, but it is a structural problem, that goes back many years, that it is historical and that, moreover, has gone worse in the last few years. Actually, right? , therefore, for certain state legislation promoted by the Government of the People's Party, but also for the progressive reduction of the fund of local cooperation. With this extraordinary background, your fan, in fact, that you had already granted to do and that you had already said that you would do in the same exhibition of Motius of Decree 43/2020, of the past year and that we approved in this chamber. So, they're complete with the commitments, which is fine, isn't it? And, therefore, as I said, we shall vote in favour. It is true that the Generality, in the current context, has much more public resources. And, therefore, we have what the inquiry is because, these public resources of more than the Generality has in the last few days, therefore, than arriving in the municipality. And that, therefore, we correct this injustice, say, of lack of financing of the joints that do not reach the 14_percent of the total public expenditure. And, therefore, this has to be corrected not with extraordinary funds or only with extraordinary funds, but in a structural way, and we encourage them that the assumptions of the year coming from the Generality incorporate much more resources into the ordinary local cooperation fund. Speaking with the gatherings, we believe that these resources are still not enough, they are all needed – as I said – but that they are still not enough. And, in addition, because of its exceptional condition. Therefore, we are concerned that it is what will pass the year coming to the assumptions of the Generality. It is true, too, that, in the distribution of these resources – it was said before, also interventions that preceded me, right? – only the population criteria are used, as is done in the ordinary fields of local cooperation, there are no specific resources for affecting the covid, which has obviously affected differently in the different territories and which have different needs. And if we are to replace, therefore, that in view of the assumptions of the year coming, in the field of local cooperation, more than distributing for the criteria of population use other criteria. To me, right now, they poison me in the head with the least... with the least two, don't they? One is all it has to do with environmental services that provide gatherings, isn't it? And that, therefore, you don't just have to see with the people, but you have to see with the surface that the gatherings manage. In fact, of the 947 municipalities of Catalunya, only 63 have more than 20,000 inhabitants. That's a 6.6_per_cent. I, in change, 650 municipalities, which is almost 70_percent of the municipalities, have fewer than 2,000 inhabitants. That's why, isn't it? Says it in other words, huh? , 95_percent of the population of Catalonia is concentrated in 25_percent of the municipalities. Therefore, the vast majority of the territory of this country is managed by small municipalities. And, therefore, I must make an effort to finance much better the small municipalities, which manage a lot of land and which provide a whole series of environmental, ecological and landscape services for the country as a whole. Another criterion that I see in my mind is all that has to do with social needs. Not all municipalities have the same needs. We know, therefore, that in certain territories there is much more vulnerable population. In certain municipalities, for example, therefore, midtowns of the second metropolitan crown, and that at the same time, this restores their capacity for recapitation, right? That is to say, precisely for a socio-demographic issue, they receive less per capita and, in change, they have many more social needs. So, here's another criterion that we should... that we think we should explore in time to distribute resources among the municipalities. And last, I'd give it to you, huh? , you have more resources. And so, well, I understand that it's medals, but, man, the reality is that there's been a series of decisions by the state government that have helped them to have more resources. For example, the flexibility of the deficit rule, which could reach '1,1_per_cent, but year 2020 was in the 0,4_per_cent of the deficit. So they can spend more and we ask them to do it, right? They have increased the guany supposition by 1,800_million euros, when they can do it by 2,500. Therefore, here there is more expenditure capacity than it has to arrive, too, at the gatherings. All the transfers of covid funds that allow, for example, to make the direct aids that the conseiller Torrent makes an estona in us, that the generality is the government that more direct aids has done; thanks, among other things, to the direct answers covid, the European funds that will arrive and also the budgetary increase of the general assumptions of the State, that has passed from 179_euros per inhabitant of the year 2018 to 312 that there is to the project of 2022. Therefore, it is a very significant increase in resources allocated to Catalonia in the general assumptions of the State. Therefore, it is not the same as governments. We think there's a lot more to do, but in any case, the conditions have improved and this should come together. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.160.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.161.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs; Councillor. Well; I think it was talked about, but the role of the municipalities during the pandemic, in short, usually in the day to day of the citizens, but especially during the pandemic, was the first line of defense of the city before all the health, social and economic consequences generated by the covid-19. It is also true what has been said here, that there has been a very obvious reduction in tickets. There's been talk of 420 fewer_millions, which have, in some way..., added to the patience that local administrations already have to keep this day to day serving and managing the city. Let's remember – and we all have it in our images – what the gatherings had to do, many times, left out of hand, both from the Autonomous Administration, as from the State in many cases, how they had to settle the response before the crises to the residences of large people; how they had to solve the problems of security, where the Mossos did not arrive and the local police were to be, therefore, managing the confinement that was somehow obliged to maintain the Local Administration. Therefore, I believe that the situation in which we have lived, therefore, for us makes it right and that I think it is appropriate an extraordinary foundation for the gatherings. We will vote in favour, basically, because we believe that it is a way of gratifying or giving thanks to local administrations. But... – and here I start to differentiate the negative part of all this – you said that the administration closest, say, to the citizen, is the assembly, will advise. And that the Administration of the Generality wants to be close to the joints. But what's obvious is that, beyond the extraordinary 20-million fund that you approved and these 100-million, which is 120-million in total, we need to talk about the local cooperation fund that, for us, it's important that we take into account and that we make the right and correct criticism of what you suppose for the gatherings. Honestly, there are two reviews here. One, he talked about his distribution, his distribution or distribution based on a set of parameters. That I know, it's not just the people, it's just that there are other parameters. In fact, the differences between municipalities– and here we could set examples with regional capitals of about 6,000 inhabitants and regional capitals of 200,000, like my city, Sabadell – which are per capita, they are abyssal. In fact, if we make quick clicks, the city of Sabadell rep of the co-operation fund about three euros per inhabitant, annual, three euros. In change, there are comarques or capitals of region that earn 25_euros. It's not one thing either... I'm actually talking about which is the tiny contribution that the Generalitat makes to every city. But there's an abysmal difference. So it's not just population, it's all the opposite. In fact, if it were a population, its distribution would be much fairer. We believe that what they bring to the arks, in fact, to the treasury and to municipal finance, is insufficient. And we have to say, it's insufficient. The Generalitat does not provide sufficient resources for the expenses or costs incurred by the citizens. And I will, in fact, and I would like to put some examples that can be described or explained much better. I'll lay down from my town, very quickly. Sabadell rep 16,000 euros of the co-operation fund, annual. It has a presupposition of 230_million. Therefore, these moneys will only be used, in fact, to pay – and I know hard, the example – to pay the cost of maintaining the city's traffic lights; they only serve us for this. In fact, the cost or expense of the Bressol School Programme is 7.5 times more. The Bressol schools that pay the city, that pay the municipality and that would have to coopt the Generalitat. Therefore, this cost overrun does not cover it. Nor does it cover the cost at security expense. Let us remember that the municipal or local police, many times it has to cover a good part of the security deficit that does not pay the Generality. We could give other examples. For example, in this case, therefore, the maintenance of primary schools, so they are sometimes more than we get from the co-operation fund. Therefore, the foundation of cooperation is insufficient. It's all right. It is obvious that we have and will vote for this extraordinary foundation, but it is totally inadequate and the assemblies are not well financed or treated for the Government of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.162.0	Next, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.163.0	Thank you, President. I'll speak from my sco because I'll be brief. We'll abstain at this point. It's better 100_million euros than anything else, no doubt, that's the motive for forbearance, but it's very short; very short, the endowment of this fund. We cannot approve a fund to compensate for the recaptancy fall when we are estimating it in 400_million euros and we only contribute 100. It's a long way from what's actually an effective compensation. Besides, this measure up late and later, the problem you have is that it takes a lot of red tape at home to get these money. And that's what slows the perception even further, when what is needed is very agile. Now the locals that need it are all the foundations that can be filled with the salt as soon as possible, since they are the ones who are in the front line with the citizens. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to ask what will happen in 2022, if we go on the line of making another additional fund or it is already foreseen in the assumptions that will present us briefly, as announced here today, an increment of the Local Cooperation Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.164.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs. Anna Feliu has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.165.0	All right. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... the break-in of covid-19 marked, disrupted many areas of our society. Many people have suffered bravely, others have lost their lives. Fail not to forget it. Various productive sectors have suffered from severe economic impacts on their activity and development. Also the public administrations in their conjunction have been deeply affected. The assemblies have had a lot of overheads and also a reduction in the overall recap of about €420_million. Thus, with good criteria, the Government of the Generality at the end of 2020 agreed to an extension of the Local Cooperation Fund with an extraordinary contribution of 120_million euros, 20_million euros for 2020 and 100_million euros for 2021. Undoubtedly, this extraordinary gift also supposes an effort for the government to be clearly recognized and grateful. An effort, however, well directed and of high direct effectiveness because the joints are the administration closest to the city and, therefore, the first access door to the requests and needs of all the veins and veins. The creation of this extraordinary foundation means, therefore, a firm commitment from the Government to local administrations and a guarantee that the assemblies can continue to offer their services and help. It is thus clear that the Government of the Generalitat must be an ally in local politics, a government with vocation and a municipalist visit that works together and coordinated with the local world. Allow me also to take advantage of the adversity to highlight an important issue that points to the plot of the issue that concerns us: the problem of financing local authorities and the continuing attacks on local sovereignty with the imposition of the LRSAL and the law of fiscal stability and sustainability will finance. It's true that the pandemic has caused a little air to be donated to local governments, but it's not enough. The presupposition and sustainability rules will place local authorities in a situation of de facto control and intervention that is not justified. This is why it is essential to reclaim the immediate and definitive waiver of the LRSAL from the Spanish State. Moreover, these years we have also seen how the principle of local self-sufficiency has been undermined, without better participation in State tickets and without articulating a local financing system that provides the municipal world with sufficient capacity to meet the various obligations. Fortunately, the sensitivity and compromise of the Government of Catalonia has allowed it to face a situation that could have been very unfavorable. Escau, for all the above-mentioned, will advise, to give thanks to this government's compromise at times as sensitive as we live. I do so as the deputy and also as the mayor of my esteemed town and I want to believe that also in representation of so many mayors and mayors of towns and cities in the country who have seen with relief the intervention of this government. Now, therefore, we must ratify this decree because it is not only essential, but also necessary. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.166.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs.Jordina Freixanet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.167.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors... I am particularly pleased to defend the position of the Republican Group precisely in the validation of this decree, for which is created the extraordinary additional foundation for 2021 for the local authorities, with a endowment of 100_million euros, because this decree is a true declaration of intent of this Government, a firm and determined bet for municipalism, without subterfuges or excuses; a firm and determined bet to provide resources to southern Catalonia. Also Barruera, Durro and Sarais, to the Valley of Boí. "Facts and no words," said Councilwoman Vilagrà. We want a municipal government, but we want this not to be a simple slogan. Well, 100 million euros in a fund is a clear proof. They will also allow me from here, from this rostrum, to lead me with empathy and grace to all of the country's mayors and mayors, according to the color they follow; directors, directors, administrative staff, municipal brigades, safety nets, social educators, technicians from all walks of life. Only those people who have experienced the hardest moments of the pandemic from the gatherings of each of the towns and cities of Catalonia know what we have come to suffer to support our cities; to fight the loneliness from the distance; to hard drugs or to buy it at home to our great children when they were away; to digitalize the trade and restoration of each barrier; to lie down the groves in the tunnels of each house and take advantage of the journey to carry-this game of table, counts or colors and to care for the families; to be able to enter the nasixements in the padró when the Administration ended all the terms administered– it has ended, the ones of life, who decide that they will never be saved in the first place. We're going to have to rethink everything, and even the whole way of maintaining the most basic democracy, there are the first ones to do full telematics when we didn't even have any tools, to get everyone's lives right when it seemed like the world was almost over. From the first moment, from the 13th of March, all the gatherings we went round to work, to work and to work, and we continue to do so, because the effects of the covid have not finished. The most nine hundred gatherings in Catalonia were on the side of the city. For this reason, the law that today is the door to validation is an act of justice with the local world, it is a reinforcement to the first dic of containment of all public administrations. Without cities, without towns, the recovery of Catalonia will be incomplete. And this government knows and acts accordingly. And let me add that as much good the State has the same sensitivity as this government. We only ask them that instead of staying with the Romans and telling us how and when to spend the money, they are brave and complete the agreements, they remove the LRSAL. They said they'd do it. It seems, however, that the PP's cotilles go beyond the most progressive government in history. And we're late, too late. The cities we plan for the year 2022 are concerned with 2013 in Montoro. And they will allow me to join, and not extend'me, in the reflection that all the deputies have made respect to the financing of the local world. It can't be. It cannot be that of all the citizens' tributes, only the fifteen_per_cent correspond to the local world, one_euro and half of each of the ten_euros of each person who pays their tributes. It is necessary to start a frank debate at a time and it will be about local finance linked to competition and territorial debate, but it is a priority to put on the agenda at a time for all this debate. And we need to rush into the state, but we also need to get it from municipalism. Speaking of country consensus, therefore it is clear, Members and Members, that this is, of course, one of the great country consensuses. And I end up with an opportunity for hope, because they know that municipalism, despite everything, is optimistic. Councillor Vilagrà, you said that the assemblies are an essential pot of our country and that this government will continue to work hand in hand, because the country is all and we are all. So yes, the joints are the vertebral force and here, counselor, arm to arm, we embrace his work. Because we want sovereign, democratic and resourceful gatherings, which are old enough for every square, every school and every city, we continue to be able to vertebrate solutions from the global environment and the place to pull forward and co-governance the transformations that are being driven from the Generality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.168.0	Yeah, just an organization detail. They know that I always cry out three times to vote, but as we are now the totality of the members of the chamber, I would ask that when the vagina arrives, they enter. I know they do it out of respect for the speaker, but it's better that no crowds are produced. He's the one who's been asking us for... the ones responsible for salvation. So, we have the three calls to the vote, three minutes before, but then when the vagina comes in because it doesn't produce the crowds at the entrance. [[Widow's remorse.]] Finally, then, the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are votes in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us then proceed to the vote of the Decree Law 21/2021. [[Widow's remorse.]] One moment – one moment. The vote begins. The result of the vote is 120 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. Therefore, with the result of the vote, the Decree Law 21/2021 has been validated. [[Greetings.]] Once this decree is ratified, I ask the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to process the decree..., and the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater announced it in her intervention. So, we're voting now... the VOX Group is also joining the petition. And, therefore, we will now vote if it is to be processed..., the processing, in fact, of this decree law as the bill of law. We also understand that the votes in favour are in favour of their processing and the votes against are against. The vote begins. With the result of 20 votes in favour, 110 votes against and 4 abstentions, the law decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Decree-Law 20/2021, of 14 September, amending Decree-Law 41/2020, of 10 November, on extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in the reading and extra-curricular activities to deal with the consequences of covid-19]] [[203-00010/13]] We move on to the fifth item of the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 20/2021 of 14 September, amending Decree Law 41/2020 of 10 November, of extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in reading and extracurricular activities to deal with the consequences of covid-19. In the first place, the education advisor will intervene, to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. You've got the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.169.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the law we present today is an amendment to Decree 41/2020, approved practically a year ago. Both that first decree and the one we present today have the same common objective, have a double objective: to improve the management of the pandemic in the day-to-day at the educational centres, and according to the objective: to facilitate the application of the corresponding health protocols to our professionals. The measure that we are now changing seeks, therefore, to agile and improve the coordination between the professionals of education and health at the time of acting for prevention and health in our educational centers. The original decree authorizes the Department of Health to inform directly the direction of the educational centres of the results of the diagnostic tests that are carried out with the motivation of the covid-19 in the environment of education, so that it can take the appropriate measures with the most rapid, with the greatest agility, and give response thus to cases that require confinement. The initial text, therefore, refers only to the result of diagnostic tests, since vaccination was not yet implemented. One year later, we can say that this communication of data, established by Decree Law 41/2020, was an essential tool for giving security to the entire educational community and, no doubt, was key at the time of being able to keep schools open and secure throughout the past course, and it also feels so. And this past year, the health situation and the scenario of the pandemic have evolved into a much more favorable scene, especially thanks to vaccination. The vaccination campaign and the evolution of epidemiological data have opened a different scene for this course 21-22, but while the group immunity is not obtained to maintain maximum caution and the protection and prevention measures that the health authorities indicate to us. The covid-19 case management protocol at the educational centres for the current course sets different lifes of action according to whether or not the close contacts of a positive have rejected the full vaccination schedule. And here's where we need to change the law decree of the past year, to expand this realm of coordination that we already had for diagnostic tests, and now we're expanding it for vaccination data. This will allow, as I have said, to continue applying the protocol and also to ensure maximum visibility between the collections that already have the full vaccination schedule. Therefore, the only point of the decree that we present today is the authority of the Department of Health to communicate to the direction of the educational centres the data of vaccination of the student, teaching staff, administration staff and servants, educational staff and other external personnel who are in contact with the student in the educational environment. These data are necessary for the long term activities related to the current healthcare management, with the case management protocol. The decree clearly incorporates, as it cannot otherwise be, the secrecy and confidentiality of this information, which must be used solely and exclusively in order to be able to act before a positive case in an educational centre. It is therefore essential for the centre to have this access immediately to the vaccination data of the members of the stable living group, to act promptly and to apply the least restrictive measures possible to guarantee the right to education of our students, of our children and of our young people and, therefore, to ensure that the student with the full vaccination pattern who is contacted is able to attend the educational centre every day. That is why we hope to be able to validate this law decree, which must allow us to follow open and secure schools during this school year. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.170.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then, the parliamentary groups will intervene to fix their position, and their turn, as we have given at the last meeting of spokespersons, will be of five minutes for each group. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialists and Units for Advance Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.171.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsel, today subject to debate and validation this decree amending Decree 41/2020, extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in the reading and extra-curricular activities in order to deal with the consequences of the covid, which basically established measures of prevention and protection of health at the educational centre, where the Health Department was empowered to communicate to the Department of Education identifying data both of students as docile and non-docian personnel who are in contact with the student in the educational setting that are necessary to manage the health emergency at the centre and also to the sector of the lecture, and to facilitate the tracing and tracing of the virus. It also included support measures for the education sector in the classroom and out-of-school activities, at the time very affected by the pandemic – very economically affected, understood – or available, for example, to ensure the continuity of individual food aid in cases of closure of groups or centres running from the pandemic. A decree on which, in its day, we have expressed some reservations regarding aid and access, among others, but which we have facilitated with one abstention because they know that the Socialist Group and the Unites per Avançar, despite being demanding at the time to ask compensation for directly affected sectors, as has been the case with education, has always had to do with the decisions of the health authorities to protect the citizenry and to curb the risk of contagion, also obviously, therefore, to the education system. So, well, the change that we are being subjected to today's debate and validation only incorporates a change, as we understand it, correct and uncertain, to allow the Health Department to communicate to the addresses of the centers the data of vaccination of the student, to the band of the teaching staff, personnel of administration and services, of educational assistance or other external personnel who are in contact with this student necessary for this correct management of the health emergency in the current, in a system with more than 5,400 centers, with 72,000 groups of stable coexistence and, therefore, a system of complex management. In particular, if before the health data that were authorized to communicate were the correspondents to the results of the diagnostic tests of covid, because the vaccination, therefore, we have not yet implemented it, now they add the vaccination of this student as well as of the rest of the educational staff, which previously mentioned, to ensure the effectiveness of the combination of preventive and protective measures. And, as I said, it seems to us to be an appropriate measure so that each centre can adopt the protocols more effectively, avoiding the delays that it would take to ask for data from families or their students, since this could also have effects on the control of the epidemic and on the guarantee of access to education. In this way we understand that it is easy for the centres to know the state of vaccination of the student and his staff and, therefore, as the counselor well explained, that in some stable group of cohabitation in a classroom is detected a position, so the student on whom it is held has information that he has the full vaccination schedule – for now more than twelve years – or that he has passed the quota in the last one hundred and forty days should not be doing the preventive quarantine, as in the case of the dozen. And, therefore, it's a way of breaking community transmission chains applying strict containment measures, isn't it? , in the tightest contacts that are fast and agile, but also in the most appropriate way and, therefore, avoid possible school losses that would be unnecessary. And, said that, he wanted to put it back in value and celebrate the decision that was made on his day of reopening Spain's schools. Celebrate this communication between Health and Education that has allowed you to have a course, the past, the most normal and face-to-face of what we have all surely thought, right? , at least in the childhood and primary stages; that it has been a successful collection, because it has given security to the conjunction of the educational community. It has allowed, therefore, to have these safe and open schools that we hope is still keeping this course, with the important vaccination data that we have, also between the teaching staff and not the teaching staff working at the center and in the field of the education of the class, and even with the growing amounts of vaccination between the adolescent students. Certainly, the vaccination campaign has opened a different scene for this school year, if well, while group immunity is not obtained, it will surely be necessary to preserve some preventive measures that we would certainly prefer not to have, but it is to prevent or stop the spread of new onades. And in any case, it seems correct to us that, in order to exempt from preventive quarantines and manage better the different protocols, therefore, it is possible to also have this vaccination information, which must obviously be confidential and must be secret. And, therefore, as I said earlier, it seems to us to be a correct, uncertain, positive measure to effectively manage the pandemic situation at the educational centres. And let's hope, yes, that the next step is to take this type of thanksgiving. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.172.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mrs María Elisa García spoke.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.173.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, "who doesn't know what he's looking for doesn't understand what he's finding," said Dr. Bernard, the father of experimental medicine. And that's just what happens to you with this virus. They have been giving blind sticks for months, taking irresponsible measures that directly attack fundamental freedoms, because as far as health is concerned, they do not know what they are looking for, nor are they able to interpret what they find. What you do know is that you try to devastate the person from his individuality to turn it into a subject at the service of the globalist cause. Little has to do with the virus and health. This goes from the usual, to separate, to segregate, to grant first-class and second-class quality certificates, to continue to have good and bad Catalans, to continue to have first-class citizens and second-class citizens. That's right, always the definition of good in your hands. The issuance of the book always controlled by the ruler. And that in a normal society would be a great danger. But in Catalan society, always exposed to arbitrariness and lawlessness, it is to shake. And as to control you have to know they use fear, the first animal instinct of the human, to obtain data, and it gives them the same jump if any ethical norm and respect for individual freedom. They have the alibi: fear of the covid. And towards that goal, nothing stops them, until they reach the children, the sanctasanctorum of any healthy society. Children who point to their companions in the yard. It's abhorrent. But let us focus purely on technical criteria, even if this is not the most important issue. They began by closing and insulating indiscriminately, ruining businesses and families, depriving themselves of work and, therefore, of the dignity of earning the livelihood of thousands and thousands of Catalans. They decreed perimeter confinements, which affected only certain days of the week or hours, as if the virus had a calendar and clock. You go step by step, step by step, so that the sedated and sedated society does not rebel, do not notice the height of the invasion that the person and individual control is being subjected to right now. And in that we find that your only goal right now is to undermine trust. The decree law that you presented in November, specifically point 8.4, was already a crude attempt to restrict the autonomy of parents to establish what they consider best for their families. But this new modification goes a step further, because it points to the minors, classifies them, tells them that their parents have put them in the good group or in the bad group, makes them target of other companions, a pure fuel for episodes of bullying, loss of self-esteem, increase of unease and uncertainty. It is to despise children directly, stealing all kinds of privacy and dynamizing their dignity. Yes, gentlemen, because the State cannot give dignity to the person, but it can try to take it away through coercion and unnatural imposition. As good totalitarians they have a lot of experience in pointing out, discriminating and destroying all those who think differently. They've been doing it for decades with those of us who stand against their separatist and progressive alienations. They have gone from creating first and second Catalans to creating first and second children. So I'd like you to know that VOX will make you responsible for all the wreckage they cause, for each and every one of them; every child pointed out, every child depressed, every child harassed for this reason. We will bring to light all situations, expose them in the public square and ask for responsibilities. We will not rest, and we will rebuild all that you and your progressive doctrine destroy. I am already in advance of this: if this decree is passed the results will be the subject of special follow-up and denunciation on our part, have no doubt. We will be highly belligerent in denouncing the consequences. In the face of their tyranny coercion, our individual freedom; in the face of their control and state interference, our family autonomy, and in the face of their despotism, our alternative of freedom and homeland. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.174.0	Next, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.175.0	Well; thank you, President – I will try not to cry so much. [[Rialles.]] Well, I say in advance, counselor, that we will abstain from voting on this decree and ask for its processing as well as the bill. Then I'll explain a little more why we want to ask for its processing as a bill, in case it's finally approved. First, start with a more general natural foresight debate. In the face of crises, before emergencies, and in particular health emergencies, as has been and is the case with covid-19, we consider – and I understand that we would agree – that the function of all governments is, for one band, and primarily, the provision; the provision of services and resources to deal with all those consequences, in this case, of the health crisis, with special emphasis on everything that is the intensification of the provision of resources and public services to deal with it. And also, we must not deny it, the function of control and restriction. Obviously, this also forms part of the functions of a government before a health crisis, and, in this case, of the restriction of control in order to effectively exercise adequate epidemiological prevention. Unfortunately – and we believe that this government is no exception – the government's responses are more likely to be weak in provision and very intensive in control and restriction, and sometimes one thing leads to another: as there is more fever in the policy of provision, more policies of control and restriction are accentuated. And we think that this decree, the philosophy of this decree goes in this sense: an intensification of control measures in a context, from our point of view, of important shortcomings from the point of view of which it is provided, in this case in the school system and in the socio-health system, for which it makes all the resources that are necessary to improve the conditions of approach from a pandemic like this in the school environment. And we could talk, for example, about everything that would heat up to substantially lower the rates to the classrooms. Well, another question we want to highlight. It is very important to be very cautious before all that is the dissemination of health data, if it is not absolutely justified from the epidemiological point of view and if it does not count on the voluntary consent of the persons concerned, because, otherwise, it can become a very worrying precedent that it can then be extended to other scenes of social control or, for example, of non-democratic labour control – I already know that this is not the case or is the intention – but it could be extended, on the basis of certain precedents, to measures of social or non-democratic labour control over what would be the rational response to health level. Therefore, what is required to control and prevent risks and transmission? What controls epidemiologic vigilance? Yes, but it also respects the fundamental rights, sense of doubt, from our point of view. And, well, another question to consider in the current context in which you propose this decree: to schools, families already provide vaccination data for their children, it is already information that comes from families. Another element to be taken into account: vaccination is not mandatory for now. Therefore, the proposal, the novelty proposed by the decree, interprets that, for the transfer of vaccination data from the Health Department to the directions of the centres, it affects the workers of the centres. This would require, from our point of view, a concertation_mark– that, if we have understood correctly, we do not know that it has been produced – with the workers and their representatives. On the other hand, it assigns to the addresses of the competent centres and functions corresponding to the health authority. Another issue to be taken into account is: it refers, the decree, to extra-curricular activities and education in the classroom, but, in change, then there is no concrete way in which this applies in this area, indicating a certain inconsistency. There would be an alternative – there would be an alternative – a good solution to this whole question, which would be voluntary consent, is to say, that everyone who is affected by this action can make a voluntary consent that, effectively, their vaccination data pass from the Health Department to the field of education. Taking into account, said all this – and I finish, President – the high level of vaccination that we have at these times in the entire population; fortunately, the low or very low incidence of positives in the school environment, we consider it a precipitated decree, that we need to think about it better, that we debate better and that we need more dialogue with the whole educational community. Therefore, we will abstain and ask, if appropriate, for processing as a bill. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.176.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.177.0	Well, good morning. We shall vote in favour of this motion for a decree. We understand that what is proposed here is to translate, pass, say, the data of the Department of Health in relation to vaccination in order to enable the classification of the student in two groups to guarantee preventive policies in the case of the detection of a positive. I believe that this is the amendment to Article 8 of the Decree and, therefore, we understand that it has no secret that this and we understand that it is necessary to be able to do the correct preventive policy in the case of the schools. Even so, however, the law that is amended, Article 8, is the Decree Law 41/2020, which spoke of more things than the transfer of data to educational centres – with the guarantee of data protection, I would just miss it! – he was talking about more things. And important things that you've been doing well as well that the Department of Education has come up at these moments to approach. For example, the law decree of the year 2020, which is now being amended, was beginning to give effect to economic benefits for entrepreneurs and self-employed workers in the lleure sector in order to be able to cope with the losses that the paralysis of the activity had caused them. What is very commendable and very positive, obviously, to ensure that that sector can continue to act once and for all, say, those levels of confinement and such. But, of course, we would have to remember that those aids which were approved, which were given, did not reach those who were to have arrived, because the workers in the industry turned out that they did not see anything about those aids which were used by the companies in relation to this subject. Some workers who, moreover, have the right collection frozen since the year 2018 and have faced employers, who are the ones who have rejected these aids, who do not unlock the right collection because they do not want to address any better type of the working conditions of their workers who are, in short, those who give the sector the activity of this education that the children and young people of this country receive. Although the Education Department takes account of this fact to understand that there are certain negotiations that are going on with the economic sectors that leave behind the representatives of the workers, but that are after the workers who have to carry out the relations, the conditions of the services are a pact with employers without any type of correspondence or guarantees that this will come to who actually does the work. It would be worth the thought. It's not the object of this decree, obviously, but since we're setting up a decree that talks about this subject, it's worth keeping it in mind. Just as the revision of the householder's decree is not being addressed. A socio-educational activity that also, in this pandemic marque, therefore, has its needs for implementation protocols. But, beyond and beyond the pandemic march, this order to eater to address it urgently already because it takes time to review and where questions related to the events, with the day, with the performance will be addressed. It is not a matter of talking only about what they eat, which yes, it is also about how they eat. Because the way they eat is also polite and also preventable. It would also be worth it if, at the time of making decrees of these characteristics, we put more things in place there, say, of the simple modification of Article 8, necessary to be able to guarantee the transfer of data and the protection of these data, but they understand that we are talking about a reality that is the educational task, the task also of the educational reader and that this ends up impacting on certain conditions of work that can be presented to them. And that 2020 we gave aid to companies in order to guarantee the provision of the service, but we did not guarantee that this aid also reaches the concrete people who provide the service and who are, in the end, the ones who must guarantee the highest quality of care for students and, moreover, apply preventive measures in case of need. Thank you very much. In any case, we will vote yes to the concrete measure that is porta avui.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.178.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.179.0	President, deputies and deputies... Counselor, the decree that presents us today, the modification of the decree that presents us today, is certainly an evolution of what was approved last year, 41/2020, and which actually complements, therefore, the need for communication of data that were then by diagnosis, or still, diagnostic data at that time, with vaccination data. And that are really necessary in order to be able to make an adequate follow-up of the quarantines that could be established at schools and educational centres. But he wanted to start..., or make a statement: we really have to put in value what has been done to the different schools throughout Catalonia. And I think that this is... keeping schools open throughout the past course has been a success, actually, I think it collects, even though we don't know how to do it. And really, in this case, both Catalonia and the rest of Spain have managed to keep schools open for a whole course, as well as the different restrictions and protocols to be applied. And here we always have to launch... in this case, so... or, in this case, validate and put in value, so, everything that families have done, everything that has done together with teachers and the education world and also children, that in the end are somehow the ones who have had to suffer the restrictions that we have seen or suffered. On this modification that is made of the decree, say, therefore, that this, say, coordination that is made between Health and Education is necessary. I do not know whether it could also be planned for other areas such as extra-curricular and secondary activities, in this case, which, as has also been said here, have suffered for a long time from the restriction of action, such as other areas and sectors of our society. But I see that possibly, so, in this case, it's much more complicated and its processing, its legal management is complex. There has also been talk, and here I also agree with some Members, so that the data must obviously be confidential, and Mr Riera said it, that they are very sensitive and that they must have, therefore, in some way very healing in the way their use is. Perhaps we could also have had this cure when the data from all the Catalans the U of October were used, which are still sailing through the network. Possibly, both sensitivities are compatible, but, obviously, we believe that these data should be completely confidential and that a great deal of care should be taken in how they are used. We'll do it and we've always done it with all the data, these and any other data. We also believe, and it has been said, that the current protocols to education, therefore, can or should be changed, I think we need to boost it. We can't leave areas of our space, of our society as education, so we're stuck with the opening that's done to other spaces and it's already been talked about all day, like reading spaces or night spaces that, by luck, have already opened up because they've also trigated a lot in what can be opened up. Finally, we are responsible and believe that we cannot oppose this decree. We'll abstain, Counselor. We believe it is necessary for the management of our schools. But she said and wanted to comment, answer or talk at some point about what Mrs. García said. Mrs. García, I understand a good part of what you say about individual freedoms, but the pandemic has existed, people have died and the coward has existed. And, therefore, I think that we can never deny it. And when it comes to globalism, it's the fault of what's going on and what's going on here, I, as a liberal, have to tell him that it's all the opposite. Before the autoarchy, before the defense of the autoarchy and of the self-consumption basically or of the self-management, I think we must give support. As liberals we have always done, from the free market and precisely from globalism, the freedom of association, the freedom of all people and the legal equality of all. I believe that these are the principles of any liberal democracy we have in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.180.0	Then, on behalf of the Group Mixt, you have the word Mrs Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.181.0	Thank you very much, President. To see, keeping schools open during a pandemic forces, I believe, yes or yes to give in to health care. We all want a safe environment for our children and what we need to do, to facilitate a safe environment for our children, is to give tools to the educational centers so that this environment is safe. And that's one more thing. Cessation of sanitary data is one tool and cessation of vaccination data is one more tool. Nevertheless, I have always been very critical of how Government has managed the opening of schools and managed the covid in schools and today I think it must also be critical. I've always believed that the educational centers were far ahead of the government in the implementation of protocols and in the making of decisions. They had to organize, or better to self-organize, sometimes without the added materials and having contradictory instructions that changed from one day to the next and they did very well and I think that they have the recognition of all. You told the educational centres that they could not ask for data on the vaccination of students and, at the same time, they told them that they did not want to confine the students of a position if they were vaccinated. This was a contradiction; it had no logic, because the educational centres could not verify whether a pupil of the class, a partner of a positive, was or was not vaccinated. Today we come to solve this problem and, as I say, we give them one more tool to make a good management and keep the schools, so, sure. But we're late and we're doing it with a constant sense of improvisation with the measures we're taking, which I think is a constant in how the whole issue of secure space and cove is managed at the schools. I doubted very much in what vote to make, if I had to abstain or if I had to make a vote in favour, because it seemed to me that it might not be the right procedure to make this decision, but I must admit that the urgency that we have today prevails, I think, because, as I say, it is late that the choices actually have these data, right? And, therefore, our vote will be in favour at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.182.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Tonia Batlle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.183.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good morning. As the counselor has explained to us, we are ahead of a modification that affects the correct functioning and development necessary for the management of the pandemic in the educational field. Let me make an incise in a motion for a resolution adopted in the general policy debate, which came to an end in this chamber a few weeks ago, referring to educational policies, with a point in which it was said: "Update and give continuity coordinated with the Department of Health of the covid protocols to the educational centers to ensure that course 2021-2022 can develop with face-to-face and security. Under Decree 41/2020, the Department of Health data communication was established at the addresses of educational centres, as recently explained, a much-needed measure for the agile management of the pandemic, always calling for maintenance by information confidentiality centres, as was said. During the past course, they went to apply all possible additional measures with the Department of Health for such a... that the schools were safe and able to ensure that they were open. It was thanks to this communication and to these protocols that a positive result was achieved. And that's where the department keeps working. To break transmission lines and apply the measures of containment of close contacts as quickly as possible and more appropriately, a management that made it easier for the past course as we know well to begin the cent_per_cent face and also ended there. In the past few days we've seen how little we're getting back to normal and in this room, so we have proof this week. Even though the mask will still accompany us for a while, second in five spaces, in order to reach full normality and avoid new waves, we need to continue with accurate management. Introduce vaccination data for children and children from schools that were not included until now in the area of collaboration between the Health Department and the centres must be done urgently, and that is why the amendment of this decree is being made today. Therefore, the department concerned must be empowered to make this communication, both with data from the vaccination of the student, the teaching staff, administration and services, as has been said. We could get into a debate, as there have been in some media the last few days on the right to privacy, since they are sensitive and personal data, but here we are in the law of data protection. It is a debate that has also emerged as a consequence of the pandemic in the last months on the weighting between the right to salvation or the country's economy. But the situation of emergence – deixi'mdir – health care forces the public authorities, from their respective responsibilities, to take all those organizational measures that help to improve the effectiveness and management of the control of this pandemic, adapting them, is clear, to the evolution of the situation. For all that I have put forward and for responsibility, as it cannot otherwise be, our vote will be in favour of amending the article of this decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.184.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.185.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies. In a context of pandemic, confinement, por and uncertainty, when a good part of the effects of covid-19 were unknown, when the teaching activity was interrupted as we know it, when the educational centre was forced to reinvent itself and had 1 million students who could not return to school for six months, the Government made a difficult but necessary decision. A face-to-face, equitable and non-segregative education was to be guaranteed. They understood education as a fundamental right of children and young people, who deserved a social and community environment with the highest security and quality. Quality education had to be guaranteed, and that's what he did. In fact, President Aragonès, at that time Vice President, defended that exceptional investments were needed because the Catalan school had a personalized attention and corrected these educational inequalities that the covid-19 had provoked. It was applied the additional economic Pla for the course 2020-2021, with an extra investment of 370_million euros to Education – not foreseen at that time in the presupposition 2020– ; 233 of these million for the contracting of the new teacher and educational staff; 33_millions for the Pla of better educational needs and 103_millions for the Pla of digital education. With these measures and other decrees as before, we allowed the Department of Education, Greetings, together with territorial coordination teams working together to detect and manage covid-19 cases. We can say that thanks to these political initiatives, the government's commitment to education and the updating of the education system was able to guarantee a basic right, such as the right to education, to all students. And through Decree-Law 41/2020 of 10 November of extraordinary measures of social character in educational centres and in the field of education in the reading and extra-curricular activities to deal with the consequences of covid-19, the Communication of Health Department data was established to the directions of educational centres as a measure of all necessary for the management of the most agile and diligent pandemic. Now it would take a step further, go further, and incorporate not only the communication of these diagnostic tests, but also the vaccination of covid-19. And that is precisely what regulates this decree that we are debating today. We need to take this step, and this decree allows us to incorporate, precisely, vaccination data to continue ensuring an education system that works in the best possible way in this country, because we can't leave anyone behind and we need to ensure that the choices are safe and cohesive. This is our bet, and we'll be sure of it. Therefore, as it could not be otherwise, our vote will be favourable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.186.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us then proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 20/2021. The vote begins. The result of the vote was 107 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 15 abstentions, and one person who did not vote. Therefore, the law decree has been validated. As there have been parliamentary groups that have called for their processing as the bill, we are now voting for their processing as the bill. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, 23 votes in favour and 111 votes against, the decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Decree-Law No 22/2021 of 5 October 2014 amending Article 211 of Law No 2/2014, of the 27th generation, of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures relating to the accreditation of a third language by the degree study of Catalan universities]] [[203-00011/13]] We pass the sixth point of the order of the day, the debate and vote on the validation of the Decree Law 22/2021, of October 5, of amendment of article 211 of Law 2/2014, of the 27 of generation, of fiscal measures, administrative... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Quiet, and please! They ask that the Members who are not to remain in the debate in advance of the vote should be absent from the chamber in silence. ... amending Article 211 of Law 2/2014 of the 27th generation, of fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures, relating to the accreditation of a third language by the degree study of Catalan universities. In the first place, the Research and University Advisor will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. There's a word from Mrs Gemma Geis, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.187.0	Bon dia deputats, deputades, President of Parliament, Mesa. We have put to the vote the validation of the law of flexibility of third language accreditation requirements. For us, as for the Government, this decree constitutes the policy to make effective the Government's will to face the reptile of country we have respect for the learning of foreign languages of students. Eventually, as the deputy, I already carried the decree of moratorium, and therefore, we take the leadership to transform. In this sense, there are three basic axes in the Department of Research and Universities. The first is to guarantee university autonomy in a coherent and non-a-la-carte manner. The second, to make politics of equity, to promote inclusion, to age for equal opportunities and to guarantee access to study, and in a university with an open gaze on the world, to guarantee the linguistic abilities of students in a third language to guarantee their occupation. We have to face the third language challenge as a country challenge, and in this sense, we will strengthen and strengthen collaboration with the Department of Education, so that we can face the learning of languages in an integral way and at all educational stages. As the university system we feel questioned and take action, and as the Research and University Councillor, we do not give up the share of responsibility that we have, but before entering the content of the decree, I would like to give account to the Parliament of its need and urgent approval, because it is an emergency measure. This decree reads as the origin of the law accompanying the assumptions of 2014, which urged all students of the degree of the Catalan universities to certify the knowledge of a third language of the language of the tests established to the PAU, and that from the course 2018-2019, the certificate of the B2 is required. Now, the law of 2014 raised a problem, and it was that it did not give the necessary legal coverage because it was necessary to modify all and each of the memoirs of the degrees, and that, in practice, did not produce in all cases. And this is a reality that knows the university community. There was not sufficient legal coverage to require the application of the B2 certificate. That's why. In 2018, the government put to the vote of this Parliament a moratorium on the accreditation of the B2 requirement. A moratorium that, if we approve the decree you today, will no longer have effects on students who started their studies in the 2018-2019 course, and who have completed this past course. This decree outlines the legal framework applicable to these students and also gives legal coverage to current and future students. So, let's move from certification to flexibility of mechanisms to accredit linguistic competence. We have come to make policies, and policies do not sustain themselves with moratoria. We have the repte and we take it. The university system looks to the world and the university system does not give up the knowledge of the third language. For this reason, last March, by unanimity, the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia approved flexibility in the accreditation mechanisms of third language knowledge. And in this sense, leave me alone, allow me to make a parenthesis. What's the CIC? The CIC is the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, it is the coordinating body of the Catalan university system, and it is the body of consultation and advice of the Government in the field of universities. It is a key and very specific instrument of Catalonia, of Catalan university policy, because all universities are represented there with their social councils and students, and therefore it is also important for Parliament to know this function of agreement, consensus and coordination space of the CIC, because it establishes and does these functions of coordination of the university system. In the CIC, it was unanimously approved, last March, to make the accreditation, sufficiency certification and third language knowledge mechanisms more flexible. Flexibility is not giving up, but it means that it will be possible for universities, together with the CIC, to work to develop these third language knowledge mechanisms. And, in addition, let me also inform you that last week we had another meeting of the CIC with the rectors and students and the group of organizations, social councils that are part of the CIC, and we have already started working on how to develop this decree, and so on, how to develop this flexibility. The government, from the government, is compromised with the skills and linguistic knowledge of students of Catalan universities and with their training for their entry, for their..., to ensure their employment in the world of work. And why do I flexibilize? Why the language sufficiency will not be credited only with the B2 certificate, but the door will be opened to do so through assignments that continue to take place in a third language, the door will be opened to do so through the presentation of end-of-grade jobs in a third language, and the door will be opened to do so, also in practice in foreign firms or also with other mechanisms in virtue of university autonomy. Therefore, this flexibility is to open the door to which this linguistic knowledge can be believed through other mechanisms. Imagine yourself, for example, a student of Tourism who can present the final degree work in English. So it seems to me that it is also a good way to credit this linguistic knowledge and to age for its occupation, for example. There'd be a lot of other cases. Therefore, this flexibility, moreover, will also allow us to include more languages, more languages that can be credited as the third language also in coordination with PAUs, and therefore, not only the English language but other languages that can also be interesting depending on the profiles of the students or the type of degrees, of the teachers they want to access. And not only that, but that's also important because we have to work in the framework of inclusive policy making, that this decree will also allow us to take into account the personal realities and various abilities, too, of the students, which until now was uniform, and therefore cannot be attended to any specific circumstances on the part of the students. Therefore, this decree allows us to put the needle in the language learning at the university, and not just that, but as the government we will collide and coordinate. What we will do in the presupposition of the next year is to increase up to three times the presupposition that the Government of Catalonia devoted to the knowledge of third languages. I think it's important, apart from the facts, to put in support and put in presuppositional endowment. And in this sense, with the language services of the universities and with the rectors and with the vice-rectors we will work as this presuppositional increment, which we will triple, allows us, therefore, to maximize this knowledge and these possibilities of students in the framework of graduate students. So, ruling is making decisions. To rule is not to dilate problems, but to lead them and take them with force. And we ask ourselves the present and future of our young man and, therefore, as the Research and University Councillor, as the Interuniversity Council which approved this decree last March, we hope that the Members of this Parliament will accompany us at this juncture that we assume as the university system to strengthen the knowledge of the third language. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.188.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to fix their position, with a five-minute round of words, according to what we agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesman. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for the Advancement of Women, Congresswoman Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.189.0	Good morning, Councillor Geis; good morning, deputies and deputies. In 2013, Councillor Mas-Colell announced his will or the will of his Government to establish the compulsory B2 level to complete a degree at Catalan universities. And that was done with a bill of measures in 2014, amending a point-by-point article. We already told him that we didn't seem to do it that way, that it was a very complex and very deep topic as to do it for other lives, but obviously, at that time we didn't listen to everything and that obviously we share that objective, as we share it today. We share the point that our students come from the university with this level of B2. Then, in that 2014 debate, we already told them that it was very hasty to ask for obligatory then, and we made a statement because it was 2018. The way things are when time goes by, it's that reality is very coughing. What happened? What arrived 2018 and not, counsel, not the Government, was the Socialist Group that entered a bill after that during de_mesos neither the Government made cases, neither the Ceucate nor the Rectors, for that moratorium. [[Some applause.]] We're entering the moratorium... which ended up passing what we had already demanded in 2014, and that moratorium carries us through today. Why? Because the government has done nothing at this time, counsel. You're talking about the Department of Universities and Research, but it's part of a government, a government, plus, six years ago it's ruled. They have done nothing– they have done nothing. And what do we see? So look, that in 2018, when we presented that bill's proposal with my partner, Esther Niubó, who is responsible for education, we presented a proposal for a resolution with policies – with policies – and resources to, precisely, get that our students, not to the university but from the primary, can go training and get that level of English. And what happened? That motion for a resolution was approved, like so many things we approve in this House, but it did not come to an end. And we haven't done anything at this time. We don't have any more language teachers or resources for the permanent formation of our primary education teacher, nor do we have more place in official language schools. That is to say, this Government has not made any effort – no effort – in policies and resources to achieve that objective that the Counselor Mas-Colell can achieve. They've done nothing. And we can... here, if we look at it with some data, we can see it. And I want to share them because what's going on here today is big, huh? It's pretty big, when all day we lay down in Europe's capdamont or in a globalised state. So, look, listen, education... to get equal opportunities we have to bet on education, and education is one of the best social lifts. If our students don't know English it's hard for them to compete in a knowledge society and in a world every time more globalized. And we, in accounts of still demanding or asking for resources, what we do is resign. It doesn't seem like a scrap. Miri, some dice. Year 2008, Question of the linguistic uses of the population: only a 33,9_percent of the major population of fifteen years has knowledge of English – 33,9. Miri, in another..., data from the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training of the 2018-2019 course, only the sixty-u_per_cent of the children of children, three-six years, English course, twenty-three points less than the global of Spain. We always want to compare, so here we lose and enough. But it's that, besides, if we compare this three- to six-year childhood education to public education or concerted education, it's difficult: to the public only 48,6_per_cent and to the concerted one 86,7. I mean, keep your segregating. You're still generating two speeds, a two-speed company where, what you can pay for, beyond the school, you can devote resources to improving your English level and what you don't have. This is the company you've been generating since 2012, where, by the way, Counselor Mas-Colell began to detail the universities and today we still keep between fifteen and twenty per cent of fewer resources compared to 2010. That's what happened. And you, who have not devoted any policies or resources in all these years to English, now tell us to give it up, "no, let's make it more flexible. I get it. The Rectors say: "Listen, I get students with little English level. I can't stop giving college degrees because I don't have that level of English. If the problem isn't with the universities, they've done more than the resources, they're suffocated, by the way, since 2012. Yeah, yeah, and as long as they can do that with the head, the Councillors of Junts, they can already... [[Widow's remorse.]] The figures: €1,000_million in 2010, 850 in 2020. And I tell you one thing, the national platform for the society of knowledge forced every year, since 2020 – the Tremosa advisor knows – to lay 80_millions. They're already two years late. See if we can make this year 2021 jump. So you're giving it up. We share the object, but you are renouncing it and therefore we cannot share all of this decree with you. We understand this flexibility and we share the negity and anxiety of the rectors, but it seems to me that the government today is approving a frac and giving up the ambition that Mas-Colell put here on the table eight years ago. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.190.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.191.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been seven years since the Government imposed the B2 level of foreign languages, of third languages, as a requirement for obtaining the university degree and today we are told that it will no longer be necessary; another example of the incompetence of the management of the Government of the Generalitat : order, counterorder, disorder. Let us not forget that the university, from its origins, is characterized by its universal spirit, critical, tolerant, plural of respect and effort. Therefore, the framework of freedom, plurality and ideological and political neutrality is the necessary and essential for intellectual and scientific activity to develop in a good way, without fear of conditions or institutional restrictions. Unfortunately, the directors of the Catalan public universities have fulminated this principle of ideological neutrality and institutional policy, as recently stated by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, condemning the University of Barcelona for violating this fundamental principle. I also take the opportunity to sympathize with the S'ha Afinet youth organization again! , following the attack suffered two weeks ago at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, starring communist totalitarian hordes, as [[remorse of voice and some applause]] neither the rector of the Autonomous University nor Consteller Geis have dared to condemn this brutal attack on freedom and, therefore, on the essence of the university. In VOX we advocate for freedom and the defence of university autonomy, as it is the best basis for promoting competitiveness and excellence. Although we are going to abstain in this vote, because we are in favour of parliamentary debate and we want this decree to be passed through a bill, we believe that this change is positive: it will allow universities to choose the method that they consider most appropriate for pupils to master a foreign language, either through a greater number of subjects taught in third languages, from practices in foreign companies, from stays in other universities, from final jobs in foreign languages, from the requirement of the level or certificate that each university considers appropriate; all this will ultimately help universities to position themselves, to have added value and to compete for the best possible training in languages. It is necessary – it is necessary – university autonomy in the formation of third languages, but also this need has to be accompanied by a regular review by a qualified body as could be, for example, the University Quality Agency, which checks the solvency achieved by the students. However, the problem is structural, it is fundamental: the current Catalan educational model does not encourage adequate teaching of third languages – nor, by the way, of the Spanish language, the language of the majority of Catalans and, on the other hand, a minority in the school and in the Autonomous Administration – causing the study of languages to depend excessively on the extracurricular ones. In addition, the overall framework of current education policies ridicules effort and excellence. For example, LOMLOE allows promotion in courses, passing through course, in ESO, with any number of subjects – no matter – suspended, and access to selectivity with a subject suspended in high school. The results of this fourth year of ESO's basic competitions have dropped in mathematics and English. Tests to gain access to the Children's and Primary Education careers were only passed by fifty_per_cent of the examiners. Moreover, according to the report of detection of level of idioms between students of the new access to the Autonomous University of Barcelona from 2009 to 2019 only fifty_per_cent has the appropriate level of English when arriving at the university. If we look at grants for the promotion and use of languages at university level, we will see how those granted by Interlingua were distributed in this way: fifty_and_three_per_cent for projects in Catalan; forty_and_four, for projects in English; three_per_cent for projects in other languages; and, oh, surprise, a zero_per_cent for projects in Spanish– total, barely 540_million people speak it in the world. Well, finally, in the debate on the science bill in Catalonia in which we are immersed, there is a priority, and it is that of internationalization, and it seems very good to us; it is paradoxical that the university is intended to be internationalized and that more resources are used in the learning of Catalan than in any other language. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.192.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.193.0	Well, thank you, President. Members and Members, he will advise, today, therefore, announce that we will vote yes. We're going to vote yes, and we're going to do one of our own reviews, because we think there's a lot of work left to do, right? And I just need to review what this Law 2/2014 said, that what I was trying to do is that the 2014-2015 course all the students who go to college can, at the end, believe this third language with a level equivalent to B2. He also said that the competent departments in the field of universities and teaching should coordinate the necessary measures and the implementation schedule to facilitate students' access to the university with third language skills, and all that... has passed many years and has not passed. Just as we've also seen as the university's premise, so, as has been said, 2010 here has gone far and far; therefore, this effort of this law has not been made, has it not? , that the one I intended was to implement this third language. And for the way there appeared this moratorium, a moratorium approved in his parliamentary office in 2018, which he intended, therefore, for four years to make this moratorium because the students who are enrolled in the university the 2018-2019 course already complicated this requirement of the third language with B2. This moratorium was approved in due course and at the last hour so as not to leave the students and also the rectors and rectors of the university, who are obliged, if not, to fail to comply with their own Catalan law. And today with a few more months of anticipation – that's true – but we're back to the same thing, right? It ends a few months from now, and we're back in a situation where the rectors and rectors don't know what to do and that a part of the study, therefore, is very nervous and manifest. And what we do, then, is approve of this law decree, which is fine, isn't it? , because it is true that it relaxes these measures and the level of B2 and flexibility, but this university autonomy that you have not told us has not just convinced us, because after looking at the different universities we find important differences and that they should not be, because they do affect equity or equality between students. Depending, for example, on whether they are studying at the UDG or studying at the Polytechnic University of Catalonia, they will find some that the UDG will have to obtain the B2, as it is – now, if they do not change it – and other universities, for example, making new recognized credits already have this third language sufficiency. But at other universities for now no; if lshi asks for twelve credits and, moreover, to supplement with the B2 exam. And, therefore, that can't be. University autonomy yes, but that all students, are enrolled in one university in Catalonia or the other, must have equality in this process. And that's what needs to be done. And that's why this criticism is, to put the government... you're new to this place. Consider, therefore, that under the assumption that it is necessary to increase the university's assumption. Both to the university and to the research it is necessary to take measures that return us to a university that is patenting, and a lot; that a university that has very adjusted assumptions, that the year passed, as you know, saved with the extra cove assumptions that came, but that this year still some universities do not know how they will pay the bills at the end of the year. And the bills mean the names, and that takes into account the precariousness of a lot of university professors. So, there's a lot of work to do, there's a lot of money to invest and, as you said in 2018 regarding the moratorium itself, the resources have to be put in. You said 2018: "You will have to put in enough resources because, if not, we approve things... Of course, and now we find ourselves in 2021... I tell you what you said: "You will have to put in enough resources to ensure that what we approve can be done, because, if not, you are toast to the sun. And, obviously, here we also ask, therefore, the defense of Catalan language as a vehicle. At least the eighty_per_cent of the classes we believe should be in Catalan and the twenty_per_cent, therefore, in other languages. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.194.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomera, has the word Lord Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.195.0	Well, today we're watching a debate that the truth is that it's the chronicle of an announced disaster. That is to say, every time we start the legislature in Catalonia since 2014 we ask ourselves how long it will take to come the decree that repeals the obligation to hold the B2 or if we extend it. Why? Because he didn't do the job. Some objectives have been set, which is that students, when a university title is passed, have a B2 level of English, but no effort has been made to guarantee the students' right to access this level of English. And the right to higher education and, therefore, to have a university title is not just the right of the people who have an English title, who have been able to do most or pay for a private English academy, because there are very few publics, or stay abroad, whether Erasmus or some other kind of state. And, therefore, the right to hold a university title is the conjunction of the student and students of Catalonia, and not only of those who have had resources or the fate of being able to learn English for other lives. What happened? This was approved in 2014 and at the end of four years, well, three years, that's to say, when the students were already in the third grade they realized that more than one quarter could not hold the university title, because I couldn't believe that they had B2 level of English, and it had to be a four-year extension. And from 2018 until 2022, neither has the work been done and, therefore, in order not to put at risk the fact that students can access their university title after having studied their entire career, we are obliged, the Government is obliged to repeal the requirement of the B2 title. That we always talk about English because it is the third priority language in the academic field, but in reality it is a question that concerns any third language that the student chooses to learn. And from then on it will be the universities that will make the effort to believe that they have a sufficient level of English, if they teach some classes in English, to certify through the students who have been abroad that they have access to believe that they obviously have the level in the corresponding language, or to do, for example, the final jobs of degree and the exhibitions of the final jobs of degree in English or for other lives. And it's obvious that this is a better option than still demanding a title that doesn't have a lot of college in Catalonia and that it's better to make accreditations more flexible in English and that all the universities can cheat on a few different ways to believe that level, that when you get to the quarter of a career they say: "Well, yes, you've done four years of architecture, but since you don't have B2 you can't be an architect anymore. Because we place the students in an area of defence, for a very simple question: because the rights have to generate rights, and there was a duty to learn English up to the B2 level and there was no right to do so in the University of Catalonia. And that was an obvious hardship and, moreover, limited the ability of many students in this country, where there was also an obvious class and economic resource pool, to be able to take 'a superior title in our country. Arriving here, I think it's obvious that Catalonia needs to improve the learning of a third language, and I think it's an object that's still in force with the country. What do we need? We believe that, as a minimum... That is to say, there is a part of the debate that goes to primary education, to children's education and to secondary education; I think that so far, this debate has been very timid in Catalonia – in other communities, it has also been raised, in our opinion, with certainly incongruities, as the debate that they have had of bilingualism in the Community of Madrid – but, as a minimum, we plant it in the university system. Enguany, you've presented assumptions. There should be a match on the assumption that guarantees that universities can guarantee English learning to their students, whether they have B2 or not. If it's an object that students come up with a level enough English, we need to be able to enclose this learning in whether or not the universities. And I don't want to say – and with this I'm done – that organic chemistry is done in English, because, if you don't know English, you won't learn organic chemistry or you won't learn English for organic chemistry in English. It means that universities need tools to tutor and ensure English learning during the four-year period that a student goes to university, or during the five-year period that a student goes to university, and that this requires economic resources, human resources, educational resources, etc., that goes beyond what is assigned in English. And, therefore, let us once again go to Catalonia that only those who can pay for a private English academy can access to know English. We will vote yes, but we believe that, in view of these assumptions, as a minimum, this discussion must be held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.196.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Joan García, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.197.0	President, Members, Members, Councillor, I think it's been said, and I think we're in a very complex situation. Initially, the objectives of language policy at universities, or at least the assurance and accreditation of a third language at universities, was an objective that we could somehow share all of them. And I think, as in so many other things, so the good guys, somehow, so they have to take a job back. There has been talk about it, and in fact, we have experienced some of it over the last few years in this Parliament: 2014, so this good, supposed..., or good initiative but without accreditation or without being able to count on resources when it was done or approved. And then there's two, say, with two exams, right? , one 2018, and, now, another. And, in the end, what we get or what we get is that the thing that was planted couldn't be done, or it won't be done – it couldn't be done and it won't be done – and that, as it will, surely, so we also have our doubts that it can be executed. For us..., and we have to say, because you, Counselor, were talking about an open look, about what we have to pull forward, so to take a lot of account or be at the side of the students. It seems very good to me, they are very good words, as there were in 2014, but it is that we believe that time has been wasted, or so, we have not been able to implement a coherent language policy. And when I speak of coherence, I no longer speak only of universities, it is that the whole system of education – and this City has said it many times – must be or must start from a trilingual component – we have said it. We need to match the two languages that Catalans speak every day on the street and that everyone sees and listens to and "enjoys, in fact, the two languages, the català and the castella, as many Members and as I do myself, "enjoying one language and another, trying also, obviously, to know a third language from which we are children, from the beginning of the education system. We can't wait for the universities to implement all this. And that's why resources are falling. Obviously, there's been talk about the assumptions, and that's really where this is going to work. Fem-ho, because, if not, in the end we also talk about university autonomy, but university autonomy doesn't work either if it doesn't have resources. So, university autonomy, which many times for us..., we question, first, that it is autonomy, that it is free and that it is university. Many times, as we have seen in the last great events of freedom that we have experienced in the Autonomous Region, where autonomy, so to speak, university has been quite questionable; or that letter that all the Rectors have made – giving support to Mr Puigdemont, escaped from Spanish justice – and that we do not know very well why they have made or had to make this joint letter – in freedom, supposedly, in freedom. But, well, leaving this – leaving this – aside, that it's obvious that we question autonomy and university freedom many times, we can't have initiations of this type, I can't implement them afterwards, and now we can't come here and say that we can't do it and that the universities will do it, and we'll see with five dollars they'll do it and in what way. And as we would believe that all universities put the same levels to all students, so to speak, that we have different backgrounds, including territorially, with some fairness. And, for another band already, it will advise – to finish – we can also say that we have..., or we want a multilingual or trilingual system at universities and then – and I will say this..., I think that many times I have said it, and we know each other a while ago and I say it again – continually attack the freedom of use of a language that is as much ours as the castle. We can't defend it, we can't defend the two formulas. If what we want is – and he spoke before the autorty – autarchy or a certain linguistic luddism to the universities, then you defend it. We want to truly defend the internationalization of universities and their openness and globalization. And, obviously, that's what we'll do with this defense of the three languages at the universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.198.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.199.0	Thank you, President. Well, we consider that this decree has aspects that are necessary, but not positive. And I'll explain the difference. You need it because, effectively, they are even urgent, but they are not positive in the measure that is no longer the explicit recognition, now yes, of a glaring failure not of educators in Catalonia, but of political planners. That's what you're saying. So much he obsessed with immersion and it turns out they forgot trilingualism. And now there's no more of them left than recognizing that they haven't hit their targets. And they do it in a way, I insist, flashing and leaving their shame in the air. Therefore, we will abstain in the measure that we share some of the aspects of the decree, but there are no other aspects that we cannot actually assume either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.200.0	Thank you. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gloria Freixa has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.201.0	Okay. Thank you, President. He will advise, first of all, today we announce the vote in favour of this decree amending the law of 2014 which called for this accreditation of a third language by the students. We would like to put in value, above all, what the same councillor has commented on the unanimity that has had to take this decision as well and to finish working and drafting this decree. And this unanimity that has existed in the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, which means, as the Councillor said, that there are all the universities and also the students represented, means that when there is consensus it is much easier that it is effective. It is a decree, we would also like to say, that defends university autonomy. The previous law, of 2014, has been commented for many of you, established as a mandatory measure to credit this level of the third language to this B2 certificate that we are talking about today. But, listen, there are many other ways to credit the knowledge of this third language. Therefore, this university autonomy allows us to really know the university, who really knows the careers, the skills, the professional exits, and who establishes the mechanisms of recognition of this language. Therefore, we understand that all this can only be positive things to ask for approval of this decree. And we don't want to forget to put it into consideration and to give thanks also to the efforts made by the universities – they have also recognized other political parties – in this knowledge of the other languages posting assignments in other languages, especially in English, including providing documentation in different languages. There are assignments in which documentation is distributed between four and five languages which, therefore, all that does is help in this knowledge of languages. It is also true that we have, as she said, a globalized, international university, an open university. And therefore, this also helps our students to be familiar with these other languages. For what it does to equal opportunities, that's something that also takes care of this decree. It is true that there may not be enough, but it is true that the fact of doing another assignment, assignments in other languages, of being able to do so too, therefore, this final or degree job in other languages, means a free cost and therefore, also, no? So it helps those inequalities, so they don't follow. We believe it is a good correction measure of the inequalities that arise in this area of language knowledge. Another aspect to be highlighted. We would also like to say, that there has been no talk here, that it is the exemptions that are established for certain students who have difficult difficulties for the relaxation of linguistic skills in foreign languages. Why does that make us find here, then, a way of justice, right? , for all those who may have this degree if they cannot achieve this level of language either. Well, we work together for Catalonia to improve the language skills of our university students, and that's why we think it's because, above all, it has a theme, isn't it? , a translation in terms of employability. The other day we had a meeting with a technology company and asked him: "Who are the two things...? So, "What's the most important thing you do when you hire young workers, to babies who have just finished the race? It was a very powerful company in the Basque Country with a very important subsidiary in Catalonia and they told us two things. The first, that this student who finishes his career right now has taken care of many things, that has done many different things. And second, speak English as the català speaks. Therefore, we... sometimes they talk about here as if we don't know the reality, but it is that we also have children, children who study in Catalonia and we are very aware of who are their needs. We agree with what they have also commented here on the need for this to go to one between the Department of Education and the Department of Universities. We'd appreciate it if you knew the work of the University Department, but we'd still be working on it. We will continue to work on a global, comprehensive program in all school systems and also to do so in a coordinated and joint manner. But to keep moving forward on two very important things. Because everyone here has said that it should be done, as it should be, but no one has talked about what their support will be to the assumptions that the Government of Catalonia will present, that they will give the measures so that we can do this type of action. And neither did they talk about the tax deficit because they don't like it. But this fiscal deficit could translate, it could translate into the transfer of grants with the economic endowment that we really need. Well, quite simply, I'm running out of time, giving support to this decree because we believe, as we said, that it will give response to the needy. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.202.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.203.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Thank you, Members of Parliament. You will allow me, continuing the line of Congresswoman Gloria Freixa, to answer a question that has been asked here to the Chamber. The same is true of the fact that when Members of the Socialist Party come out here to say that there is no work to be done, they ask them to comply with two sentences of the Constitutional Court on the transfer of university scholarships, which would have been sent by now too, would have been sent by now. [[Greetings.]] Here, you see, we talk a lot, and talking is important. So important is that those who have a word threaten and persecute some of ours. But as important as talking is also so much as stopping us from listening and stopping us from thinking about how it's working on what we're doing here. Because, in the end, the most important thing is what is going on outside and outside is that, day by day, it certainly increased the level of English knowledge and increased thanks to the good work of the professionals, the good work of the teachers and the efforts of the students. What we're doing here in Parliament is the result of stopping for a moment listening to what's going on outside, listening to the university world. And, therefore, I think it is up to the Council to congratulate the Council for having done this exercise, for having exposed itself to going out here and trying to lay down the norm in reality to help move forward. After a rule, therefore, that required a certificate, a title and that certainly, therefore, the requirement was very nice, but everyone knew that it was not feasible and the proof is that we went with the moratorium until today, what is being done today with this decree is to find a stable solution. The ear has stopped, the message has been understood, and there is a decree which kept the ambition and the hope of the norm, which helps to make a motor to continue working for the knowledge of a third language, the angle, and also of others; that this is also an element of this decree which leaves in evidence some who have come out here with the speech prepared – it seems of blurry, of manual – on trilingualism and that, in change, we are talking about a norm that went much further, that speaks of many more languages. So it shows, once again, that this trilingualism is nothing more than trilerism, to which we are also accustomed. This decree, in a much more realistic way, places different options in each case, that would apply the universities, and that they don't have to be different, because fortunately there are dialog spaces, such as the Interuniversity Council, that will surely help to share experiences and that the result – as a guarantee of the rights of the students – is the best possible. An accreditation is required, but this accreditation does not only associate with a certificate, as the counselor has said, it can be completed with a state, with experience, with free courses for those students who have not had access... and who have not had the same opportunities. And it ended with the moratoria, of course, which is the obligation we have here – it is the obligation – and we must offer them to all young people who are already quite uncertain..., who are already very unstable in their day-to-day lives. Therefore, for our part, it is obvious, therefore, that we will vote in favour of it, that we believe that it is a good way of doing things, a good way of acting and, therefore, that we hope that it will be approved and that, above all, we reflect that the standards that we make here follow standards that can be applied and that really help to transform. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.204.0	So, after the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let's move on to the vote on Decree 22/21. The vote begins. With the result, which obtained 81 votes in favour and 51 abstentions, the Decree Law 22/2021_has been validated. Now I ask the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to process this decree as a bill. [[Pause.]] Yes, since there are two groups in the chamber that demand it, we will now vote for its eventual processing as the bill. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, with 20 votes in favour and 113 votes against, Decree Law 22/2021_is validated and will not be treated as draft Law. And we suspend the session until this late, two-quarters of four, as predicted. Thank you. [[The session is suspected to be a quarter of two in the middle and two minutes and is taken two quarters of four in the late and three minutes. She chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the secretary-general, the major and the late Antoni Bayona Rocamora.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.205.0	Very nice late. Let's resume the session. [[Proposition of democratic memory law in Catalonia]] [[202-00013/13]] Let's welcome the public to accompany us to the debate of the points of this late, feel the first of them the debate of the totality on the proposal of the law of democratic memory of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, to present this legislative initiative, Mr Ferran Pedret, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the word "for a period of two minutes", as we agreed at the next meeting of the Spokesperson. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.206.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... also thanks to the memorialist entities that accompany us today from the public gallery. Let me, first of all, honourable Members, honourable Members, refer to the assault of the Faixist squadrism on yours of the CGIL which took place a few days ago in Rome. And not only to express our firmest condemnation of this assault and our solidarity with the companies and companies of the CGIL, but also to make it the lead thread of the first part of my intervention, because it is not a coincidence, that passed, nor is it a side event, and you have to see with the debate that my parliamentary group today subjects you to consideration. First of all, it's not random. A democratic society is not only conformed to its political institutions, which are contained in its constitutional texts, its constitutionality bloc, but also conformed to the social and political organizations that adhere to the democratic principle, and is also instrumental in the widespread adherence of its citizens to this democratic principle. It is not by chance, therefore, that the Faixist Squadrism has sorted, as the object of its attack, a class organization, organized work, as is the main union of the country. Because unions, organized work, class organizations, are one of the foundational pillars of any social and democratic right-wing state, and, moreover, are the most formidable opponent of fascism. And fascism knows very well. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. Second of all, it's not a side event, it's not an anecdote; it's been a long time. This is the latest and we've got him alive in memory, and we've seen the rebuff demonstration, the unity demonstration of all Italian trade unionism. But it's been a long time since things happened, and it's been a long time since there are people who say they're all cases. It wasn't a case of Utoya's tempt, the murder of young Social-Democrats' drawings. It wasn't a fact that the murder of Labour MP Jo Cox wasn't a fact. Anti-Egyptian attacks in central Europe are not done, as were the anti-Egyptian attacks at the end of the 1990s, with an Italian minister of the Interior – I think Maroni said – who somehow excused them, huh? It is not by chance the incendiary attacks on refugee centres in Germany. It is not by chance that attacks on children's centres in Catalonia are carried out on stone. It is not by chance the increase of homophobic attacks in our country. As it is not by chance the increase of anti-Semitism, for example, in France, or the increase of Islamophobia. It's not random, that's all. It forms part... or the violence of Alba Daurada, or the volunteers of the extreme Bulgarian right, who patrol the border with Turkey. No, it's just random. It has long been an attempt on our continent by the most reactionary forces, the forces of the extreme right, to erode, to laminate, to corrupt the institutions of our democracies, to break all bonds of solidarity between citizens and citizens, and thus to prove, through the methods that they have always used, that they are those of verbal violence, in the first term; those of the assignment of scapegoats, in the second term; intimidation, in the third term, and, in the later term, violence..., comes from being controlled by our societies. And, as we know from history and as we have memory, they won't get it. And that's why I'm telling you that you have to deal with the debate we have today, because ours is a non- militant democracy, unlike other European democracies. Ours is a democracy that admits that there are speeches and organizations contrary to the same principles as the Constitution. But this does not turn it into a defenceless democracy: it has, among many other things, memory policies, which obviously find its best vehicle through memory laws that ensure that these public memory policies are independent of the political will of the government to return. Then there may have been an intensification of the presuppositional efforts and the gains that lie ahead, but the laws ensure that this goes beyond the political will of one government or another. Our parliamentary group brings them to debate a bill that they claim is that Catalonia is a pioneer in democratic memory laws. It was 2007, with the law of creation of the democratic memorial; it was 2009 with the known law; it was 2017 with the law of legal reparation of the victims of the Francoism, and it was also 2009 with a law that, even though it is its temporal scope beyond what we consider to be the sphere of democratic memory, it is also very relevant for what this sphere of democratic memory, such as the law of 2020, makes of the enforced disappearance of minors. Therefore, we have abundant legislation in the matter, but it is fragmentary, necessarily, because each of these laws addresses a concrete question, and therefore it is inconsistent and lacks coherence. And there is the possibility, we have the possibility to make all of them a text, giving us an integral law in the matter of democratic memory that is coherent and that, to say it colloquially, fills the blanks, also, between these different aspects that are already regulated and that put us on the rise of other autonomous communities, such as, for example, the Valencia Country, the Balearic Islands, Navarre or Andalusia, which already have integral laws of democratic memory. And we are aware that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has a bill of law that has a similar intention. And we are a grateful parliamentary group, and I think it is the corresponding one, to thank here the groups that support the Government that have not presented a message to the totality in this proposal of law that my parliamentary group today defends, because we have been able to share – and I also want to express from the Faristol – the hopes that my parliamentary group has in dealing with the draft law of the Government, when this has entered the Register of Parliament. Because if anything has guided our action in the matter of democratic memory in this Parliament, it is the will of consent, the widest possible. And I also have to say that I don't know what the capture of each parliamentary group will be either in this debate or in this legislature, but we have been very pleased..., and I was particularly pleased to be able to reach agreement even with political forces that have traditionally not supported memory laws. In 2017, for example, the legal reparation of the victims of the Francoism gave support to a wide range of parliamentary groups, ranging from the own CUP to the PP, eh? , going all the way through the rest of it. It was approved unanimously. And I think this has to be one of the objectives of good memory policies. So, I said... first full law of memory. What they claim with their contents is to expedite the process of localization activities, exhumation and identification of victims. Give greater initiative capacity to start these jobs to the family members of victims, universities, research centres and groups and memorialist entities, while asking the Generality to initiate these tasks. It commends the creation of a general hundred victims that went beyond what was created in 2019, which was for people who had suffered a forced disappearance, but the category of victims of the franchise went further, because there were many, the forms of repression. It incorporates a good public policy, such as the DNA bank and the genetic identification program, into its own law. Set the law which are the rights of victims and the Generality's obligation to meet them, advise them and accompany them; let us not say that it is not done, but settle the law as an obligation. It protects the documentation related to the historical memory better, it reinforces the right of access to the archive and documents. A catalogue of places and itineraries of democratic memory is established; a hundred buildings, works and jobs carried out through forced labor; a register of associations of victims and memorialist entities. The role of the memorial movement is enhanced and the activity of the memorial entities is promoted by the Generality. It is also asked the public administrations that, in the field of their competitions, do their utmost to prevent and prevent the performance of public acts that involve discrediting, underscoring or humiliating victims or the exaltation of military rebellion or Francoism. The regulation on symbols and vestiges contrary to democratic memory is reinforced and clarified. And, at the end of the day, it contains for the first time a sanctioning regime to make the provisions of the law effective. We, as we have said, call on the joint parliamentary groups; we have, let us say, more confidence in some than in others, but I will not advance them anything that is not the object of the debate afterwards. We invite everyone not to convert memory policies into a liberating weapon, not to trivialize memory policies and to do this exercise of protection of the democratic principle that is to keep the memory of a time when freedoms were threatened, first, and then cancelled. Therefore, we ask everyone and everyone to support this parliamentary initiative. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.207.0	Next, and in order to defend the whole issue presented for the VOX Group, the Member of Parliament, Joan Garriga, has the word, for a period of two minutes, which is what we agreed to at the Board of Spokespersons. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.208.0	Thank you, President. Socialists are presenting us with a proposal for a law on democratic memory, and I recognize that it is strange for me to legislate memory. Memory is the ability to remember previous facts, and this is very personal. In the face of the same fact, the individual memory and assessment are different according to the lived and the circumstances of each one. For example, a lot of opinions in Catalonia speak to the generality of the companies, saying that he was a thief, a murderer, a striker and that he did much harm to Catalonia. And I'm sure that, for example, the president's wing, Josep Aragonès and Montsant, spoke very well of the Franco, the National Movement and the organic democracy, because they allowed him to be mayor in Pineda de Mar, at his village, from 1966 until 1987, already in democracy of parties. I is typical of despots and totalitarians to arrogate the truth of historical interpretation and impose a memory on history. Any totalitarian regime that is valued the first thing it does is regulate the interpretation of historical facts, censor different opinions. Mixing law, memory and history seems risky, pretentious and, ultimately, a gross error. And let's make some history, because they insist on legislating about it. We will review some objective facts of the Second Republic, the PSOE and the Generalitat of Companies, d'Esquerra Republicana. The Second Republic, the arrival of this Second Republic, was celebrated in Catalonia with a massive burning of churches. They say: "Yes, here, in church, the altarpieces don't..., because they cremated the Red Militias in 1936, and they killed the chaplain, who was a very good person. Because many Catalans, even after this drift from the Republic, celebrated the end of the war with a great mass in Plaza Catalunya, after years without being able to celebrate the fault of the Republic. Republicans fought not for democracy, but for totalitarian socialism. It was a different time, I guess. The PSOE. The radicalization of the PSOE was the main cause of the Civil War. He said his leader. [[remorse of the voice]] Long Knight – I suppose you'll remember –: "Our party is revolutionary. If we don't win in the polls, we'll go to war. We prefer the socialist dictatorship. The Socialist Party goes to the conquest of power, legally, if it can be, and, if not..., as we can. Example: the PSOE coup d'état against the Republic on 5 October 1934. In the bloody socialist coup d'état against the Government of the Republic, the socialist couptists murdered – this is historical memory – thirty-three priests, destroyed seventeen churches and forty religious buildings – I don't know what the Church did to you – in addition to dozens of factories, bridges, houses and public buildings of the Generalitat de Companies, of Esquerra Republicana. It tastes bad to me, but of course, since we are talking about this law, we must remember these things. Lluís Companies also had its coup d'état [[remorse of the voice]] against the Republic on 4 October 1934, proclaiming the Catalan State. Lluís Companys, on July 24, 1936, by a presidential decree, created the dream – with respect and affection – of any member of the CUP: the Central Committee of Anti-Fascist Militias of Catalonia, which murdered more than eight_ thousand Catalans and whose victims remember with affection every day our deputy Manuel Acosta on social networks. [[Some applause.]] Many Catalans were murdered by militia to go to mass, to be supporters of the order. They had to leave their homes to defend their ideas or simply not be murdered. Czechs, Republican prisons. Esquerra Republicana had her own Czech, and was in the street Carolines, 18, of Barcelona. They seized from the College Sant Vicenç de Paül, which was not agreed, and there the leaders of Esquerra tortured those who did not think like them. It is estimated that more than twelve thousand people were tortured in the Czechs, and most of them were then killed. It was such the atrocity of the Generalitat of Companies that the members of the Lliga, the former converging – the former, perhaps, of Junts, if any –, with Change at the head, signed a manifesto of adherence to Franco. In fact, it would be good for the reconciliation that the two parties present here, the Socialists and the Republican Left, who were already in that evil time of our history, would ask for collective forgiveness for those facts. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] , of which I don't think they're proud at all. [[Some applause.]] And here's the law: forty-seven pages. They have curated it, the truth, but there is no word – and I have put it in the seeker – that is«reconciliation. I was looking for another word, also very nice, and it would also be very good for us all to live together: "Excuse me; neither is it. And let's go get the law. The first explanatory statement is an absurd manipulation that exalts the Second Republic and obviates the responsibility, among others, of socialists and Esquerra in the dramatic Civil War. A war is always a drama to be avoided. Losers can never pretend, by force of law, to try to re-open wounds, and less torturingly. The second explanatory statement is a procession of all the laws that you want to impose in favor of conditioning the memory of the Spaniards and avoiding their reconciliation. In the two chapters of the preliminary title, they address the victims of one side, and, look, there were victims on both sides. In the first title, they talk about location of graves, exhumations and identification of victims. And the second and third titles speak of entities, associations, research memory, search, registration, documents, records, teaching, dissemination..., and, all of this, with a large financial endowment. And, I see, because the scope of this law pretends to be Catalonia, that most of the victims were from the Republican side. Then what's going to happen to the money? Are you going to keep it? Sure. I'm sure you'll keep it at the expense of the IRPF of the thousands of Catalan workers who pay their taxes every month. The fourth title is a tailor's calaix, and they speak of censorship and persecution to those who do not think like you. The fifth creates more chiringuitos to continue spending money at the expense of their ideological delusions, which in that coincide the left and the separatists. They want to create the Democratic Memorial, with its headquarters, charges, salaries, expenses, but for the price of light there is no more money. That's why you can't lower taxes, but that's why you want to put money. And, in the sixth and last, they set their fines to limit the responsibility of thought and avoid plurality, ranging from 200_euro to 150,000_eurazos. In conclusion, with this bill they once again demonstrate what left and separatism are: division between good and bad Catalans and Spanish, between red and blue, atheists or believers, men or women, workers or entrepreneurs. But I will give you good news – although for you..., perhaps for some it is not so good news –: the division is overcome, in families, among friends, in neighborhoods, in most of our homeland, in Spain. And, among other reasons, that was one of the reasons why VOX was born, precisely because of reconciliation. Because in VOX we have everything: grandparents who fought on the Republican side and grandparents who fought on the national side, who voted left or right, liberal and social, men and women. For to us what we like to defend is what I have told you and that in this law does not appear: reconciliation. In short, we reject this law of memory because we defend a united homeland, without divisions, free and with equality and prosperity for all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.209.0	Then, to make use of his turn against, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.210.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... Quod was demonstrating. I didn't expect anything else. I've seen him maybe a lot lower than the one they used to use in the General Courts, but we didn't expect anything else. Look, I don't specifically address you, that I don't expect to convince you, but you're also in the room and maybe there's some remote possibility that you'll answer this argument: you can't be left-handed, republican, or even a person who makes a necessarily positive appreciation of the experience of the Second Republic, to agree that it's necessary that after a forty-year dictatorship, with hundreds of thousands of victims, there are public policies of memory that guarantee that more than ever in the country can go through something like this again. [[Greetings.]] Don't call. A lot has been said – you haven't said it in your intervention – when it comes to memory policies, that you don't have to open wounds. Memory policies tank them, garreixen. When the effort is made, from public powers, to return them to someone the remains of their relative, who had been buried in a voral of a way or at the top of a cemetery, they are guarding themselves wounded, he is hemming the pain; he does not disappear, but he is hemming, and he is allowing reconciliation. And it's not living in the past, it's learning from past mistakes to project it into the future and prevent it from repeating itself again. That's what memory policies are. And it seemed to me a lot of meaning that you come here to claim that the losers of the Civil War claim to write memory laws. They're, I suppose, in the winner's banner, they have to consider that. But believe me: any war, and especially a civil war, has no winners and losers, loses the honest society. [[Greetings.]] And they're talking about conciliation. They talk about conciliation and talk about the need to overcome all this, but on the basis, yes, of a silence that you dictate. They want us to shut up; they don't want me to talk about this. You pretended, I suppose, to make an injuring intervention of our consciences, pointing out some of the questions that are already well established in historiography, that went through, and that the lefts of the country, the democratic forces of the country, have absolutely no problem talking to us. Miri, among other things, the former will advise him on some other occasion that, when they have found themselves in the remains of victims, let's say, of collapses on the part of anarchist elements, they have been treated, in the mark of the law of democratic memory, with equal dignity and rigour as any other victims who have recovered. [[Greetings.]] But, as I said, you want us to shut up. I remember that song from Raimon, I think it's said to my country the rain, that it says: "Who will rescue me from so many years of misinformation and dismemberment, right? It is the laws of memory, it is the public policies of memory, which must rescue us from so many years of misinformation and dismemberment. Because, if not, you may be allowed to come here in the incarnation of historical revisionism to say I don't know what barbarity you have to blame for the iniciator of the Civil War. Look, very simple: you want to be quiet and quiet, and we have come here because no one can say in the future that the times were dark because we shut up. And before the rise of fascism and extreme right to all of Europe, before the intention of reactionary forces to rewrite history and to keep quiet the victims of Nazi and fascist violence, we have come here to say that we cannot say in the future that the times were dark because we were quiet. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.211.0	Next, and to express her position, she has the word, first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Congresswoman Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.212.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, public that accompanies us today... Activist and writer Rolando d'Alessandro, in his book Fights and protests, talks about the curtains of progressive smoke. The historical memory is one, to cover the policies of submissiveness to capital, which are many, and concludes that they work well. And you're right. It's like, "You vote for us, because the others are worse. And we pose on the table, ourselves, the first doubt that we arise with this proposition of law, and it is: why democratic memory and not historical memory? If the State of Autonomy is talking about historical memory, why are we talking now about democratic memory? Is it to establish the Spanish Constitution as a rule change? Because we, as we have said many times before, in this conceptual framework we do not enter: the Spanish Constitution was not a break with any rules. There is also a whole series of legislation that has already been passed by this Parliament, such as the 2007 law of the Democratic Memorial; Law 10/2009, on the location and identification of missing persons and the dignity of common people – which does not go to international law, however – Law 11/2017, on the legal reparation of victims. And leave out the Law 16/2020, from the enforced disappearance of minors in Catalonia, which keep it as a law apart, contributing to this area of fragmentation that has always been linked to memory. It is surprising, in our view, that there is no reference to a basic text such as the International Convention for the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. It is also said at the speech of motive that in the Francoism there were crimes of humanity and war crimes, and that these crimes could not be object of amnesty and that for their gravity they did not prescribe. But is the 1977 amnesty law a derogation or is it not an express derogation? Because, of course, they tell us that they are not covered by this amnesty law, these crimes, but then it turns out that the courts do not go into investigating any type of crime because they tell us that the international pact of civil and political rights cannot be applied and they remind us that the 77 amnesty law prevents investigating violations of human rights that passed before this law was passed. Do, please, expressly this derogation from the 1977 amnesty law, because that means that the courts in this country don't do the favor of investigating all the crimes that we have in the long history and that have gone absolutely unpunished, because all the complaints that are presented to the court go into the process and don't go into the slightest investigation. In relation to the articulate of the law, we want to make a series of considerations. The law shall be understood until the entry into force of the Statute of Autonomy. It leaves out, therefore, the ultra posterior violence. We would understand, in our view, that it should also be investigated. There also appears to be concord, and he sees us at the head of this concord law that... these mermaid songs from the law of the PP. We understand that with this principle of concord we want to settle the report of the Civil War as an internal assumption, a confrontation between banners, when what we need to talk about is, clearly..., as the first phase of the imperialist aggression war of Nazism. When it comes to measures and actions directed at victims, such as identification, recognition and dignity, this is very good, but the rescue and investigation of those responsible are also essential. It's also a list of people, including missing, tortured, hussy, exiles... but we find it missing, for example, the anarchist maquis, who did not fight strictly for the defense of the head government. It does not include anti-Franco fighters. A whole series of courts are declared illegal, and they say: "The nullity of the right from the sentences is due. We want an express statement. And here we lock in the court that executed Puig Antich? Why in certain aspects of the law does the silent denial work? Why is it that the whole law does not mention truth, justice and reparation for colonialism and its descendants when this State was built, too, with the exploitation of natural resources and exploited and semi-slaved labour in African colonies? Are they not, these colonized people and their descendants, systematically invisible in the collective memory? It's about repair and recognizance. Reconnaissance, yes, but... repair? Really? Repair without saying anything about the botxins? And material compensations, do we see them covered? A system of fines is envisaged: for many very heavy, up to 150.000 euros, when at the law bites the fines can reach up to 600.000 euros. Obviously, there is a very substantial increase in economic quantities. If there is a pit, unlike what the law foresees, which is to act immediately, do not do what the law says, which is ‘if it goes up. You need to exhume immediately and identify genetically. I can't argue about anything. It's an obligation of the State, and it's an obligation of the utmost urgency, because in two years we'll be left without direct victims. There is an article for the removal of symbols contrary to historical memory, also..., against democratic memory – forgiveness. Here too we should place, if we speak of democratic memory..., also to make military, colonial and monarchy symbols. It's about itineraries of democratic memory, it's about catholics of places and itineraries for democratic memory. But, what a pity, those who belong to the State are expelled. Therefore, do not export Via Laietana. It is about actions aimed at recovering documentary assets from the State, but unfortunately the judicial documents, which are of great importance, are also excluded. The Technical Committee for Recovery and Identification of Missing Persons has not..., no cooperation of any family member victim is envisaged. It is planned to celebrate Exile Day on May 8, which is the day of the liberation of Europe from Nazism. But, you see, May 8, 45, how did it affect the life of an exile? Or it is also expected that October 31st, which was the day the Courts approved the Constitution, will be the day to celebrate the victims of the franchise. But is the constitutional text a tool, really, or did it hide the pain of victims? Here I refer, for lack of time, to Josep Fontana's prolegum to the free but partial Judges: the survival of Francoism in the judiciary, which I cannot read for lack of time. Therefore, the title follows, "From the right to justice, we do not know how to catalog it. Actually, if we want to repair, exercise sovereignty, replace..., the Government of the Generalitat would have to undertake the initiative« Bombes d'impunity, an initiative aimed at obtaining the rescue for the damages of war caused in Catalan land by the Italian Feixista aviation through a lawsuit for the civil road against the Italian State that comes out of organized civil society. Only with acts like these will we get a real repair. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.213.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.214.0	Thank you, President. Master Name, Angel Carrero, Pere Valverde, Joaquim Puig and Querymunt... Surely I tell you these names and many of you don't sound them, and surely a lot of people in Catalonia don't know who they are. There are four PSUC militants who fled to Camp de la Bota on February 17, 1949. Two years of this supposed reconciliation and of these forty years of poverty that assumed the Francoism, which some say. And surely the fact that a lot of people in Catalonia don't know these names or the thousands and thousands of activists of many different political traditions who fought to defend freedom, democracy, better jobs, self-government and català – I insist on many different political traditions – is what, in short, also makes me feel more like the inn of a democratic memory law than ever before. It's true that Catalonia hasn't been a spearhead for a long time, but we think it can go a lot further than we've been so far. In short, I think it is a waste that in Catalonia, for example, people like Angel Rozas, Miguel Núñez, the Tomasa Cuevas, María Salvo, Sebastià Piera, the Gregori, the Guti..., I insist, people of many political traditions – obviously, I back my own –... but, in any case, that everyone knows who they are and, in short, what they have given to the length of their lives. We can – and I am sure that in this case, Republican Left, the Socialist Party, and obviously also other groups in the chamber, I do not want to let anyone – be quoting, I believe, during all interventions, thousands of names – also of other political traditions, such as, for example, Democratic Union also –... So we could be quoting those names. And, ultimately, "democratic memory" – and I don't think we should fall into the trap that some people want – it's also a way to claim joy and hope, and it's not to fall into this hate policy, and it's also a way to show that love can win hate. Because I think that, too, when we talk about democratic memory, we don't just have to focus on justifying ourselves or putting ourselves on the defensive. We also need to explain the democratic gains that the Second Republic assumed in this case: right to vote for women, right to divorce, right to public education. This was, in short, surely the Second Republic for thousands and thousands of men and women working in Catalonia and throughout the State. And that's what we have to claim, too, and that's what we have to explain. And that's because thousands of people from Catalonia too, but especially young people, know it and know it, because, if not, we'll leave the land adobat because the or the snake explains a story that has nothing to do with reality. And I believe that it is also worth claiming and that people know – for example, enguany – experiences of unity in defense of self-government, of the democratic freedoms of Catalonia and also of social adventures, such as, for example, the Assembly of Catalonia, which enguany fifty years ago. And here I also take advantage of introducing some elements of the law that are important to us. I think it's good that the Democratic Memorial deposed from the Parliament of Catalonia, and not from the government of back. And I say this because, surely, if this year we don't have an anniversary like God in the fifties of the Assembly of Catalonia it is because the changes many times of government that suppose also changes of the direct teams of the Democratic Memorial are not corresponding with the work..., that I think it should be a shared work and, moreover, driven by the conjunction of the Parliament of Catalonia. This is one of the proposals we will make. Like the Català Internacional per la Pau Institute, which reports to the Parliament of Catalonia, I believe that the Democratic Memorial should be a country institution, an institution of the Parliament of Catalonia and that it should be served by the citizens of Catalonia, regardless of the government we have. And in this I also agree with what he said, because I believe that democratic memory and memory, obviously, which meant defending freedoms and democracy for forty years of Francoism, is an element that should be transversal to the country's conjunct, if we really want to combat what the emergence of practices, obviously, absolutely anti-democratic and of fascism, entails. And when it's about unity and it's about, for example, pacts against extreme right and fascism... it has to do with that. For example, also one of the demands that has come from democratic memory entities and that also reverses the law, and that, for example, does not? , situates the Enric Cama, a militant also of crushed stone that I believe should be an institution of country, that it is now Terrassa and that it is dedicated to extend what was supposed to be the fight against Franco, is that the democratic memory also has to form part of the school curriculum of education both at the level of primary and, obviously, also university level. It is the best way to explain what the Second Republic meant, but also forty years of black night and dark. In short, as the Enric repeatedly says, it cannot be that the democratic memory of Alzheimer's disease, because it is the best instrument for defending our freedoms and our democracy, because it is insufficient. He also explained that – it is true – Franco died in bed, but Franco did not die in bed, he died in the streets defended by thousands of entities, political parties... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, the franchise died on the defensive lane, for example, in this case... those years, for example, in the case of the SEAT. You're saying the SEAT workers didn't drop the franchise from the fights and the general waves they called? And so, they dropped the franchise. And that doesn't mean that democracy in Catalonia, too, and the state doesn't have to expand and get better. And I end up with a little story that will surely have to stay, some very far away and some very close to it. It is the story of a small town of Càceres, playing from the province of Toledo, which is said Alia. The year 1936 saw the French troupes enter. His mayor was squandered simply to try to defend what he had chosen for. He was a socialist mayor. He was my besavi; my father never knew his avi. He's been sunk by Alia's side, we don't know where he's buried. It's lion cid. I simply hope that this will never happen again in our country, and that, therefore, this democratic memory law will never forget who Leon Cid was, who were the thousands and thousands of men who fought to defend democracy in this country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.215.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Matías Alonso, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.216.0	Thank you very much, President. Consellera, senyores i senyors deputats... We are faced with a proposal for a law of the Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group that I do not know of entry if it has generated some internal dispute or some reticence on the part of the most moderate nationalist wing of the electoral coalition that gives rise to the parliamentary group; but, if so, neither I am surprised nor important, either, because of the reading of the bill, especially from the reading of its preamble, from its explanatory statement, what is inferred is that we are faced with a proposal for a law brand PSC. I don't even dare lie to the PSOE, even if it was Sanchez's new PSOE. And I do not do so because, if I compare the statement of reasons that the PSC argues to sustain its peremptory need to relegate on democratic memory in front of one of the darkest periods of our contemporary history with those used by the Sánchez Government itself for its draft law on democratic memory or with the preamble to Law 14/2018, of 8 November, on democratic memory, of Aragon, adopted at the Courts of Aragon at the request of the Socialist Government of Mr Lambán, the manic bias of this proposed law is perceived in plain sight. I don't know if it has anything to do with the will of the Socialist Party of Catalonia itself or has something to do with the sources from which it has been drinking to raise this bill. Actually, it doesn't matter much either. That today we are debating this proposal for a law, which we are debating again in this Parliament on democratic memory, which already has extensive legislation in Catalonia – it has been said, much of it driven by the PSC itself – gives us a clear idea of the priorities of the parliamentary group leading the opposition, the group which has self-proclaimed ‘alternative government or ‘government in the shadow' and which in fact seems to us more like the shadow of a misgovernment. This bill was accepted by the Bureau of Parliament on 6 July 2021. That this proposal of law is a priority, it seems that of extreme urgency, for the Party of Socialists of Catalonia is evident in the statement of reasons itself, when it refers – I read literally – to the « bill of democratic memory of Aragó published to the Butlletí Oficial de les Corts d'Aragó on August 10, 2017 and still in the phase of processing. The rush to present it and then process it has not allowed them to realize that this bill they quote is already law in Aragon since November 8, 2018, almost three years ago. A priority for the PSC seems to be shared by its parent company, with the Sánchez PSOE, which is also currently processing another law of democratic memory in the General Courts, this time as a priority of the Government of Spain, not as a priority of a shadow of government, as is the case that occupies us. In any case, it powerfully draws attention to the fact that, with what is falling, with the energy demersal that has its main indicator in a price of unobstructed electricity, with the chaotic management that has been done during months of the health crisis – a chaotic management that occurred especially when today's leader of the opposition of this Parliament was minister plenipotentiary of health –, with the uncertainty about the evolution of the economy – throughout Spain, but in a special way in Catalonia –, with the observed growth of incivism and violence in the streets of many of our cities, with the labor precariousness that condemns the majority of our young people to not be able to emancipate themselves, with the thousands and thousands of citizens who are suffering from the scourge of long-term unemployment – especially among the elderly and five-year-olds – with the increasing concern that they can have a decent pension as soon as retirement arrives, with the thousands of families who live on the threshold of poverty and who are exposed to a high risk of social exclusion, with the notions of self-conceptiveness and self-conceptive effects on many young people, and self-constructive families, and self-construction. You know exactly what wild card I'm talking about. In any case, Citizens, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, we reiterate in this full debate the condemnation of the 1936 coup d'état, the dictatorship and the repression exercised during the Civil War and the long post-war period. We believe that the victims of this black period must have memory, justice and reparation, and that a democratic society must seek the guarantee of non-repetition. On this crucial issue for democracy, we do not profile ourselves. Nor do we do so in the recognition, memory, justice, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition of the victims of terrorism, regardless of their colour. And, in that sense, we regret the ease with which the socialists, with the connivance of the PSC, are contributing today to whitening that other dictatorship, that of terror, which was killing for almost forty years after democracy had recovered. This is also democratic memory, and in that space of memory the PSOE – and therefore the PSC – seems to have some amnesia, given the status of preferred partners of the ETA heirs and political groups that justify, through the facts, the empire of terror that they wanted to impose on all the Spaniards. In short, since there is specific and sufficient legislation in Spain and Catalonia to maintain the democratic memory of the victims of the Franco dictatorship, we regret that it is not taken into account that most Spanish citizens today are children of the Transition, not of the Civil War. The democratic memory we claim also includes that of the thousands of victims caused in Spain by terrorism in all its forms. Those victims who, every time they celebrate an act of remembrance and homage, are none by the Administration of the Generalitat and, for more inri, by the City Council of Barcelona, which governs the PSC at the hand of Podemos, of Colau. We condemn the totalitarian dictator who subjugated the Spaniards for much of the 20th century as we do with all dictators who have in the past or today subjected their peoples to totalitarian and terror regimes, which unfortunately do not share all the parliamentary groups in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.217.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.218.0	Thank you, President. Well, three very telegraphic considerations. First, Mr. Pedret, usually strict in his statements, has begun with a book falsification. He said that "non- militant democracies are protected with laws of historical memory or democratic memory. False: non-activist democracies – and only a little bit of a comparative policy – are protected with the compliment of the current law and the prestige of its institutions. In fact, the one who passes here, this one obsessed malaltissa with the Civil War, only passes here. There are many more non-activist democracies with preterite civil wars that do not spend the whole day turning to the same subject and that do not have any type of democratic memorial law, historical memory or what it means. Secondly, as you have said, we in this House have voted on certain things by consensus – certainly, some, I feel the same spokesman for my parliamentary group – and we have come to terms with other spokespersons of diametrically different political formations. We were looking for, uncertainly or not, the will of the Transitional Expert. But – and this is the third reflection – what we have here is a goal to the totality of any spirit of concord. It makes sense, sometimes, that when this Parliament comes to a consensus in this matter, to a consensus of the least, you do not like it. They don't like it because they're tearing away the picture they've been using for so long, that it's this kind of treachery that can't be reconciled. And then they want to go back a step further. They had no need to present this text, when it came to agreements in concrete matters but that they are capable of raising a minimum consensus, right? Therefore, if your aim was to break the consensus – which you yourself referred to – that it had been achieved in previous legislatures in some concrete things, you have succeeded, I must say: return to break any possibility of consensus, with the text absolutely full of prejudices that you carry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.219.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Aurora Madaula's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.220.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Welcome, especially the people who have been in the audience today. Festival, huh? , festival. Here, when it comes to history, everyone thinks he can talk about history and he can do no history, but cartoons. Well, we're used to it, aren't we? The memory law that today proposes the PSC is the democratic memory law. We agree, and we will, of course, vote against the threat to the whole. We agree that this Parliament must propose and participate in the proposal to make a law of joint memory that updates all these policies of memory that we need to make. Obviously, as I have already said, we will vote against the threat to the totality of VOX for the usual reasons that we vote against VOX and against the whole proposal of the extreme right, because here we have never, ever, ever come to naturalize the extreme right, and we will always vote against fascism, and much less in a law of the natural that we are now presenting, a law of democratic nature and, therefore, anti-feixist. You've heard a lot of things, haven't you? We have come to hear from Franco, dictatorships, fascisms... ; of course, « everything is ETA... We have even talked about stories, stories, and, obviously, about historical revisionism, of pseudohistory» seemed to me to hear the pseudohistorian Pio Moa, when he felt some of the representatives of the extreme right to speak. There have been many debates, and many debates that we usually have historians between history or memory, historical memory or collective memory. I personally believe that historical memory is an oximoron. And I defend more the idea of collective memory – the collective memory – which is to which we historians are accustomed when we work on historical memory for the world – not historical memory, but collective memory. It is obvious that there are some needy sorgids..., there is a historical context, there is a social context, an academic context to which this law of historical memory refers. A historical, social context, such as the sociological Francoism, which still persists in Spanish institutions; which, obviously, still persists. This morning you fought a lot when Congressman Rius spoke of post-familiarism, but it turns out that there is this concept. This concept developed for the historian Enzo Traverso..., speaks of post-feixism, post-franchism. Here we can talk about this transition that we have in the 21st century, from the fascism of the 20th century to the 21st century – he calls it "post-feixism", with dominant characteristics: for example, ultranationalism, xenophobia, especially under the form of Islamophobia. The main purpose is anti-communism and anti-Semitism. I do not know if they should sound, these phrases that have been said in this hemisphere this morning: "You are promoting and financing Islamism, or, for another band, "communist totalitarian hordes. Think..., and make reference to what post-work is and who says these phrases. Clearly, there is a lack of democratic rupture in the Spanish State. And it is obvious that we need a law of collective memory, of democratic memory, to put all those memories into replenishment, to face up to all that violence that there was against the people, against democratic values. It is obvious that there are a few memory policies in the Spanish State, and that is why memory policies need to be updated. It is true that there is a flaw in the concept, in this concept of the wrong-named "Democrat transition". I have spoken to you many times about the ill-named "Democrat transition, this model transition that is, obviously, devastated, this bloody transition from Mariano Sánchez Soler's book, which obviously unravels this whole model transition. It is a breach of the Spanish law that has also given a breach to the policies under memory, with a rightfulness of state policies. It is obvious – and has been explained here – that the rise of the extreme right has favored these state policies, which have gone to the right with the exaltation of the extreme right populism and the rightness of all these policies, but we are normalizing in many camps the Francoism, normalizing the Francoist policies, as well as the different commemorations. And I don't have to talk to you about what happened to the Valley of the Fallen, with this... After forty years of death the dictator, it turns out that even we had buried the Memorial of the Valley of the Fallen and that the Valley of the Fallen is still a Francoist memorial, of exaltation of the Francoism. Or the one who passes them to the caudillo every 20-N. Or the one who passed to Barcelona on October 12th, with the exaltation of the fascism, and that does not happen. Or what is happening with the Franco noun, which is returning to Oviedo, or, for example, to other people governed by the PP and with the support of VOX in Andalusia. This development that they want to see again, the development of history between botxins and victims, this national reconciliation that they always call upon... It is obvious that we have been wrong: here there is no national reconciliation, but what there is to be is a democratic project of building a collective history, a democratic history, a history where differences, genocides, the transition to the 20th century, can work other types of collective memories, collective revolutions, such as democracy, the conquest of democracy, great collective struggles at work, sexual freedom, social adventures. But it's obvious we have to make a full law of memory. We'll work it out so that's what it is. We will also work because – as the government has bought it – there is a text – that is already working and that will get in short – that has a more Catalan accent, that we have found missing in this text of the Socialist Party. A Catalan accent that, for example, you do incis in the Francoist attempt of cultural genocide that we saw the Catalans; that you do incis and repair in the people who were persecuted to speak Catalan, in the Catalan institutions that were persecuted during the Francoism. Or that there are commemorations in the calendar..., that it is a Catalan calendar, and that, therefore, the references that there are to the state regulations are given. We have powers in the Generality, and therefore we believe that we must defend an integral and Catalan law from Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.221.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the parable of the deputy Mrs Maria Jesús Viña.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.222.0	Thank you, President. Today, on November 20th, he will be forty-six years after the dictator's death in bed and leaving his success in the form of a Bourbon monarchy well connected – which is still today's patim – as the herd of that rule that lasted forty years. A fascist regime that murdered, plundered and humiliated the defenders of freedom and democracy and lasted until the death and exile of thousands of men and women for defending the Republic, democracy and freedom. A fascist regime that imposed por, silence and submission, also with an educational system controlled ideologically and with the complicity of the powers of the Church. A fetishist regime that systematically pursued not only by ideology, also by reason of gender and sexual identity, by religious beliefs or by origin, placing these collections at the extreme of public social reasoning intentionally. A rule that until the last day continued to perpetrate executions – I speak of September 1975 –, death sentences at the gates of a supposed"Model Transition. Today is my first intervention at the Faristol. And talking about democratic memory for me is very, very emotional, I feel like a net shock of Republicans who suffered from exile and repression. Republicans who defended democracy and freedom and who for this reason suffered repression, as some of our companies still suffer. Because the Republicans are compromised with the defense of freedom and justice, and this compromise brings us and led us to work effectively for the restitution of all the victims of the franchise. The memory must be for them and for them, and above all for what we are here and for what they will come. Truth, justice, repair and future freedom. That is why 2017 Councillor Raül Romeva – today also retaliated – presented the plan of opening of the pits. He used to drag the dead out of the counets and dignify all the people who died fighting for the Republic or who were murdered for repression. It wasn't just a question of justice, it was a moral deure. In 2017, from the Councillor's office in Justicia, from the hand of Councillor Carles Mundó – also retaliated today – the law of legal reparation for the victims of the Franco regime was approved, a law to annul the sentences and the summary judgments of the Franco regime, which, as the Councillor had already said, was a debt pending with the victims of reprisals and unjustly condemned for their ideas and political acts. Consellera Esther Capella, from the Conselleria de Justicia, continued to push these policies of democratic memory following with the opening of pits and betting to reactivate the different spaces dedicated to memory, and decisively pushing the withdrawal of Francoist symbols from public space. As a tortoise and as a Jew, I cannot fail to aggravate his efforts and all the work that has been done since the council and the department in order to make effective the removal of the monument of shame, of the Franco monument, of the mig de riu de Tortosa, which has not yet been withdrawn, but sure, sure, that, as a fetish, it will fall. [[Some applause.]] Fourteen years ago this Parliament was already a pioneer in the adoption of public policies of memory, with the approval of the law of the Democratic Memorial; the law on the location and identification of disappeared persons during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship and dignity of common beings; the law of legal reparation of victims of Francoism, and, in the later legislature, the law of forced disappearance of minors in Catalonia. But we still have to approve the law of democratic memory, a general law that, I remember, repairs and shields us before the height of the extreme right. At the last legislature, despite the fact that the council's task was already well advanced, it was not possible to present in this chamber to begin its processing; but we must do so, we have the historical, moral and political obligation to do so. And precisely because of this, too, in the last general policy debate we approved a motion for a resolution by the Republican Left and the Juntes that urged the government to present to Parliament the draft law of democratic memory. And we're here to make it happen, to give this country a democratic memory law. He'll be late, but he'll have to arrive. A regulation that can bring together all these laws in force; a law that must be aimed at repairing all victims – people, collectivities, civic, cultural, trade union organizations – who fought for freedom and democracy, and who suffered repression and violence not only during the war and the Franco era, but also during the Transition. And we cannot forget from them, from all these collections and organizations that are also and have been victims of this period of history and for which also a repair and a recognition. And we would appreciate it if in the articulation of your law there were figures like such, not only mentioned in some of the articles. And, to give another example of what we also see in your law, we do not share the commemorative dates you propose. And that's why, in dealing with Parliament, we'll talk about it, we'll negotiate it, and I'm sure we'll find everyone's complicity to rectify it. But there are pioneers here who do not love the cowardice of the Spanish government and the democratic memory deficits. There's courage to go further, where they have the power. In short – and I finish – we need a law of historical memory, and we can't only ashes it to a trosset of history. The memory has to be a guarantee of non-oblit. Because, if we don't forget, we reaffirm the convictions and above all the lives from which they lost everything for some ideas, and we avoid that fascism goes back to camp with impunity. A law that allows us to deepen our history from 1931 to 1980, analyze and defend the freedoms and democracy of the republic period, analyze the repression of the Franco regime and analyze the social and political movements that they fought to restore our institutions during the Transition. Because only in the past is it possible to prevent repetition, and because before years of silence we only have the memory. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.223.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. Let's start the vote. The vote on the whole was 13 votes in favour, 114 against and 6 abstentions. Given, therefore, that the totality has been rejected, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Proposal for a resolution on the commitment of Catalonia to the reconstruction of Kurdistan]] [[250-00225/13]] Let's move on to the eighth item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on Catalonia's compromise with the reconstruction of Kurdistan. This proposal was presented for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win and the Parliamentary Group of In Common We can. Therefore, in order to present this initiative, we will start the debate with the proposing parliamentary groups, and then we will open the turn of positions for the rest of the parliamentary groups. Intervention turns will be two minutes for all groups. Thus, in the first place, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.224.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. To begin with, a greeting to the compañeros who are here from the solidarity movement with the Kurdish people, compañeros with whom we shared a trip to Rojava a few months ago to meet the Administration of North-East Syria, this Administration that today in this Parliament we will recognize as a legitimate actor. In 2014, in this Chamber, in a debate on foreign action, my parliamentary group said: "It is more than ever necessary for us to turn our eyes before the Kurdish people, on all the situations he has seen in Turkey, Iraq and Syria. From 2014 to 2021 this sentence remains fully in force; in fact, it is a necessity. Because, in fact, not long ago, only a few people would have been able to predict the emergence of a revolution in north-eastern Syria, or even believe it. So in the spring of 2011, when the Kurdish liberation movement declared its intention to build a society around the concept of democratic confederalism, few people were aware of the issue. Neither did they pay attention when the Party of the Democratic Union – the PYD –, part of the Kurdish liberation movement, established the People's Council of Western Kurdistan as a participatory and democratic umbrella for the people and their various political actors. A reduced number of people recognized him when on July 2012, in Rojava, popular revolts established a democratic system after having liberated towns and villages from the dictatorship that lived in Syria. These revolts marked the beginning of a contemporary revolution of profound importance mass often ignored, flagged and oblivious. At the 2014 generation, in a_second step, the three main Rojava regions issued a declaration of democratic autonomy; they created, in this way, autonomous and democratic administrations to ensure that their new system would be inclusive and plural, thus building a third way to the conflict that lived in the region. But it wasn't until that moment, between September 2014 and the generation of 2015, when the forces of defense of the revolution went through an impressive resistance against the Islamic State, in Kobane, which finally opened the eyes of the world. Finally, late, and, finally, in a mass often stigmatizing way. We then discovered the revolutionary guerrillas, when they did years, when in that region and in that movement they did years that feminism was a reality, when they had established a system of equality between men and women. As I was saying, it was then when the world finally looked at the region. And from then on many revolutionary, democratic, left-wing, socialist, libertarian and human rights groups are aware of the existence, in the north of Syria, of a free region, a free region named Rojava, or a now-named autonomous administration of north-eastern Syria, because it went beyond the classical borders of Kurdistan. But we do a little history to put the Kurdish question in context. Because the Kurdish question represents one of the most complex and violent conflicts in the Middle East, and continues to feel a conflict waiting for a solution. As long as its dimensions are not discussed in detail, the conflict will persist and even worsen, creating such problems for us and with greater repercussions; a conflict that also requires recognition and condemnation of the dictatorship of Turkey and the violence that the Turkish State exerts against the Kurdish people. As the Kurdish region is divided among the current territories of Arabs, Persians and Turks, this issue exerts a decisive influence on a large part of the Middle East. That is why it is still more necessary to find a solution; a solution that starts from the recognition of the existence of the Kurdish people; a solution that cannot be only for part of Kurdistan. A solution for one part of Kurdistan will affect, or directly affect, its other parts, as well as other countries. So, we see as the solution or revolution in north-eastern Syria what it does is to generate a violent, virulent reaction from the Government of Erdoğan, occupying territories of Rojava, occupying territories of Syria, while the international community looks at another side. We see Erdoğan intensifying violence against the Kurdish Turkish people in Turkey, but we also see Erdoğan intensifying violence against the Kurdish people in Iraq. And, before all this, the international community is looking at another gang. In fact, the international community continues to regard Turkey as the power allied to the area. And, yes, Turkey will be NATO's second army, Turkey will be an international power that has grown, but it must put a stop to the dictatorship and massacre carried out day by day by the Government of Erdoğan. That is why the first step in the resolution process must be the recognition and definition of conflict. In view of the Kurdish question, a realistic definition of the Kurdish phenomenon is extremely important. One region that has seen, for many years, how its location ended up provoking was that the interests of international powers affected the people living there without considering it. A geostrategically interesting region, with some of the most indispensable natural resources because Western society can survive. And, therefore, we have once and for all ignored the reality and the situation of the Kurdish people. And it's that for many years we've turned our face on a movement that, as I said, has suffered from an unheard-of repression. And today it's a waste, when we talk about the Rojava Revolution, the North-East Syrian Administration, to recognize that this movement of liberation could not be heard without the existence of the PKK, or without the figure of Abdullah Öcalan, a secret, in a prison in an island since 1999. And, therefore, it is also a waste that here today I have made clear Abdullah Öcalan's message of freedom, but release to the thousands of Kurdish reprisals that carry years to prison without justice. And, finally, in Catalonia for many years there has been one who has kept the flame of solidarity with the Kurdish people. Today we would not be here without forty years of the existence of the CIEMEN, which, in solitary for many years, established relations with the Kurdish movement. But today we would not be here without plataforms or collections like the Azadi platform, which brings the last few years pointing out Turkish interests here in Catalonia, pointing out the contradictions that we also live here with our external relations, that while on one side we exercise solidarity, for the other potential or contribute to the continued bombing of the Kurdistan area by the Erdoğan army. Today is an important step for the Kurdish movement, it is an important step because it is the first Parliament that recognizes the administration of north-eastern Syria and therefore implicitly recognizes the political contribution through democratic confederalism; a political proposal based on democracy, based on feminism, based on another way of hearing the economy and based on the recognition of diversity, both religious and ethnic, that lives in the area. But today is also an important day for us, because today I or we would like to think that if the Kurds say that the only friend they have is the mountains, from today they have another friend, that it is the Catalan people. So, thank you very much. Let us hope that this motion for a resolution and Kurdistan biji will be approved! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.225.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.226.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, I have the feeling that surely the people we are presenting this motion for a resolution, which is presented by four parliamentary groups, will be able to fall into repetition, right? Because in the end, we're going to do the same thing. But I think what is important is what Mrs Reguant has said a little bit: that this is the first time that a parliament recognizes an autonomous administration that is based on a movement that claims and puts into practice – not only claims it, but actually brings it into practice – self-management, participation, lower-level governance, and a feminization of politics and a policy management with feminist principles. And I think it's important that we do, because, sadly, when we talk about Syria, here in Parliament, and when it's usually about Syria because of the conflict that she's been through, we talk about very big dramas that are going on, right? , of the number of people who are dying, of the number of people who are fleeing, of the drama that the Mediterranean sees when thousands and thousands of people fleeing the Syrian conflict die, or arrive and do not have a good welcome and do not have safe lives, such as the European Union, as the international community is from the point of view of this Syrian conflict. But from Syria, as has already been mentioned, there is also a task; a task of construction, a task of proposal, a task of learning more from which, despite the difficulty and the war context in which they are immersed, despite all the pressures and attacks of the international community, the ability of an organized people has been able to do it, to stop it, to raise the veil and to say: "There are other ways of doing it, and here we are to put our bones there to defend it. As we say, most people probably knew Red because of the hard attacks he suffered a while ago and that he continues to paint. In fact, the last attacks were in the disembarkation of the past year or now, in August, when one more Turkish bombardment killed three children and his father in a village of Rojava. But Turkey is the State that continues to have the full complicity of the European Union in its violation of human rights. And it's important to say, and it's important to say from here. Rojava resists and Rojava is much more than the victim of Turkish tyranny. The Kurdish people is one of the world's largest unpopular people, and their claim as the people and their capacity to organize and fight has turned them into one of the main targets of a Turkish state they want to suppress, that they want to exterminate and that they are perpetuating genocide against the Kurdish people. A state, the Turkish State, which, as we say, is not precisely characterized by its respect for human rights and freedoms. A state, which the European Union should be ashamed of being its accomplice, of the use it makes of Turkey to control the Mediterranean flow for that Mediterranean band, to control and prevent the arrival in Europe of thousands of people seeking refuge, fleeing precisely from the Syrian war and other conflicts. Yesterday we spoke precisely also, from the question of Mr Wagensberg from the situation in Afghanistan, how there is again..., we will again have thousands of people fleeing the conflict situation in Afghanistan, as the European Union continues to be out of the question at the time of establishing safe lives for all these people. But we believe that now, as we say, of this situation that is living in this area, of all the drama that they are living and that every time we talk about it, but there is little response and little reaction, we come to talk about the recognition and solidarity that since the Parliament, from Catalonia, we are leading to the self-government of the Kurdish people in north-eastern Syria. And we insist very much on talking about this respect, about solidarity and learning, about management, because, in fact, we have a lot to learn from the political organization system of the Kurdish people in Rojava. I'll be quick, because there's already been a bit of an explanation as to how this administration of self-government really ends up. There has also been talk of democratic confederalism, inspired by the theoretical and political views of Kurdish leader Abdullah Öcalan, who has been near Turkey since 1999, together with hundreds and hundreds of Kurdish political prisoners. But we want to defend this democratic confederalism that is based on autonomous governance structures, decentralizations and from the level closest to the city. Surely, many of the people in this Parliament who work in the towns, who work in the municipal administration, in municipal politics, will find something in them. It is the essence of transforming municipalism: to give priority to the participation and self-management of the citizenry in politics and in the management of life. And they do so through a rotating and equitable participation of men and women in assemblies, in civil councils and in communal bodies at different levels and areas of an organization that self-identifies itself as democratic, feminist and ecological. A decision-making process that is based on direct democracy and consensus, that has a minimum unity of the commons, that are organized in barrels or districts, that to each popular council is obligatory the parity – not, mandatory, the parity. As a minimum, forty-five percent of the two genera must be present. Where the choice of spokesman is also dual; a representative or a representative is not heard, two are heard and must always be a man and a woman. In fact, the role of women is central to the Kurdish revolution – as has already been mentioned. It's an essentially feminist revolution, a revolution that fights patriarchy, that puts women in the center. And we have seen this, indeed, in the images of guerrillas, but it went much further because it spent all its life, because it fights patriarchy at all its levels, both in the institutional and in the personal, in the family and in the social. In fact, not at all, one of its slogans is precisely that the liberation of society is the liberation of women. These Kurdish women and men were also among the first to bring terrorism from the Islamic State to the region. Women and brave men, who have laid down and continue to lay down their bodies to stop the advent of terrorist violence, who have awakened solidarity and world recognition for their courage, strength and sacrifice. What we are asking with this motion for a resolution is to join us in this recognition, especially from a Catalonia with an organized social fabric, with a solidarity movement and a movement for the peace that has led us to be international references of this solidarity. In fact, we have had, this weekend, the World Congress of Peace just in Barcelona, and we also believe that the proposals that the groups bring here have to see precisely with this organized society, with this organized social fabric that carries more than forty years of solidarity with the peoples of the world. And, in concrete terms – and it has already been commented on – some entities such as CIEMEN, which have a special line of work with the recognition of the rights of the peoples of the whole world, and which we believe is one of the things that we from Parliament have to recognize and we have to contribute to building. But I think it's important that from here too – that from this compromise, the motion for a resolution is one of the things that points to – lines of action, lines of concrete action. There is a part of the recognition of the Kurdish authority, but there is also a part of how, from Catalonia, we have to work to be able to strengthen it, to be able to give it an answer and to go beyond statements. Later, there are different ways. We can do this through cooperation and institutional collaboration. In fact, the delegation that was made in July – there was the Barcelona Assembly, there was the Catalan Agency for Cooperation, there were some Members and Members of this Parliament –... there were clear lines of action. We believe that from the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation we must be able to work and we must be able to think of specific lines of intervention to work on this recognition, this collaboration and the reinforcement of this system of self-government and the resistance of the Kurdish people in Syria and Turkey. It should be a priority line and it should be recognised to the director, but this must also be carried out with resources and with specific mechanisms, which may have been the collaboration of the different institutions, but also with the social organisations and NGOs, which have been working in the territory for a long time and which are also those who have been at the edge of the cane, facing the conflict and working, hand to hand, with the organisations of the Kurdish people working in that region. We believe that from here what we have to do is move one step further, that Catalonia be one of the main international actors in the collaboration, cooperation and follow-up of the Kurdish people, and that is why we call for the vote in favour of this motion for a resolution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.227.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr. Francesc of Dalmases has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.228.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Says: "What unites the West is about the Islamic State. He said John Le Carré in an interview that he was given in the year 2017. Beyond filias and fóbies for literary authors, I have always considered Le Carré a visionary, who precisely used fiction to end up explaining what he saw, expected to happen in world geopolitics. And when he was talking about this, I would like to remind you, in order to put you in context, of those people who were decapitated or who were slaughtered for the Daesh at the cost of Libya, because they are sending..., beyond the propaganda apparatus, that what he intended to be tying from across Europe, was to explain that, in the end, the Islamic State was six hundred kilometres away from Italian costs and that that terror and cruelty that we had experienced and that we had observed in Syria, and that we had experienced with time or with some specific actions in Europe, so it was well on our continent. It did not count, Islamic State, that there would be a wall between Europe and the terror that Daesh represented at those times. There, the allies and their weaponry of the last generation have heard, as they have now understood to Afghanistan, that, as much as you have the best army of the world, as much as you have the best possible weaponry, if you have a fanatical army before you, at last it will only be the defense and the fight for it that will allow you to plant your face. And the epithet from which came forth those militias, that Turkish army, those Kurdish women, those guerrillas to whom we have made reference, was Rojava, was the Syrian Kurdistan. And forgive me, now that I see it, let me greet Amina Hussein, who today accompanied us, most worthy representing Kurdish women in Catalonia, with whom we had the opportunity to speak before. [[Greetings.]] Thank you for being there; thank you for your determination; thank you for always being there. Thank you, Amina. In Rojava, I said, the Kurds fought against three main and really hard fronts all three: Al-Assad's army, Daesh's forces and Erdoğan's Turkish army. And they didn't just fight and win on the three fronts – and I can remember today, despite the current circumstances, that they won on the three fronts – but they built a new political reality, that today the Parliament of Catalonia is the first to make this political recognition that is the Autonomous Administration of North-East Syria. Precisely today – and that's why I like to talk about victory – four years ago the liberation of Raqqa – looking at how things have changed – with Kurdish forces, with allies, with the army of the United States, fighting together, releasing what was the capital of the Islamic State in Syria. The year 2015, also on the ground and accompanied by some Member who spoke to the Faristol today, we were able to know how this new political reality, this new administrative reality, was born. And it's based on a principle that's been raised a little bit today, and I think it's essential, that it's the principle of the right to self-determination, in a clear way from the barrels, from the people, from the community. To understand that an unprecedented experience was built in the Middle East with three fundamental elements, which have also been named: municipalism, feminism and social ecology. And this unprecedented proposal, this Kurdish proposal for democracy and for pau, also helps to hear cruelty, beastism and the way these great enemies have acted: the Turkish army, the Al-Assad army and, obviously, the fighters of the Islamic State. This peaceful path, this proposal for the peaceful resolution of conflicts, and the resistance we have explained today, is what we recognize today and what it is so many years ago that it is known in Catalonia. I had a point – if I may, a personal point – of pride, because, when the CIEMEN began working with Kurdistan in the eighty-first and the north, I at that time was working with CIEMEN. And let me have an act of generosity. The campaign« We help the people of Kurdistan not only did we do it to ICESMEN, but we did it together with Justicia and Pau. And indeed, the CIEMEN at that time explained things that were very hard to hear, but that ultimately ended up giving reason to everything they anticipated. Some Members who have here will also remember, from the campaign for Ethiopia and Eritrea, and as the Spanish Ambassador called us and said: "Eritrea does not exist. So look, you'll see if it doesn't exist, that it's a state now. Let's go back to the PR today. This cruelty and this war that we have explained to the Kurdish community in Rojava and in this area of north-eastern Syria, is not only not passed – it is not only not passed – but today, today, the Turkish army, the army of Erdoğan, rapes, executes, chases, kills the men and women of Kurdistan, kills its trees, kills the water resources, which, as we explained very well before, they say that their friends are the mountains. And, therefore, the Turkish State knows very well that destroying these mountains, the lives of their mountains, also destroys them. But do you know what's going on? That Turkey is priority partners of the government of Pedro Sánchez. Because sometimes it happens to us that, speaking of long-distance issues, we all agree, but in a global world, in the end, it's all interconnected. And, therefore, remember that the government of socialists and commons has repeatedly repeated that Turkey is a priority partner, it is a trading partner, it is a partner to which they provide military supplies. Therefore, we find ourselves with the paradox of recognizing a political reality today that with our taxes, through the assumptions that we have approved of Pedro Sánchez, we are paying for the weapon that destroys this political reality. A little contradictory is that it is, because our today's cry is a cry for justice, but it is also a cry for coherence. Being Erdoğan's partners is being accomplices to Rojava's destruction. Or we want to be with the Kurdish people and their democratic option for the Syrian Kurdistan. Still can't be. Either we want to pay for the weapons that destroy Rojava or we want to be at the side of the democratic option that represents this Kurdish territory in Syria. We want to say « yes to Rojava, « yes to a peaceful way to resolve conflicts in the Middle East. Therefore, they cannot be accomplices to the Spanish Government, they cannot be accomplices to the Government of Sánchez, nor to its assumptions, nor to its taxes, nor to the way in which it manages its international policy. For this reason, together for Catalonia, I can say with pride – and we say this with pride – that the same thing we give to the Parliament of Catalonia is given to Madrid, we say it to Brussels and we say it in all international forums. And our political action and our votes are consistent with this world view. We can't say one thing in one place and vote another place. We would like – we would like very much – that everyone who votes today in favour of this motion for a resolution can say the same. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.229.0	I, finally, of the proposed parliamentary groups, has the word Ruben Wagensberg, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.230.0	Thank you, President. It is true that, after the three interventions that have preceded me, it is difficult to add much, and especially the master class, to say, of the Member Regunant in the context of what has passed, what is going on, of the historical relations also between what is Catalonia and Rojava. But we could complement, from some more proposals that are made in this resolution, which is the key to cooperation, cooperation that we ask, therefore, to the Government of the Generality and also to the network of..., the different networks of organised civil society, which start from and through this recognition. First, before, just like the previous Members and Deputies, a recon. A recognition that's already been made to entities that historically, right? Like ICESEN, they have worked and kept the flame, as Mrs Reguant said, with Kurdistan, but also the people who are currently making it to the grass-roots and organised civil society network, such as the Azadi platform or as people who are also accompanying us today, so here in the Chamber, who have been, who have been working there, who have also been supporting, in the end, this project and also supporting the league, therefore, with the people of Catalonia. And also a thank you, because, possibly, if it weren't for all this historical attraction or for this people who are here with us today, today we wouldn't be in Parliament taking this first step in the recognition of the administration of North and East Syria; a link, a link of the Azadi platform, of these people, too, right? , from the beginning of the escalate of the revolution of 2012, to Rojava, in the context of a war, of a violent and hard war that still lasts a day today in Syria. In this context, a hopeful project begins, a project that is not only of resistance to the Kurdish people, but is an initiative project, with democratic initiative, with the initiative of a solid political project, in addition, in a totally complex area and that the one that proposes, therefore, is, in the end, a proposal for coexistence, a proposal for peace in an area where there are very many ethnicities, where there are very many cultures, where there are very many religions and where they have to coexist. So, all this recognition for these people. And also a thank you, a thank you to the Administration, which after two delegations to which, therefore, I have been able to participate in the Administration of the North and East of Syria has rejected us, has accompanied us in this process not only of knowledge of the area, but also of political learning, which of course today from Rojava, from the north and east of Syria, are watching, are looking at this Ple. So, also a greeting from here, from Catalonia, over there. And also a thank you to the three political forces that together, therefore, with us have signed this motion for a resolution; therefore, to the commons, to Juntas and also especially to the CUP, that participated in this delegation, also, of the month of June, that we were able to travel to the area. So also a thank you to them. To complement all that has been said, two points. The first: it is obvious, as the French Member of Dalmases has already said, that what we are doing is not only an act of solidarity, of internationalism, of solidarity among peoples, but also an act of responsibility, because, as we said yesterday, right? , also the responsibility we have as citizens, as contributors of a state or a union also with what goes on in other lands of the world – in the case of yesterday, therefore, to Afghanistan – is also evident. And surely it is also very much believed, the bond we have with what is going on in those lands, not only in the specific part of Rojava, but also in all of Syria. A relationship, from the beginning, bel·lica, a military relationship, a relationship even of political project: Turkey is an ally, it is an ally of the Government of Pedro Sánchez; not only of the Government of Pedro Sánchez, but I would say of the Spanish Government many years ago. Many years ago there was a mission, on the part of the Spanish State, just to the border of Turkey with Rojava, which is the Patriot mission; we did not speak to the Foreign Affairs Committee sometimes, in fact, and we asked about this issue. It is a mission with military assets, also with human resources, that is to say, Spanish soldiers located on this border with anti-missiles, with weapons at the gates of Rojava; therefore, also supporting the violence of Turkey, of the dictatorship of Turkey, of the Erdoğan regime, in this case, to the Kurdish people, to the Kurdish people who saw the part of Rojava. And that involves us. It involves us, because the Spanish army, the different European armies that have participated in the length of these years – today only the Spanish army remains –, they are also supporting with our money a violence that does not stop. These same days the military proposal of Erdoğan against the Kurdish people is intensifying once more, in this case, in the area of Ain Issa, there is again a major military pressure, there is again a fall of mortars, there are again bombings with the intention of continuing to occupy on the part of Erdoğan this Kurdish territory. An occupation that is evident at the military level – very evident – is accredited through images that can be extended and can be found all, therefore, through social networks. But there are also other forms of violence that also apply to the Kurdish State, and one of them, for example, is through water, one of the great problems with which today the entire area of north and east Syria finds itself. There are two rivers passing, two mythical rivers, the Tiger and the Euphrates, two rivers today with a very important level drop, more than eighty_per_cent, and so on, right? , to the occupation of water sockets, in Syrian territories, but on behalf of the Turkish army. And, therefore, war, one of the forms of making war is through resources, in this case through water resources, which affects all the people who live there, who are trying to develop a political project, but also all that refugee population or perhaps badly called "refugee", because in reality they are internally displaced, people who have not been able to leave the country or who have not wanted to leave the country, but who have ended up being displaced from one of their own countries in refugee and refugee camps, managed by the own Administration of the North and East of Syria, and with some difficult problems of water supply. And here's where, too, from Catalan cooperation, we want today to start as a sort of exit, so, this lead institutional campaign, right? , for the Department of Foreign Affairs, also for other departments of the Generality, but also for an important network of joint ventures – therefore, from municipalism – and also, in short, from civil and organized society, which has been leading it so far..., therefore, when we talk about cooperation – when we talk about cooperation–, we are not only talking about the reconstruction of this entire area affected in many cases by the war, but also about cooperation in development, as in cases, for example, by water. So, today, to the motion for a resolution – excuse me – that we are carrying today, for a band, we ask the House to vote in favour of the recognition of the administration of the North and East of Syria as a political subject, a political subject that already exercises as it does years ago, of the right; a political subject that, moreover, has initiated a transformative and democratic and unique project, we could say, in the area, including, that someone might think that it is only governed or that supplies that Kurdish population, but in that area, as other Members, there have also said, there have been Turks, there have been Assyrians, there are Arabs who also participate in these assemblies, these common ones, in the end, of these governments. And, therefore, in this first point that we are asking for is recognition, to be the first parliament in the world to recognize it as a political subject, as they would call it in a campaign that began in early summer. For the other band, therefore, we also de facto ask for this recognition – now spoke about it in the previous point – against totalitarianisms, against fascisms, against radicalisms, there, in the form of religious radicalism, through the action well known to everyone in the Islamic State. And, in the second term, we ask the Department of Foreign Affairs to lead, together, as we say, with a municipal and organised civil society network, this campaign of cooperation, of cooperation in development, which is not new, which is not new for Catalonia, which we have done other times. For example, in the 1990s, after the war in Sarajevo, Catalonia was not only involved in the gathering of refugees, was it not? , of this conflict, but Catalonia was also an active part of the reconstruction of the whole area, especially Sarajevo, but we could talk about everything Bosnia. And, therefore, we do not ask for new, but we ask to continue with the spirit of solidarity that has characterized us from Catalonia so many times. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.231.0	Finally, the rest of the parliamentary groups also have the turn of two minutes to pronounce. And at this point, the Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr David Pérez, has the words. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.232.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, President, before anything, if I may, if you may take note of... we shall ask for a separate vote from this first point. If you can take note of it, after voting time... And we'll ask him for a separate vote, so we don't get it, do we? Because we understand that the recognition of the existence of this autonomous administration of the north-east of Syria could enter..., it could compromise the exclusive competence in the matter of international relations provided for in our legislation, including it could also compromise what the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia says in its article 193, in which the projection of Catalonia must be effectively promoted to the outside and promote its interests, but always respecting the competence of the State in the matter of external relations. I'm referring to the recognition of what we were talking about a while ago. Indeed, it was said by the Dalmases MP, he asked, from this Autonomous Administration of North-East Syria, formally his recognition as the autonomous country to the UN, to the United Nations, but we have to say that the recognition by other countries has been very limited, huh? - very limited. But, well, the young man's got other points, too. There are other elements which we, to say the least, do recognize. And we recognize the rest of the points when we talk about solidarity. And I think it's good that this Parliament of Catalonia today has a major recognition of the effort, of the solidarity that is made in this young man. We share the ideas and values of municipalism, feminism, the social ecology that exists in the second place. We also share this call to the solidarity network to participate in the reconstruction of the region, for the permanent or temporary gathering and, as the resolution says, in the other examples of solidarity networks – for example, the one that was produced between Catalonia and Bosnia. I would also like to place at this time on the table of other elements of external action that took place in the field of solidarity and cooperation. This morning they were also commenting on the subject of Afghanistan: this evacuation of practically two thousand people. We, Spain, continue to work at all levels and as some days ago the people who stand out at this point: "Our mission has not yet ended. Or others... for example, humanitarian aid to Haiti. We're only talking about two months ago. Spain has sent thirty tons of humanitarian aid to Haiti to deal with the consequences of the Earthquake, the Earthquake suffered on August 14. This shipment, organized by the Spanish Agency for International Cooperation in Development, also includes twenty-and-a-one pieces of medical material, basic kits– cooking, water drinking material and sanitation–, and the rest of the shipment has been brought by Action against the Family and, as the deputy also said, this solidarity network, counting it also Creu Roja Espanyola, Metges del Món, who are working on the ground. And also this solid look of the moon, this look of what is going on outside our borders, these prismatic solidaritys must also see the reality that we have of the coven at this time. Not only is the covid a theme of our borders, but beyond our borders there is a very important reality. We have to recognize – practically hours ago – the agreement that has reached with the Republic of Ecuador, of one hundred and thousand doses of this vaccine of AstraZeneca. The shipment is in addition to the donations made last month to Peru, Guatemala, Paraguay, Nicaragua; also to Costa Rica, Paraguay, Bolivia, Nicaragua, Jamaica, Suriname, which properly reopens these cows donated for Spain. We are talking that the total will be approximately 6 million cows, which will give Spain to Latin America and the Caribbean. And the goal is to extend this vaccination to as many of the world's population as possible. This objective defined in the universal access plan, which we would like, this solidary vaccination, this solidary vaccination program, approved for the Spanish execution to the encany gene, which defines this strategy of donations..., we would be talking about 22_million authorised cows to the European Union and used in Spain. And we would have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.233.0	Mr. Perez, please ask that the question of the order of the day be referred to you, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.234.0	Madam President, if I may, the same resolution speaks of other examples of a solidary network...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.235.0	Yes, but it did not seem that you gave examples of other groups, but the call to the question for Article 88 and ask you, please, to return to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.236.0	Madam President, it seems very good to me, but the resolution speaks of examples of solidarity that we have experienced recently; speaking of one, which is this one of Bosnia, and I have put forward other examples of solidary activity. Don't worry, my intervention was over, but I honestly find that you weren't sure about this toilet you made me. In any case, I insist, what is to be dealt with is that from these cow-cows and one is done evil – maybe that's what he didn't like – you don't do evil and that everyone can use it, or if not, use it in our solidary pocket. In any case, I insist, on the band of the first point, on the rest of the points of the young man we would vote in favour. Many thanks, Madam President, she will advise, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.237.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.238.0	Thank you very much, President. And good afternoon to all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, respect for the Kurdish people by this parliamentary group. But, having said that, to bring to this House initiatives such as the one we are debating and voting on today on Kurdistan shows once again the direction to which the separatist groups want to lead. While Catalonia tries to lift its head after a very severe economic and social crisis caused by the covid pandemic and drastically aggravated by the restrictive and negligent measures that this government has driven, you, today, prefer to keep this institution abducting, talking about sterile causes where this government has no competence. But, of course, you don't really care about the Kurdish case; you just worry about looking for oppressed peoples to compare with and trying to give legitimacy to your rupturist project. His modus operandi comes to be something like that of vultures, doesn't it? , which fly in circles, stalking in search of carrion, to feed his totally delusional speech. And today, with this proposal, they have found a cause that serves the three, Esquerra, Junts and the CUP, the three horsemen of the apocalypse: on the one hand, trying to equate Spain with Turkey or Arabia and Catalonia with a poor oppressed people, as we are already accustomed to, and, on the other hand, they intend to create the imaginary where the people of Catalonia keep some kind of similarity with the post-Soviet and revolutionary communist brigades that fight there. But, of course, you are going to cling to what you can to continue selling this absurd speech where Spain imprisons people to sing, where there are political prisoners and where the CDRs are beings of light. And a saying comes to my head, which I'm sure you all know: when a separatist takes a line, the line ends and the separatist goes on. On the other hand, honourable Members, we must remind you once again that Catalonia is not a country, that Catalonia is not a state and that the republic does not exist. The Generality of Catalonia cannot establish diplomatic relations with foreign countries – nor the recognition of that region – it has no competence. And, if you really care about the situation in Kurdistan, what you have to do is to urge the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to establish these relations of cooperation, of recognition, because, of course, the Counsellor has neither, nor does that Council have this competence. Let's do an X-ray of the situation that is going on right now in Catalonia. Forty per cent of youth unemployment, 73,000 people on the waiting list to access help to the dependency – more than 10,000 people died the previous year without receiving that help –, 233,000 Catalans waiting to be treated by some medical specialty, more than 20,000 Catalan children who have to study in barracks schools – the worst figure in Spain –, more than 140,000 people waiting for an official protection housing and 17,500 elderly people who, after a life of work and sacrifice, are waiting for their place in a residence. And you have little shame coming to talk to us about hosting Muslim refugees from the Middle East. Of course, you have the face of reinforced cement. The people of Catalonia try to rise from the ruins of the process and the pandemic and you, instead of working for them, look to Kurdistan giving them the lifeguards of humanity. Look, gentlemen, you have neither the competence to intervene in the Kurdish conflict nor the ability to do so, but neither do you have the legitimacy. Because, after decades of trials, after so many years of persecution, you have made Catalonia stop being the engine of Spain, have managed to escape thousands of companies, have managed to catch Catalan society and leave in two, facing families, facing siblings, have made the educational centers an indoctrination enclosure and have encouraged hatred to such an extent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.239.0	Mr. Tarradas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.240.0	...that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.241.0	... I'm going back to making a call to the question through Article 88. Cenyexi's, please, to the question. I allowed her the first time because she made a sentence to make the comparison. Now we're past this stage and, please, they're asking you to stick to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.242.0	Mrs. Borràs, I'm going to ask you for the email or the phone number and I'll send you the speeches a few days earlier so, listen, if you want to check them and say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.243.0	For you, I'm the president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.244.0	...what we can talk about or what we can't talk about in this chamber, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.245.0	...and ask him that, please, he cindered himself to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.246.0	Well, I'm going to stick a little more to the point. And I'm going to ask you, because I have to ask you, to leave already at once both Kurdistan and worry about the real and daily situation of Catalans. And I'm going to say it this way too, as Ampurdan: less Kurdistan and more Ampurdan. Because, with all the problems we have in our region [[remorse of the voice]] What we need is an administration that looks inside, that doesn't look outside, that cares about their people, their families, their elders, their workers, their young people. Less Kurdistan and more Ampurdan. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.247.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ignacio Martín Blanco, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.248.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that today the separatist groups – Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana, the CUP – and the commons are bringing us to this Parliament a motion for a resolution which, despite some element of bonhomy, some element of, let us say, voluntarism, which I recognize, on the other hand, seems to me to be a gross attempt to re-establish parallels between Catalonia and other places, other regions, other communities of the world that you consider to be repressed. I see that some Member of the Junts per Catalunya is pointing to the people of Kurdistan who are here. Look, I'm addressing the people of Kurdistan who are here. The Kurdistan representative in Spain three years ago said that it seemed simply ridiculous that someone wanted to compare the situation in Catalonia with that in Kurdistan. Well, Mr. Wagensberg makes gestures to me. Mr. Torra, the former President of the Generalitat, compared the situation of Catalonia with that of Kurdistan in an absolutely pornographic manner. Mr. Torra does it and many separatists do it. So don't tear your clothes, because, in fact, all my respect for the citizens, the people of a people who live in a very difficult situation in places that are truly tyrannical, dictatorial, such as Iraq on its day of Saddam Hussein, and the present Turkey of Erdoğan. Of course, all my respect. Those who don't respect you are all you. The lords of the separatist bench do not have the slightest respect for the people of Kurdistan when establishing parallels between Catalonia and Kurdistan. It's abhorrent. Look, this is the second time in two weeks that I come to this Faristol to tell you that you are presenting motions, motions for resolutions, parliamentary initiatives which are grotesque. And this is, once again, grotesque. It is absolutely incomprehensible, in any normal place in the world, that a motion for a resolution of these characteristics should be put forward in an autonomous parliament. It is absolutely exorbitant for you to claim that Catalonia recognizes a region that is enclosed between Iraq, Turkey and Syria, in an absolutely remote place, and that it has absolutely no chance of the Parliament of Catalonia or the Government of the Generalitat recognizing the international subjectivity of any sub-state entity. You must ask the Government of Spain to do so. Relations with the rest of the states of the world are, logically, carried by the states. And as Mr Aragonès rightly recalled today, indeed, Catalonia is not a state, and you must simply assume that. I understand that it costs them, I understand that it's complicated for them, but it does. Catalonia is not a state. Therefore, I ask the Government of the Generalitat to recognize the region of north-eastern Syria, because it seems to me to be, at least, exorbitant. I say this with the utmost respect, in the sense that it is not within the competence – in accordance with the principle of competence – of the Catalan Parliament or the Government of the Generalitat. This I say to you from the utmost respect and without any acrid. However, what seems to me to be simply demented is to hear representatives of the Junts per Catalunya Group say that the Government of Spain, the Government of Mr Pedro Sánchez, is a partner of Erdoğan Turkey. But what world do you live in? How can they say such nonsense? First, the European Union has repeatedly condemned Turkey's abuses. The Government of Spain, of which you now abjure Mr Sánchez, has also condemned countless times the abuses committed by the Turkish State, by the Iraqi State when they were committed against the Kurds. In any case, what seems abhorrent to me is that you establish that parallelism. It is absolutely incomprehensible that it seems normal for you to use Parliament for something so aberrant. Honestly, I'm telling you with all due respect. Let's see, here are many issues that are important to the citizens of Catalonia. We have a shot down; we have a really difficult economic situation to overcome – said the Cercle d'Economia the other day –; Catalonia slides towards decadence, towards economic and political decline; we live in a situation of absolute economic decline in relation to the autonomous communities that surround us and the rest of the world, and you, instead of worrying about the economic situation in Catalonia and also worrying about what happens in Kurdistan, but doing what is truly productive, that is, trying to establish cordial relations with the rest of Spain – yes, with the Government of Spain –, you do what you do is to come to this Parliament and to do your quermés, your black mass to claim that the Government of Spain is an authoritarian, totalitarian government and that the Spanish State is an undemocratic state. Well, I, honestly... you'll find it very normal, but you get absolutely nothing productive. Gaziel said that – I have told you on more than one occasion in this Parliament – separatism is capable of causing an episodic catastrophe in Catalonia. And, of course, separatism is capable of that. And that separatism is only able to offer solutions to the citizens of Catalonia when it enters into frank and cordial relations with the rest of the Spanish, that is, when it ceases to be separatism. I understand that for you to renounce what is your modus vivendi, what has basically constituted your only argumental element in recent years is difficult. But, well, I think that, for the good of the Catalans, for the good of the international community as a whole, it is certainly..., from modesty, as Catalan, I think that we would do well to devote the efforts of this Parliament to issues that we can really resolve from this Parliament or that the Government of the Generalitat can solve, and not to these developments that you come to raise here. Otherwise..., the MP of the CUP said before, she spoke of the PKK practically as heroes. Beware of these kinds of debates, which I believe would be interesting if they were to be raised in terms, let us say, much less schematic. That is why I am not in favour of us debating this in the Catalonian Parliament today, because considering the PKK a little less than a band of angels seems to me, at least, questionable. The PKK is an organization considered by the European Union and the United States to be a terrorist organization. Mr Öcalan, whom the CUP lady presented as a hero, is a man, for he has been, and is, precisely, wanted throughout the world for very serious crimes, and I therefore believe that, at least, we should be a little more rigorous in raising this debate; I insist: a debate that I do not think we should be raising here. On the question of the pacification of the area. Of course, Mr Wagensberg, I absolutely agree that this process must move towards a peace situation in the area, indeed. And since we're talking processes. This morning Mr Aragonès said that Mr Otegi's words are one more step in the peace process. But what process or eight - four? That's not a process or anything. That is simply the police, judicial and legal defeat of a gang of terrorists and armed gunmen – simply. [[Greetings.]] That document which Mr Aragonès so much celebrates, as one more step in the peace process, is a document which with being a little sweetened in relation to others that had been issued by the former leader of the terrorist gang, Mr Otegi, also has elements of assumption – of course, because it is his language – of a clearly perverse language. To me, to keep talking about conflict... but what conflict are they talking about? Conflict resolution, process... process to where? Process to Self-Determination in the Basque Country? Because that's the only option for someone to tell me that this is something dynamic, something that's going somewhere. Well, look, I insist on what I told you before: we can't keep confusing the citizenry. Stop using language so absolutely biased, so absolutely perverse, when they say that what happens in the Basque Country is a peace process or that, as I said the other day TV3, ETA was a Basque armed organization. No, ETA was a criminal organization, a terrorist organization; not a Basque armed organization – no, not at all. Or that..., or talking about the Basque national liberation movement, which are not the only ones on TV3, but unfortunately that language is a language that has fallen into our public debate and I sincerely believe that it does no good to our democracy, it does no good to coexistence and, on the contrary, it is profoundly unfair to the victims of terrorism. In the Basque Country there were not two sides, there were not some who killed and others who also killed; no, there were some who killed – the terrorist band ETA – and others who died: the good citizens of the Basque Country, constitutionalists or not, but in any case they were those to whom the terrorist band ETA tried to present as enemies of the Basque people. Therefore, peace process, Mr Aragonès..., peace process, nothing – absolutely nothing –: legal, judicial and police defeat of the rule of law to a gang of terrorists and armed gunmen, nothing more or less. I think it would be interesting, when we talk about terrorism, when we talk about peace processes, when we talk, in the end, about conflicts, that we know what we are talking about. What is in the Basque Country is not a peace process, obviously; and this Parliament has the power to legislate and position itself on very diverse issues, but not to establish diplomatic relations and, much less, to recognize the international subjectivity of a sub-state entity as is, in this case, the region of north-eastern Syria, as you propose. I would simply ask you to respect the dignity of this Parliament and stop doing your parties and your kermés in this Parliament. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.249.0	I, finally, for the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.250.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, let us see if we can postpone the subject a little bit, the question of the motion for a resolution, because it seems to us, of course, that it is a particularly serious subject and we would like to go into detail. It is clear that, well, the situation in Syria is worrying us all, I do not know whether to the point of having to bring here a motion for a resolution that could have been discussed in the Committee on External Action and, in fact, we have already discussed this subject, but, well, here we are talking about the issue. More than a decade ago the civil war in Syria began. The hopes of the Arab Spring were followed by a decade of death and destruction. There are tens of thousands of people who have lost their lives and millions who have also had to flee their country. It is the great tragedy of refugees, a great drama that not only affects neighbouring countries, such as Turkey, but I believe it appeals to us to the responsibility and solidarity of all those countries that we have the capacity to accommodate. The Syrian conflict not only reflects a diabolical geopolitical situation, which even the United Nations does not know how to resolve, but also highlights an enormous internal complexity of fighting factions as we have seen in a few conflicts. For this reason, it seems to us that a part of this motion for a resolution approaches the issue in one way, I would say, simplistic, if I may, even with a certain frivolity, and I believe that with more moral boasting than anything else. And I say this precisely because of the points that we will be voting on this afternoon; the first two points are a toast to the sun. You want to play United Nations, but it is also that you do it from a paternalism that seems unacceptable to us. Look, the Parliament of Catalonia is not the framework for us to decide how other states have to be organized territorially. You, on the first point of this motion for a resolution, call for the recognition of Syria as a confederal country and the recognition by the Generalitat of a region as a political subject. Look – we have talked about this issue – the Generalitat has competence in external action; we could urge the Government, for example, to promote Catalonia as a tourist destination, we could urge to boost export, to attract investments that could generate employment, which we lack; but external action is not international relations, international relations are state-specific. So, you get down from that imaginary republic of yours in which you live, because if you want to seriously debate the Middle East issue, if you really are concerned about the Middle East issue, what you have to do is to present this proposal in the Congress of Deputies, and not bring in proposals and debates that are sterile, because, I insist, we have no competence to talk about how other states have to be organized territorially or about recognition as political subjects of other states. I insist: I do not think we can deal with a situation as complex as the one that is suffering from the Middle East with this simplistic and frivolous approach, even. Some of the signatories of this proposal, such as Esquerra Republicana or Junts per Catalunya, have generated in Catalonia a problem of coexistence and economic decline, especially in the last decade; you have loaded yourself with a society that was prosperous. So, I don't think they're here either to teach the world how to solve their problems or how to solve complex war conflicts; I don't think they're the right ones. Nor do I think you have to tell anyone, in this case the Kurds, how you have to organize yourselves. On the second point of this proposal, you tell them that they must organize themselves with a municipalist, feminist and ecological confederalism, that to me this seems more like the proposals, therefore, of a caviar left of the upper part of Barcelona and not of a population suffering from war, hunger and disease. And perhaps we can agree on the second part of that motion where you speak of cooperation, where you also speak of solidarity. Perhaps this is not the way we would have chosen, but it seems to us that if something is needed by the Kurdish people, it is solidarity, it is cooperation, and not lessons like those you have intended to give here today from this Faristol. We are going to ask for a separate vote on these points. And I, again, ask you not to use conflicts like this, where there are so many people who are suffering, for their own demands and for their own independent chimeras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.251.0	We'll wait a few moments, because there were still five minutes left, that the MP hasn't made use of these five minutes. And, therefore, we will make the three calls to the vote and then vote. [[Long break. Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.252.0	We ask for separate votes from points 1 and 2, for one band, and 3 and 4, for another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.253.0	And three and four can go together. And the Socialist Party has asked, in view of its spokesman, to vote separately from point 1. [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Long break. Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.254.0	President, only for the request of a separate vote, also from item 3, which were requested on the 3rd and 4th meetings. Or go on, on the count of three.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.255.0	Oh, on the third.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.256.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.257.0	So, we vote all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.258.0	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-20-1502.259.0	Okay. [[Pause.]] We shall vote separately on the four points of the motion for a resolution. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved with 80 votes in favour, 49 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved with 111 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3 was approved with 111 votes in favour, 11 against and 7 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved with 110 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 1 abstention. Therefore, the motion for a resolution on Catalonia's commitment to the reconstruction of Kurdistan has been approved. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] We suspend the session until tomorrow at nine. Thank you very much.
