ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Manifestation of Condemnation of Male Violence]] Unfortunately, however, today we have brought with us the news of a new victim of general rape, to Sabadell. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, and I reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women and to age also for its record. According to the protocol of the Parliament of Catalonia against masculinist rapes, approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, we propose to make now the minute of silence, as we are doing in time of covid, so as not to make the agglomerations to the main face. So, we'll do now the minute of silence. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. [[Inquiries to the Government on airport infrastructure]] [[300-00018/13]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.2.0	Good morning. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor. We are dealing with a subject which, unfortunately, I liked to bring to the back of the House, but it had a pre-emptive confinement and it was not possible. But, well, we're debating it today. We have discussed it on previous occasions, but I am not able to find in any of the debates we have had on the topic of the expansion of the Prat airport no clear position on the part of the Government. Yesterday, supposedly, the third institutional table was celebrated, which was created in order to be able to seek a consensus between different agents and different administrations involved. We don't know... I tried to find out today, before I came to the interrogation, who had been the result of this meeting. I haven't been able to find out, and he hasn't been informed, either, at any point of communication. Maybe after you, counselor, you can give us more information, but it seems like maybe..., still seems to think that it didn't come to any concrete results. The reality is that today we have the government in a complicated position, because we have a government that is caught up with the government agreements it has, especially with the UPC. The CUP has always been very clear in this aspect: they have always been very opposed to the expansion of the Prat airport. They are trapped, too, between the positioning and the pressure that many economic and business sectors of Catalonia are making, that their positioning is very contrary to that of the CUP, they are clearly favorable to the expansion of the airport of Prat. They are also trapped in what the ecological groups claim, who want to protect the surroundings of the Prat airport. And with a Barcelona rally that is clearly against the enlargement of the Prat, without any complexity, and where the Socialist Party of Catalonia does not seem to have enough strength to impose its own criteria. I must say that the willingness to reach consensus is always good and welcome. And, therefore, it is very good to create this institutional work table, but time is running out. And the government's indecisiveness can cause us to lose an investment that has to be approved at the end of September and that can suppose for Catalonia the creation, according to several reports, of eighty-thousand places of direct work and wants of 350,000 places of indirect work, and, moreover, an increment in the contribution of the gross domestic product of Catalonia in two points; it has already been estimated that the airport contributed to the gross domestic product of Catalonia in a set_per_cent, and could reach a new_per_cent. I don't think anyone doubts that Barcelona airport is an essential instrument in Catalonia's economic recovery, do you? Many of the groups that are opposed to this enlargement today are the ones that fill the mouth most by talking about redistribution of wealth, but I have to say to them that, sadly, if we don't think it is rich, there will be nothing to redistribute. With this reversal of AENA, the capacity of the airport would expand to 72 million passengers. By 2019, before entering the coronavirus, unfortunately, to our lives, the airport had already reached its maximum capacity: it was estimated at 52_million passengers, it reached 55 and it was at a point where the airport was beginning to be very tense. The coronavirus arrived; unfortunately, this cut all the mobility, cut the tourism, cut the flights, the trips yesterday, and, therefore, this is the only reason why today we do not have a tense airport. But we have to think that yesterday's traffic will return, that the passengers will return, that the airport will return to pre-pandemic activity – let's wait, and we want to – and we have to decide already, and urgently, whether or not we want to be an international hub. Talking about an international hub is talking about tourism of the highest quality. I think this is an important point to take into account, much more so than the economic aspects of becoming an international hub. And turning the Prat airport into an international hub right now is indispensable, in a few moments where we are at the door of a very serious economic crisis that will be very long and very hard. Right now we need to put all the instruments in our hands to reverse it and help reactivate the economy. Prat Airport is a great tool to reactivate the economy. This also has to be done by strengthening the airports of Reus and Girona as intended, as do other major European cities, because these are also important airports in the Catalan airport system. Expanding the airport of Prat... I know I'm being dragged into ecological arguments, which I can share. Either way, it's not about one thing or the other. We must be able to combine the two elements, because expanding the airport does not have to be incompatible with environmental protection. We've seen this in other cities. We saw... how it went with the expansion of the port of Rotterdam. The expansion of the port of Rotterdam had to take place over a protected maritime area, and finally it was possible to do so, with the view of the European Commission itself. And the same thing happened with the Heathrow airport expansion. It is therefore possible to do so; other important cities in Europe have shown this and I do not see why we should not be able to do so. But in order to be able to make it compatible we have to put ourselves to work already. And to be able to do this negotiation with AENA, so that we can see with the environmental groups, with the assemblies of the round, with whom we can, with the European Commission itself – we must be able to go and talk with the European Commission so that we have a project where we can prove that we can protect the round–..., to do this it is essential, first, to take the first step, which is to decide whether or not we want the expansion of the Prat airport. And this is a matter that seems to have not just made a clear statement, and the agents involved do not have clear who is the position of the Government of the Generality, from which they must be able to continue to advance in these negotiations and make decisions about what we are doing and how we protect this environment. In the end, ruling is making decisions. And, in the end, creating work tables many times only serves to postpone decisions or to avoid them, carrying decisions to other people's scales. And I think here, in the end... it's a decision that the government can't escape. It must place its positioning on the table in a clear way, and from here, start the conversations with all the agents and with all the sectors affected. There must be a leadership of the Government of the Generality, especially when we see that the Barcelona Assembly does not enumate it, this leadership. He made his position very clear: "I don't want tourists. In the end, it is the mark of Colau's house: "I don't want tourists, and therefore this implies more tourists, and therefore I won't be found here. And that's a problem. And in this it needs the leadership of the Government of the Generality. We have to make it very clear that the expansion of the Prat airport is the biggest investment of the State in infrastructure that has returned Catalonia in the last decade. We have repeatedly complained about the lack of State investment. We have repeatedly complained about the lack of compliments on investment commitments by the Government of the State. And he's fine, and he's got to do it. And if there are no investments, there is a shortage of investments, it is not complete with the agreements..., it has to be denounced, of course it has to be done. But what we can't do is, when we're on top of this reversal, that it's one of the biggest that we'll have in a long time, or that we've had in a long time..., we look at it with a certain distance and I don't know very clearly that we have to take advantage of it, yes or yes, in the best way possible, protecting everyone's interests, but, to be sure, take advantage of it. And, therefore, this is the motivation to bring this inquiry, with which we will present a motion in which we must be able to arrive at a very clear position and send a very clear message of: "We have already made a decision: we want the expansion of the airport. And now let's talk about how we do it, what we're claiming from AENA, what we're claiming from all the institutions affected and how we're managing this because it's the best solution accepted by everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.3.0	Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Congresswoman, you're asking me today about the airport model of Catalonia, but you're just telling me about the Prat airport, huh? For you the other airports seem to be that they do not exist, and I think it would be good, too, that this should have the tingues in its integrity. I think that when we talk about the Prat airport and what solution we have to give to the Prat airport, which is obviously the main airport in Catalonia and, in fact, is one of the two most important airport infrastructures in Europe – which certainly in 2019 recorded its record number of passengers, 52_million passengers, and which will certainly also be increased at the time of recovery of the pandemic situation we have –... but we also think that what we want to do here is above all to find an airport solution for this country, huh? And, therefore, here are other airports that need to be played, too, so an important role. It is obvious that Barcelona and Catalonia are great tourist attractions, and also, therefore, economic attractions of our country. And we've always said... and in that, obviously, we disagree with Mrs. Colau, huh? : We don't want tourists to come to Barcelona, we don't want tourists to come to Barcelona. We'd like these tourists, obviously... that it was a tourism that wasn't cheap, that it was a tourism of more quality; so, the tourists that came, huh? Leave more tickets to our country. And, therefore, we will work on this line. But Catalonia also counts with start-ups, start-ups, start-ups; in Catalonia, there is the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona. And so, finally, we believe that these infrastructures must also be at the service of what a dynamic economy means. And we would obviously like the Prat airport to be more than that, perhaps, which in the past has been overly touristic in that sense. In short, we make a clear bet for an airport hub solution, huh? And I insist that you only talked about Barcelona airport. We obviously believe, therefore, that in order to become this airport hub, obviously, in the first place, that the Prat airport is an intercontinental airport, and today the availability of runways..., as is the technical solution that gives answer, say, to this possibility, is not possible. And, therefore, we believe that we have to work to adapt... with investments that allow us to achieve this objective. That should be a shared objective. We're flying intercontinental flights. We want people all over the world to be able to come to Barcelona, obviously, because a part of our economy and the economy above all is technological in nature. We also need the airport to be efficient and efficient, with an adequate level of service and punctuality for the infrastructure it represents. This today, too, in the current technical situation that the airport has, which was designed for the ninety operations/hour..., today is not possible, huh? And, therefore, what we have to do is make it possible for what we have already said, therefore, that this airport should aim. We also need this to continue and to be consolidated as an airport, obviously... that it is not just passengers, that it is also a commercial airport. In this sense, we also need to make it possible for goods to be an important asset at this airport. I, too, defend that the airport must be environmentally responsible. This means that the current guidelines are being completed and that the necessary alternatives are being put in place to make an environmentally compatible growth. In fact, it seems to me that it was La Vanguardia a few days ago, that President Von der Leyen came out on the front page, saying clearly that – and I will read his words – "those who emit carbon dioxide must pay. Therefore, we are in a clear process of decarbonization of our mobility in its conjunction. Therefore, the Prat airport and the airports in Catalonia also have to work on this line. We must, in this sense, also be socially responsible for the environment. We also ask for transparency. I say why AENA..., the last figures we have of economic information respect to the airports of the State dated 2014, huh? And those figures already said that the Prat airport was the one that generated the most benefits of the State. We believe that the 2014 figures must have increased, and, therefore, these investments that are now promised are not a gift, they are an obligation. It seems as if here, now, suddenly, they come to give us a few million, when this is the most profitable airport in the State. So they're not giving us anything. We also want – I mentioned the Catalan airport system – to see the airports of Reus and Girona covering the needs of their respective areas, whether touristic, commercial or business. In this sense, this will only be possible, when we think of this airport system, if we are able – and therefore also the State is able – to develop the rail connectivity investments of these airports that obviously make them competitive and support airports, in this case Barcelona airport. That's why... and here, Congresswoman, you are part of a group that has a nodrid representation in the Congress of Deputies. So listen, if you're in favour of all this, help the Prat airport to be transferred to the Generalitat, it's transferred to Catalonia, and we can manage the Prat airport. Well, not just the generality, but with the conjunction, say, of our country's economic and social fabric. Therefore... to do a proximity management of this airport, which will certainly allow us to attend to much better who are the economic needs of our country. We will ask him, and we hope that his political group will also support us in this endeavour. There was no comment – and neither did you – on another airport, which is Lleida airport. I am saying this because the question is about the airport system in Catalonia, so I would like to make a brief reference to it in the short time I have left. We are working to convert Lleida airport into an industrial airport, a reference for space trials; in this case, for example, into a port, which is this concept related to how the new space industry can help generate jobs. Here, in fact, there will be evidence of propulsion for the launch of space vehicles, and it will also be, therefore, a trading and education park for companies and research centres related to the space world, which can be established there. This is our bet, which we are making at these times for Lleida-Alguaire airport. Therefore, we want to have an extensive visit of what is Catalonia's airport system. And, therefore, when you ask me directly about these investments and what this airport project must mean, I will make it very clear: we defend investments in Prat, obviously, but they are not a gift, they are an obligation of the State, as it is the most profitable airport in Catalonia. Obviously, also, our commitment to having the three airports connected at high speed. I also hope that they will bring us back on this initiative. I wouldn't have felt that we were just talking about the Barcelona airport. We work for a joint visit to the country. And obviously, we too have an in-house look at the sustainability of the solution. And the first thing we ask is that we have to work hard for the decarbonization of our mobility, which we are already doing in the field of land transport, land mobility, but we also believe we have to do it in the airport area, in the airport area as well. In short, we have constituted a technical_table – this space of dialogue between the different administrations – with a clear objective, that it is to have the consent of the territory; that the solution that is finally adopted for Prat allows to have many presences these environmental elements and, therefore, to find the technical solution that can be made possible, and to work because, above all, this airport is an intercontinental airport and connects the other two airports that I have already mentioned. In short, we are working in the context of the airport system, for which I say three themes: for an airport that fosters talent, technology and work. Only if we are a connected country, a country with a vertebrate territory, can we ultimately be a country of progress in the 21st century. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.5.0	And now, in the turn of the line, Congresswoman Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.6.0	Thank you, President. Thank you for your answer, counselor. I have to start by saying that discriminating from Mrs. Colau is always good. [[the speaker laughs]] I can assure you that, and that's what we agree on. It also coincides with you that the airport does not have to have only a tourist visit. I believe that, really, in this aspect, great groups here can get to hear us, or at least most groups can get to hear 'n if they get to consensus on which model they really can hold. I welcome the demonstration that you made – in fact, I pointed it out literally – in which you said: "Yes, we want to be an intercontinental hub. That's a great statement. And I celebrate it, I applaud it, and I am glad that you make this statement here today. But this must be transferred to AENA, because this roundness with which you have said: "Yes, we want to be an intercontinental hub must be on the table of AENA with a clear consequence, which is: "Now you, lords of AENA, must change the project so that it is sustainable ecologically. That's what we agree on, that's what we need to get to work on. But it's important that this isn't in this area. This yes and clearly must not remain only here, it must be moved; I don't know if directly to AENA, I don't know if in this technical table there is also AENA. I haven't just explained what conclusions have been drawn from these three meetings of the prisons; let's hope, one day, to know. I imagine they are advancing in the search for agreements on the basis of this statement made by you, that the Government of the Generalitat does want to have an intercontinental hub. I didn't just talk to him about Prat airport; I talked about strengthening the airports of Reus and Girona. I also agree with what you said: strengthen the railway lines to boost these airports. Of course I do, of course I do. I didn't tell him about Lleida because he's more underutilized; we need to look at what we're doing, sense of doubt. I've talked about Reus and Girona because they're a few points that can go very well interconnected with being an intercontinental hub. But the reality is that our airport system will be marked by the decision that we make with the Prat airport, and that will determine which model we do with the others, what we do with the other airports: how we strengthen the other airports, how we divert flights... From this base, from being clear what happens to this airport from here in Prat, so we can determine the rest. In which I do not agree with you it is in fact to ask someone who invests 1,700_million euros, who makes a million-dollar investment to modify or expand the Prat, and after they give it to you. I mean, that doesn't happen to anyone. With a fael « dear... I already understand that you want it (prayer laughs) ; it seems to me... The letter to the King always has to be asked; but, with all due respect, that is not possible. That is to say, when someone makes an inversion of more than 1,700_million euros..., they can't make the inversion, lay the money of their butxaca and then make it the embolized gift, and... « Here you have it. They will say to him, "Listen, if you want the airport management, then you do the reverse and you'll be blown away. That's hard enough for us to come up with a consensus, and I'm telling you so clearly; I get used to being clear enough with my positions, I don't cheat, and I can't see that. In any case, I'm left with the part that we do agree with, with the part that I think we share, that's a lot more than we don't share, at this point. And they do ask you that the fact that there is a replica of... : "No, we will not give you 1,700_million euros, as you will have to understand..., that this is not what prevents the ability to value what we gain from this investment of 1,700_million euros. Because we can't sell the speech of: "There are some gentlemen here who own 1,700_million euros, to get a benefit...; certainly, they do, but we also, like the country. And we have to stay with the benefit we bring to this country, from this reversal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.7.0	I, to make the reply, have the words of the Vice President and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.8.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, either I didn't explain it to me or you didn't understand me. I specifically said, concretely, that we do not want gifts. I think... look, actually, it's very easy, huh? Let Catalonia collect its taxes, and therefore, let us remove this fiscal deficit of 20,000_million, recently recalculated, which we have with the State, as well as the infrastructure deficit, which, in fact, marks the third additional provision of the State and which has never subscribed, and listened, we will not have to demand that we make no reversal, eh? We don't have to ask. So what we're saying is that it's not a gift – it's not a gift – it's an obligation. It's an obligation that the State has with this infrastructure to make this reversal, which it should have done long ago. So, either I didn't explain it well enough or you didn't understand me. Anyway, welcome, obviously, this reversal. We are not the ones who will block this reversal with this idea, in short, I repeat, that we do not share – in this case, with the group of the commons or with some other group of the chamber – that we do not want a tourist sun to come here. We don't share this idea of the world. We understand that when tourism is a quality tourism is good for the country, it generates tickets, activates our economy. And, therefore, we work in this sense. But obviously, we don't just want this to be an airport where, in its integrity, flights are flights that are low-cost, that is flights... where only the willingness to increase the number of flights is projected, huh? What we want is, obviously, the best you want, in this sense. And, I insist, you form part of a group that has in Madrid, or tendria, the ability, in the end, to work because it is done this way and then we don't have to ask for these investments, but we can do them directly. Because we would have the capacity to make decisions about the airport, and therefore we would certainly decide them in this chamber, together with the economic and territorial fabric of our country, and it would be much simpler, we would not be dependent, in this sense, on a decision of one of us as in this case, AENA, or of the same Spanish State. Join this initiative of the transfers that we ask for from the Generality, that it is obviously not only in the airport area, but also in the rolling stock and other infrastructures, so that we can manage the infrastructures of our country from Catalonia. They're doing this, and obviously it's gonna be easier. Finally, let me..., that yesterday there was the third meeting of the technical table, and, therefore, I do not yet have the conclusions to which it came, but we will know that soon. And, therefore, the objective is that, based on this dialect... we understand that it is necessary that the assemblies involved, that the institutions involved..., that the economic fabric of this country has something to say about what it must be, therefore, at this airport, because we play it, in a way, as the future of air mobility will be in the next few years. And, I insist, this vice president and advisor of Digital Policies and Territories will defend the position he has defended, which is nothing other than based on this concept, therefore, of an airport, obviously, competitive. And because it has to be an intercontinental airport, it has to be an airport that goes beyond the concept of low-cost or low-cost airport. And it also has to be an airport that has a lot of sustainability in all its senses and in the wide range of what sustainability means today, and, above all, what makes reference to the decarbonization of mobility, which is surely the best contribution we can make in the fight against climate change. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.9.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Interview with the Government on urban policies for social and environmental recovery in vulnerable barrels]] [[300-00030/13]] Let us now turn to the agenda item, which is the question to the Government about urban policies and social and environmental recovery in vulnerable barrels. He has been presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, and now has the word Mr Marc Parés to make the presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.10.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor, councillor. Well, today we're interviewing the President's Counsellor to talk about comprehensive intervention policies in barrels or vulnerable urban areas. As you know, our group, in fact, has proposed this intervention at the Digital and Territorial Policies Council, but this council is not only behind the housing policies, but also those of barrels. And we decided to ask you basically for two reasons. The first is because the focus of our intervention on vulnerable barrels is an integral and, therefore, cross-cutting focus, and we understand that it affects the government's conjunction – as I will try to degregate – with social, environmental, urban, etc. policies. And the second, therefore, because effectively the barrels affect the local world, and it is its competence, all that it has to see with the local world. Anyway, I do have to tell them – and, look, I have them both here. [[the timer riu]] – that we are concerned that the so-called "urban agenda" has been diluted or fragmented in the new organization chart of the Government, and, therefore, that it is no longer a priority. In any case, and already entering into subject matter, the focus that we wanted to put in this inquiry was on one of the two great forms of territorial segregation that we are experiencing in Catalonia, which is what we call residential segregation. In other words, the tendency to separate social groups over the territory as a result of income and market inequalities in housing or urban and urban situations in different territories. A dynamic that ends up causing those most vulnerable social groups, those most popular classes, to reside in those barrels where there are fewer infrastructure, fewer resources, fewer equipment, and, therefore, in the worst urban conditions, and, therefore, in a dynamics of feedback from vulnerability. As you know perfectly well, counsel, the other form of territorial segregation or expression of inequalities over the territory is the one that has to do with the defects of the proper urbanization process, and therefore the one that generates inequalities between the urban, dense, metropolitan Catalonia and the rest of the territory, is to say, the rural Catalonia, the interior Catalonia, the Catalonia of the small municipalities. On this other type of inequality, our parliamentary group has already made a proposal for a territorial equity law in the past parliamentary term which we hope can be dealt with in this. On all fronts, as much as today we want to focus on urban inequalities at the bar level, it did want to emphasize the fact that what differentiates between one and the other types of intervention is not so much the old distinction between the urban world and the rural world, but the scale of intervention. And, therefore, in one case we are talking about a supralocal territorial scale – in these last ones that he referred to – while in another case we are talking about an infralocal scale of intervention, at bar level. Therefore, with what I want to say or what I would also like to put in store is that, beyond this and that in Catalonia 236 vulnerable areas have been identified for the Generalitat, the majority of which around the axes of the Besòs and Llobregat in the metropolitan area, this problem actually affects the country's neighbourhood, not just the metropolitan municipalities. It also affects middle cities, capitals of the region and even small municipalities. And, of, made barrels like the Barres of the Escodines in Manresa, the Barres of the Remei and the Habitatages Montseny to Vic or the Barres of the Erm and the Habitatages of Can Garcia to Manlleu, to put some examples of a reality close to both you and me, therefore, in serious some of the cases. Therefore, it is not only in the metropolitan area, where we have to act in vulnerable barrels, but it is at the border of the country. Well, as you know, more than fifteen years ago, Law 2/2004 came into force, known as Barrel Law, a law that for us was a historical tape, because it allowed us to face a situation of strong vulnerabilities in barrels with social and urban problems. Thanks to the creation of that foundation, the year 2004 was to promote a program to promote the barrels with more than four_ thousand performances in cent_disset municipalities, with a total reversal of more than 1,300_million euros during the six years in which this program worked. Last March, however, the last programs of the last call, which was the year 2010, were completed, with which the Generalitat in reality carries a decade without an active policy in matter..., an urban policy of intervention in the vulnerable barrels. And it's not just that, it's just that the programs that were there have already been turned off, and so now there's no initiative in that direction. And we want to know, Counselor, what are the plans of the new Government to deal with these problems, to this reality, if they have them; if not, then we will make some proposals to them, which our group does have. Because our feeling is that, of course, while the generality has been abandoning urban policies all this time, there are other administrations that have laid down their batteries. The Barcelona Assembly since the year 2016 is driving its own plan of barrels intervening in the Eix del Besòs, Nou Barris, la Verneda, the Good Shepherd ; also the Teixonera, the Carmel, Can Baró, the Gothic, the Raval, the Poble Sec, the Marina del Port, the Marina del Prat vell, etcetera. Therefore, the Local Assembly is acting. But, as I said, this is a country problem, and not just from Barcelona. In fact, in the Echo of the Kiss it's pretty obvious as the line, the municipal boundary, doesn't mark the boundary of urban problems. But it's also that the metropolitan area has approved its 2020-30 rehabilitation metropolis plan, the Barcelona City Council has incorporated this line into its portfolio... Therefore, what is missing is that the Generalitat also activates resources in this sense. And now we have an opportunity, because the Next Generation funds operate this new opportunity, because they provide €6,800_million for urban rehabilitation. This is sometimes what was the Urban II programme of the European Union. So it's a lot of resources. And the Ministry for the Ecological Transition and the Democratic Repte published its expression of interest..., a program of rehabilitation activities at the level of bars for the implementation of the Spanish urban agenda, we previewed a game of 1,000_million euros that will be transported through the instruments of the autonomous communities. And that, as I said, opens up opportunities. And to do that, what we need is an instrument that allows us to channel these resources, and to Catalonia we have it, which is the law of barrels of the year 2004. So what we're proposing to you and what we're asking you is whether we're going to use this instrument; whether or not you're going to open a new call with the same law of the year 2004, and if you're going to, then, adjust it to the characteristics of the current society..., but if you're going to take advantage of this law to convey the resources of the Next Generation fund through a new call that allows us to effectively intervene in vulnerable barrels, right? At the same time, however, we also believe..., that is to say, beyond the need for us to think that a new call should be made with the 2004 law, we also believe that we are ahead of a new reality with problems and that, therefore, new answers are coming. And so what we're defending is a new law of barrels, a law of green barrels, right? These new problems... obviously, the most recent is the pandemic, which has put in full, has put in manifesto, isn't it? , as vulnerable barrels are the most affected by the effects of the pandemic in terms of health, also in terms of mental health, but also in terms of economics, in terms of maturity, training, labour market, right? Because they are barrels with a high density, with a lot of infra-habitat, with little public space or bad conditions, and therefore barrels where confinement has been very hard, isn't it? And we ask him if from the generality they will push some mechanism to deal with the reality of these barrels and the effects that the pandemic is having on them, if they have any initiative in terms of salvation to the barrel, community salvation, etc. And the second big challenge we face, the current society, is all it has to do with climate change, which is not so recent, which has been on the table for years. And it's obvious that we need to push for an economic transition. And these are barrels where the conditions of housing, buildings... have huge energy deficiencies, from the point of view of energy efficiency. And in that sense, so, too... And they're also barrels where the poor energy is particularly affected. And we ask him, therefore, whether they have any initiative in this sense, or whether these barrels – and this is the fear we have – will ultimately be left out of the energy transition, right? And, therefore, we believe that what we cannot afford is that the most vulnerable barrels are also left out of the energy transition, among other things because, as I said, the housing stock we find there requires a strong reversal in terms of better energy efficiency. Well, as you know, the conference of United Nations Habitat III, of Quito, of the year 2016, already showed the need to address urban problems from new social and environmental perspectives. And here we believe that there are three large dimensions of change that can be held on the table. The first is a scale dimension. We are in a global-local relationship, and therefore we need to act at scale level, but at the same time we also believe that we need a country visit and that, therefore, we also need to overcome the strictly municipal visit in many cases. For example, in the area of housing, a country-wide housing policy should be planned. It cannot be that we plan our public habitats only in these barrels, so that we will reinvigorate these dynamics of segregation. And I'd like to have a look at the city halls. A recent study, for example, found that the cities of the second metropolitan crown – Mataró, Granollers, Vilanova, Vilafranca, Sabadell and Terrassa – are accentuating these dynamic segregations. There is no population leaving its most immediate clouds, there is a new vulnerable population, but, in change, they are municipalities in which, therefore, they have a large deficit from the point of view of financing: they have little financial autonomy, they have a low tax base, and therefore they need to intervene. Well, in any case, on the second part of the intervention, I will try to focus a little more on the changes that we believe are on the table and also put forward some proposals that we believe should be this new green barrel bill. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.11.0	Now, to make the answer, the speaker of the Presidency, Laura Vilagrà, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.12.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. We all know perfectly well the crisis situation in the country; the health crisis, which has triggered a profound social, economic and also a silent emotional crisis. And, in fact, we were already coming from a crisis that began in 2007 that we had not yet passed and that left us, therefore, many families, many people in between. And to these we must also add a democratic crisis that threatens to chronize. They are interconnected crises that need to be addressed from a global perspective in order to respond to the complexity that surrounds them. The covid-19_has caused a very deep crisis, an external shock to the economy, with an important impact in terms of job losses or the fall of gross domestic product. And at these times, therefore, the rate of time is still very high, around the twelve_per_cent– two points over a year ago–, which affects much more women– with a fourteen_per_cent– or young people– with a thirty-three – and still with ninety-thousand people in ERTO, and, for another band, many autonomous people who have lost their business, who have had to close their business or who have stopped working during the months. So, as we say, we're already on some important levels of poverty and inequality, and the effects of the pandemic have only made this social crisis worse. And, therefore, it is obvious that we must respond urgently to this situation which has been accentuated, and especially in barrels or in towns that are already from a high degree of vulnerability. In this sense, we believe, indeed, that Catalonia needs a sack to overcome the enormously complicated situation that we live at all levels – health, social, economic – and to open a new stage with a new way to govern much more closely, with the majority value that must inspire us, that it is to give opportunities to everyone so that no one is left behind, especially those who find themselves in a more vulnerable situation. Catalonia, therefore, needs to move forward again to a future of more prosperity, better welfare, more freedom and, indeed, more happiness for everyone, and, therefore, to make those transformations that we all know from a social point of view, from a gender perspective, from a green transformation. In this sense, I would like to place their social flag to ensure that we all have a decent home and work, to guarantee everyone health and education with an economic model that guarantees equity and equal opportunity and ensures prosperity and well-being. All of us are part of a bar, a ravalry, a nucleus or a people, and, in this sense, to avoid segregation, as you mentioned, in a community work, effectively; a collaborative work with the whole network of actors involved; a participatory, democratic, institutional work, and community action to intervene and create spaces for relationships that allow us to contribute better in the conditions of life of the citizens of Catalonia. The transformative vision is the values that inspire us. Therefore, co-creating inclusive spaces, giving response to new social needs. For one band, the social flag; but for the other, the green transformation, to set cool and begin to urgently reverse this climate emergence, which obviously cannot wait. Face the transformation of the energy model by making a determined bet for the green economy and, above all, by promoting a cultural change on how we produce and consume in this society. Therefore, they are transformations that, in effect, have to affect the southern Catalonia, without exclouring 'nunu' and without leaving any territories, neither, back. And if today I answer to this question is also for the municipalist gaze, as we said, because many of the responses also come from the hands of the municipal world, but also because the councillorship of the Presidency is a bridge council, it is an interdepartmental coordination council that drives and ages because the government works in this integral and cross-cutting vision to give answers in general to the situation we live in. Therefore, and speaking of concrete aspects..., because when you talk about urban, social and environmental policies in vulnerable barrels, we think that, in fact, a lot of work has already been done or a lot of work planned. And in any case, I'm not going down to some of the examples. With the creation of the Working Group for the Guarantee of the Right to Habitat..., what they claim is to be a cross-cutting organ that addresses the different proposals that fall because, effectively, it guarantees this right to habitat. And in this sense, therefore, urban regeneration..., the Generality has a compromise and a long run in this sense. In fact, the Incasól is the execution of different housing promotions, and the Habitatage Agency is in charge of public housing support and resettlement policies, especially for vulnerable families. In this sense, of a band, the Incasòl, like the execution of projects, has been a habitat manager that has promoted programs that have intervened in many barrels in Catalonia, and, in this sense, there has been even the replacement of more than 8,500 habitats that were in a situation of significant degradation. For another band, obviously, it is important to mobilize public only to make it actually available. And, in this sense, the Incasól, working together with the joints, makes the mobilization of these housing promotions and is destined to categorize as comparable..., and has to materialize in the next four years, because, effectively, the offer and the case demand. This legislature must represent a leap in the production of housing, and in any case, in the inn at the disposal of the citizens and the most vulnerable families of housing, and, consequently, the increase of this public park. And, obviously, we'll allocate the resources we need. For another band, and speaking of digital bretxa or optical fiber deployment – which is also an important topic in this sense – there is a compromise because in the approval of assumptions 2022 there are the resources needed to complete the deployment of the optical fiber public network, and is working intensively to get to cover the totality of the population or, in any case, the vast majority of the municipalities of Catalonia. But there are also other elements: a plan of action with active policies of occupation, the most ambitious plan that the Government of the Generality has pushed to fight the attunement, with 900_million euros that we will allocate to it. In this sense, 500,000 people will benefit – young people, women, seniors of forty-five years and people with disabilities, on a priority basis. I would like to recall the phrase of the esteemed Dolors Bassa, which said that the best social policy is a worthy job and, in any case, also, obviously, with a worthy son. In this sense, and speaking of a longer look, also what we are planting is a review of unsustainable urban growth, that is, reversal of only at these times, so, effectively, they have not been made available and there is no need for them to be there. But we're also talking about transforming the energy model. And in this sense, we are working to accelerate the deployment of renewables and this energy transition that is inevitable, as the Councillor always reminds us. In this sense, we will allocate after the summer €35_million to help in the installation of photovoltaic plates to support the communities of life. We calculate that 2022 will be able to subsidize thirty per cent of the cost of 2,500 installations. Therefore, we will make an important bet. But we know, all of us here, that obviously to turn it into finance and resources. And in this sense – you have begun to point it out – the deployment of European funds will be very important to finance some of these projects. The Government of the Generality, in fact, considers at these times that it is possible to focus the efforts of all administrations on the management of programmes linked to these foundations, without prejudice that in the future it is possible to initiate a process for the approval of a new standard framework or a programme of action in particularly vulnerable barrels; however, in coherence with this position, the actions of the Generality and the municipal administrations will be at these moments linked to these foundations. And, in this sense, we submitted attachments to the royal decree regulating this aspect, because we wanted one of the twenty-six priority projects of the Generality to be this urban agenda for the revitalization of urban habitats. And we have two important projects: the Rehabilitation, which is a plan that structures a public support mechanism for the rehabilitation activities of 25,000 habitats in the year – therefore, it is a very ambitious proposal – and here we prioritize the energy efficiency of buildings. But also from the Generality we have submitted allegations because there are other important aspects that seem very relevant to us, such as accessibility aspects – because, as you know, many habitats still have accessibility problems – but also structural disorders. It seems to us that these European foundations also vagina in the line, let's say, to solve these pathologies. In any case, there is also another project, which is the urban sustainability plan, the objective of which is to create a foundation for the green urban regeneration plan, providing presupposed resources for the co-financing of projects linked to cultural heritage, resulting in a return on tourism, social and economic issues. And, therefore, we also bet heavily on it. In any case..., and here I think they can help us focus so that we can include and land the view of this territory, the view of the municipalities, in the execution of these foundations, and therefore make it possible for us to develop these two projects that I was commenting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.13.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And now, in the turn of the line, Mr. Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.14.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's disagree on a few questions. You say they do things... we think not so many. He told me about the Incasole. The Incasòl is now promoting thirty-six habitats throughout Catalonia; the Barcelona Assembly, 2,300. Therefore, the intensity of the action we believe could be much higher, and this is what we claim. Secondly, we agree with some of the proposals that you have put on the table, but what we are putting in place is that there are territories in this country that are particularly vulnerable and require full intervention. Therefore, it is not only a matter of promoting solar plates for all buildings, which is very good, but also of focusing on these territories, specifically because they have a set of problems that require full intervention. And a law of barrels is exactly what it does, that is, to identify the most vulnerable areas and act in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way in these territories. The channeling of the Next Generation Foundations we believe, therefore, that it could take advantage of this. And, in fact, we could take advantage of the law that we already have in Catalonia, even though it's the year 2004. And, therefore, what we are asking is for a new call to focus resources in those territories, in those areas, which are most vulnerable. I was talking to him before three big changes – I said – that there are on the table, I think, right now. One is the question of scale; therefore, the import of the local world, but with this dimension of articulating the different sovereignties and the different levels of government. The second I think is an element of complexity. That is to say, there is much more complexity, much more vulnerability, and this is shown specifically in problems that are barren from the contexts of format, social, labor, economic. And, therefore, I must intervene in all these areas. And here I want to highlight how are the women who have carried the most in the healing tasks during the pandemic, also those who suffer a greater job vulnerability, also those who are often discriminated against in the use of public spaces or equipment, and, therefore, the need to intervene also in these territories with a gender perspective. And the third element I believe is that it is the role of the citizenry, and therefore we are addressing interventions not only with the municipalities, but also with the communities, with the citizens, and therefore promoting forms of collective self-organisation to deal with the collective problems. Because, in the end, we have to get the citizens who live in these barrels to stay, to live, not to leave and not to expel them, because this is another problem we have, that some of these territories also suffer from the problem of gentrification. It is necessary to govern urban transformations. It's to say, if we invest in these territories, it doesn't have to be because at the end of the day, we come from higher classes than they expel because of an income factor the lives they now live in, but we have to get them to see and live the lives they live in. It was proposed: our parliamentary group has registered a proposal for a barrel law. It is a law of green barrels, through which we propose to create a new foundation of urban and environmental social recovery of barrels and vile, pursuing four great objectives. The first is to improve living conditions in barrels with greater urban, social and environmental vulnerability, with special attention to women, health and the effects of climate change. Secondly, to deal with the urban handicaps involved in public space, equipment, green infrastructure, but also entering the habitats, which did not make the previous law of barrels, and therefore entering the habitats to improve them from the point of view of energy efficiency, conditions of habitability, and actually implementing a determined social housing policy that solves the problems and that is innovative; therefore, not only with the promotion of public habitat intended for the logger, but also with new forms such as cooperative housing in cessation of use. The third objective: to recover and promote the economic activity of the barrels strengthening community occupation, the social and solidary economy, co-operativeism, proximity trade, local industrial activity. Therefore, measures that allow these territories to remain territories where there is also occupation and where there is economic dynamism. And the fourth objective, which for us is key and has to see with what he was commenting on right now, is the community dimension, and therefore the involvement of the veins and the veins, in an organized way, for the claim of their rights and the satisfaction of their collective needs. That's why we think we need to intervene in three areas: urban, housing and energy efficiency, for a band, right? In the field of economic transition, and in the field of inclusive community action. In the proposal for a barrel law that we have registered we have a whole battery of proposals that we have on the table in order to be able to intervene in these territories, from the creation of local energy communities to intervention in the energy deficiency, the barrier of uses, digitalization, investment in equipment, sustainable mobility in internal key of the barrels, the improvement of environmental services, green infrastructure, food sovereignty... Therefore, there are many camps in which we can intervene. And what we're asking is: we're doing territorially focused actions in those barrels, in those territories that most need it to reverse these dynamics of inequality and spatial segregation, that is, expressing inequalities over the territory, which we believe is what we need to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.15.0	To make the reply, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.16.0	Well, thank you, President. Mr. MP, well, as I said before, only in a year and a half has our country's economic and social situation changed or worsened as we could not have imagined before the pandemic. In any case, we believe that it is not possible to copy and paste the law of the year 2004, but rather to make a deep reflection. In this sense, if you ask me if there is a new investment cycle in the urban fabric from this year 2021, then I'm sure I will say yes. But in any case, let's look at how to do it, and before we start to create a new standard framework, let's stop thinking, assessing and seeing how it has worked so far in terms of social cost-benefits. We must always carry out an ex ante analysis of public policies, but in any case also ex post, and in this sense we can now do a good analysis of the 2004 barrel law and invest resources in the most correct way possible; therefore, assess the impact in social terms. In this sense, we also value the barrel law that was approved in 2004 and that developed in recent years. It allowed to equip and transform many urban areas that at that time were very lacking in resources and investment. This law was approved with the aim of reversing the deterioration of barrels and reducing the territorial imbalance acting not only on urban issues, but also in a social, economic, environmental, and intervention program that basically aimed at curbing urban degradation, improving people's living conditions, developing the barrier, trade, training – indeed – social cohesion, developing associations and living entities, reducing – obviously – the inequalities and stigmatization of the barrels... And in this sense, therefore, 143 barrels will benefit, with an inversion of 1,123_million euros, so that the total will not be executed, which were about 1,300_million euros planned. In any case, the execution was a eighty-four_per_cent. In this sense, he also went by barrels; it is to say, some of them were able to execute the cent_per_cent, others did not arrive more than fifty, depending on the level of maturity of the proposal. But, in any case, almost a million people can benefit, with a significant inversion per inhabitant. In this sense, I would like to say that we do not have to start the house on the roof, and therefore, in any case, we have to bet on this rehabilitation of the housing stock with more difficulties, especially following criteria related to environmental sustainability and seeking that, in effect, housing becomes a key to social cohesion, but we want to do so by analysing well, planning well, keeping clear all available resources and making it the best use. Also incorporating the perspective of the 2030 Agenda and the objectives of sustainable development: therefore, elements of poverty, equity, sustainability, equality, but also alliances, and, in this sense, the alliances that we need to establish are very important. And that is why, in fact, the social rights councillor has already expressed in committee that this future plan of barrels should, in any case, be placed on the mark of a debate to be opened in a new national pact for housing, and in this sense we would place this proposal. Therefore, it is a matter of managing resources well and making public policies as appropriate as possible. Therefore, I am sure that in this way we have many shared objectives, from your parliamentary group and from the government; that we will find ourselves there. We will work hard to effectively take advantage of these European resources that we have spoken about before. We have to negotiate what has to be the best mark to be able to invest it. We need to coordinate well in this work. And the objective, obviously, is to improve the lives of the citizenry to provide them from what are basic needs, right? , from very basic themes, such as housing, decent occupation..., but also these social needs of inclusive community that we all need for our personal development. So, I like to talk a lot about this pyramid of Maslow, which goes from what is most needed, which is more basic, until it is needed for security, but also social needs that we all have to feel raised in a proper environment, and, in the end, also this personal need for self-realization, self-esteem and good feeling. Therefore, in this sense, we share a good part of the objectives. Of course we can work in our own months to make effective, so all these public policies important to the country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.17.0	Let's move on to the new order of the day, which is the question to the Government about the situation of the young woman, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. [[Asking the Government about the situation of the young woman]] [[300-00029/13]] The word is made out by the deputy Antonio Gallego, to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.18.0	Good morning, everyone. Madam Councillor, the VOX Parliamentary Group presents this question because we are concerned about the Catalan and Spanish youth, right? : their problems, their perspectives, their longings, their way of understanding society. We therefore want to help create the conditions necessary for them to build their vital project, develop themselves personally and professionally, and form a family. Young people, who had already been touched by the previous crisis, see how the pandemic puts their aspirations at risk. With very few years of difference they have suffered two economic hecatombes which in many cases have conditioned their present and their future. Thousands of young Catalans have been chaining poorly paid scholarships and precarious temporary jobs for almost a decade; others, not even that. Sentenced to unemployment, to be maintained and assisted by their parents or tied to a small public subsistence aid, they look with impotence and indignation at a society that forgets about them, which seems to not listen to them, and for the first time they will see how their children will live worse than their parents. The crisis of the coronavirus and its economic consequences have affected the entire population, but it is a devastating cyclone for those between 18 and 30 years of age. The great recession of 2008 knocked down a generation of young people, and now the pandemic hurricane that blows is just a step away from taking them down. The social lift has slowed down, and we could even say that it could have been stopped. They are the generation of the double crisis, and to them is directed this inquiry that today presents VOX. The figures are tearing: almost forty per cent of every ten children under the age of 25 are unemployed in Catalonia, according to Eurostat data, compared to sixteen per cent in Europe. Much of this work is also under-employment and part-time work. Salaries have fallen more among the youngest in the last decade. The percentage of young people between twenty and twenty-nine years of age living with their parents in Catalonia has not stopped growing since 2010, and it is already growing eighty_per_cent, here in Catalonia, according to the Observatory of Emancipation. These figures show thousands of broken dreams and truncated plans for the future. We therefore have a moral obligation to respond to their problems. Intergenerational solidarity not only has to be practiced from the bottom up, but also from the top down. We must give them a hand and send a clear message of support and solidarity from the institutions. But above all, what we have to do is set in motion a powerful battery of actions to solve the situation. Raising awareness of the problem and using nice speeches is not enough. The young people of Catalonia are tired of empty words, unfulfilled promises, plans like the ones I heard this morning, pats on the back, political smoke and trips to Ithaca that do not solve their problems, right? These are issues that will certainly not solve anything at all. By the way, it is no coincidence that support for the process, for independence, is becoming less and less, is it not? Let us not fail them any more, Madam Counselor. They ask us to take action, to invest and to act. Catalan youth have dignity, strength and push. That is why they ask us to give them the fishing rod, and not the fish served on the table; works are love, and not good reasons. That is why from VOX we will fix in the motion after this interpretation a battery, as I said before, of very concrete proposals to turn the tortilla back to this situation. Regret if it's not an action strategy. We're not going to look away as we see them falling down, frustrated and irritated. Initiatives to reduce the social exclusion of young people will revolve around three axes. In fact, they could be summed up in three words: work, family and future. The first axis will be work and enterprise. We want to help access to first jobs; reduce precariousness, partiality and temporality; help them start and start businesses, tackle over-qualification and under-employment; avoid political messages that overprotect so-called 'ninis'; encourage talent retention; structural reforms in public employment services, and we will support entrepreneurs who bet on our young people. Secondly, in the motion we will talk about housing as a basis for family heritage and a centre for personal and social coexistence and development. That is where I think an important battery of measures needs to be promoted. I highlight only a few: increasing urbanizable land in Catalonia; more affordable housing; more rehabilitation, as was said before; better vertebrate Catalonia; some at least greater – because at the moment they are non-existent, almost – tax breaks for young tenants and tenants; credits endorsed by the Generalitat, and reducing the tax rate of heritage transmissions when the buyer is a young person. And we would also like to talk about training, because without that training it will be very difficult for these young people to be able to access a job that is reasonably positive for their life. Here we will talk about a shock plan to combat drop-out and school failure, which is at its peak, and we are very concerned about this; to strengthen the autonomy of our schools; to supplement the state scholarships; to help incentives to return to school in cases where it is necessary – and unfortunately the statistics tell us that there are more and more children or young people who leave their studies prematurely –; to strengthen the knowledge of foreign languages – for us is very important and for companies as well; it is suffering, Catalan society, Catalan youth, still a lack of mastery of foreign languages, and that is being demanded by the set of SMEs and large companies in Catalonia. The emphasis must also be placed on vocational training and business practices. We also, of course, want to see university tuition fees reduced once and for all and a much greater focus on issues related to new technologies. Therefore, they are very concrete proposals that you will see at your time, when the motion comes as a result of the interpellation. I hope that they will not answer me only by saying: "We will make a plan, we will make a plan and we will make a plan. Catalonia has plenty of plans, as the Dean of the University of Girona said the other day. He said: "There are still plans here. What is needed here is to invest, we need concrete lines of action, don't we? And we think these are the three great axes. The vice president used to talk about Maslow's pyramid, didn't she? And at the base of the pyramid, what is it? What is it? What are the issues that need to be resolved? From our point of view, to form oneself, to work and to be able to emancipate oneself. So, that's where we want clear policies on the part of the Generalitat de Catalunya. Thus, stop building fictitious nations and help young people more; less structures d'etat and more rent aids; less embassies for their'republiquette' and more official language schools; less moral indoctrination and more educational accompaniment. If the greatest misfortune of youth is not to belong to it, as Salvador Dalí said, its greatest frustration is to be in places where a disadvantage is supposed to be. And Catalonia has become one of them, and we have to work to reverse this situation. The picture is discouraging; it also has consequences that we still do not know in many cases, both in scope and depth. And what we do know is that they are not new problems, but structural and systemic, which require an urgent and radical approach, however complex it may be. So, Commissioner, let us no longer look elsewhere and land and prioritize these issues. The gap between the expectations promised and the opportunities available tends to continue to worsen, and perhaps is the most worrying thing about this issue: the normalization of this idea in the very minds of young people. The sequence« study, work, get married, buy a home, have children, retiree is still valid and the most desired. It is not true that young people have changed their will, as the writer Ana Iris Simon recently reminded us in her book Feria. So let us no longer encourage the intergenerational fracture that prevents society from moving in the same direction. Catalonia will face decades of stagnation and missed opportunities if it does not reverse a situation that has been aggravated by its management in recent years, unable to mobilize on issues that do not bring immediate electoral revenue. Spanish society has an outstanding debt to our young people, as our king Philip said. And I was right. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.19.0	To reply, the social rights advisor, Violant Cervera, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the truth is that he has made an inquiry to talk about the young woman who most of the time shares the parameters on which he has placed her. The problem is that, unfortunately, the situation of young women is not exclusive to Catalonia, but to the conjunction of the State, and, moreover, certainly also at European and international level. You were talking about precarious work, precarious housing. And I would add, in addition, the emotional problems that lead to young people and young people in our country, so that we cannot access their full life and emancipation at the time when our parents or ourselves were able to do so. The situation is complex. We, from the department and from the Government of the Generality, want to do everything possible to try to reverse this situation from the point of view of work – through SOC policies we have to work intensively because young people can access quality jobs and are well-paid – as well as in the business-to-business binomie and also the education world – we all know, when we go to different businesses, that many times we say that curricula do not match the needs that at this point in time are asking for businesses. There's another field to work on, which is the famous glass floor. Wage differentials between women and men are often because women go to some sectors of work and men go to others. We need to empower some of the other people who are likely to have more jobs. So it's true: there's a lot of work to do. When I spoke in my intervention of the national pact for young women... it is not a pact of peace with oil, but it is pacts where all the actors of society intervene, also the young people involved, because we do not understand that policies can do without taking them into account. He was also talking about emancipation and, above all, about housing policies. Since the Department of Social Rights, as I announced in my appearance, we intend to work in four large lines. One is for the most vulnerable. We believe that this is the priority. In the previous inquiry, the President's adviser also referred to housing policies. Another of our points of action will be housing policies for the great people. We understand that of this pact that we want to make of the new model of personal autonomy we need different housing policies according to the ages of the different citizens. Also politiques of habitating against depopulation. We don't want young people to leave their birthplaces, nor do we want them to go out looking for work. We do want you to... if you want to leave, then we'll go with you because you're leaving, but you don't have to. Therefore, habitating policies also aim to avoid this depopulation. And the fourth point, which is what you were also commenting on, is housing policies for young people. We think this is one of the priorities. That's what we're talking about, huh? : of training policies, work policies, emancipation policies, because all that entails, in the end, is another of the problems that you have not mentioned, which is the emotional problem of young people. Young people are immersed in a deep emotional crisis. By the time we got out of this crisis, it was still a lot harder. The crisis has impacted all sectors of society, but surely the most oblivious... We have taken care of many vulnerable people, the great people, and the young, like they are young and strong...., surely they require even more pre-eminent attention, and we need to work for this emotional greeting of the young. And that's why we also wanted to work together with the Health Department on these mental health jobs. Therefore, I share some of the actions that you thought were going to take a long time. Notwithstanding this, I will also detail some of the performances that have so far been long overdue. In the field of work, during the 20's and 21's, support was given to the needs of young people through various programmes, such as the Youth Guarantee programme, which gave guidance and support to young people in a situation of indulgence, especially those with more difficulties for employment. Youth self-employment has been promoted with grants for business projects and struggled to avoid dropping out of study with the New Opportunities program, recovering the gains of learning from thousands of young people who, for various reasons, have not found their place in the institutes and who, because of their age, are invisible to businesses. Also, in the edition of the singular projects, it gave orientation and training to almost three thousand young people to improve their skills and promote insertion into the labour market, and almost half of these young people entered the labour market afterward. Enguany wants to reach 3,800 young beneficiaries. Work contracts for young people have been stepped up, and the line of young guardians and extuteants of the Work and Training programme has facilitated professional experiences in this particularly vulnerable collection. The Odysseus programme has promoted the incorporation of young talent into businesses located in rural areas. The Young Labour Office has continued to provide youth work advisory services. And, as we say, in the field of housing, training has been scheduled in line for young professionals in this area, but we must continue to work to provide housing for the youngest. In another order of things... as he was also commenting on, in mental health issues for people between the ages of seven and twenty-nine years during the years 20 and 21 have intensified and designed new campaigns and actions, and prevention has been made of the risk conduits between the adolescent and juvenile population through the adolescent consultant. and the NitsQ program, which intervenes in the dark, to prevent risks associated with drug use. Enguany has started a work group on the prevention of juvenile suicide with the participation of persons expert in the theme, such as entities, the department of the Generalitat, persons expert in the matter... The aim of the group is to identify the need for public intervention for the prevention of juvenile suicide and to design actions to respect in a coordinated and aligned way with the national plan for the prevention of suicide, which is being developed. During the year 2021 the group met five times and concrete proposals have already been made in the field of research and training for young professionals and other agents working with young people. The expectations of a country's presence and future are also measured by its ability to connect with its infants and young people, and the national youth emancipation network has reached 324,578 consultations of various themes during the year 2020 and 123,446 consultations during the first half of the year 2021. Since the past year, the professionals of this network have been training in the fields of educational work and emotional, emotional and sexual health, in the field of housing and in the field of digital skills to help them adapt their services and programs aimed at young people to the new needs derived from the pandemic. They have adapted to the online mode workshops and mail addresses to young people also in the service portfolio. From the collection of children and young people in our country there is also a very specific group that has been working since our department, which is particularly vulnerable, and we are talking about young migrants alone. As you know, this is a new phenomenon and it is a specific situation that does not happen only in Catalonia. It is a migratory phenomenon that affects mostly young and young Moroccans between fifteen and seven years old, and which has become much more pronounced in the two years that have passed in our country. These young people arrive in our country with the legitimate aim of improving their living conditions, and, in the case of girls, despite the fact that the name is much smaller than that of the boys, they also emigrate to free themselves from the gender roles of their native countries. These children and adolescents have all the right to be joined together and to have their rights protected and promoted in accordance with the Children's Rights Convention, which sets out the following principles: non-discrimination, the best interests of the child, the right to survival and freedom of survival, and development. As UNICEF points out, in the first place and before all, they are infants. In these conditions of children and adolescents, some of whom may, moreover, be asylum seekers or asylum seekers, their higher interest is that of prevailing over their condition of immigrants and foreigners. Social rights are the combination of the rights of all people, regardless of their origin. I want to make it clear that social stereotypes in relation to these guys and girls don't fit in with reality. And, therefore, we will continue to work for its full integration as long as they arrive as smaller as when they are great, until they continue to be extolled by the Generality. I should like to point out the negative and vulnerable situations of these young people, with whom we will continue to work. And in the next part of the continuous intervention, to answer your questions, talking about this topic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.21.0	And then, to make the reply, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.22.0	Good. Thank you very much, Counselor. I thank him for the tone; indeed, I thank him for the tone with which he answered us. I think you have fully understood what we meant by the initial statement of the inquiry. What we are asking of you is, indeed, to put young people at the centre of the political agenda; little future will have Catalonia if they do not. A community that leaves its young behind compromises its future and puts its achievements at risk. That is to say, we ask that we work to ensure that young people have at least the same opportunities as we have had. I think you have said it in other words, and I agree with that. The alternative is their future in the hands of a disenchanted and resentful generation towards a country that betrays them. So, that must be avoided, of course. Then I have seen that you have, therefore, devoted a broad response to the position of the miners. Well, I guess they'll have written it to you."These VOX guys are going to talk to you about the minas... – and no, I haven't even mentioned it to you. I mean, you've told me that if the minors..., for two or three minutes, explaining... No, we've come to talk about the problems of youth. We are concerned about the problems of youth in general. Another day we will talk, without any problems, about what we think about the management of unaccompanied minors. I'm glad we share the diagnosis of the situation, more or less. What we ask of you, and we will ask you in the motion as a result of the inquiry, are concrete policies. It seemed to me that you were talking about promoting measures in the workplace that have helped 3,800 young people to join a job. It's a joke; 3,800 young people, at last, is an absolutely ridiculous figure. It is not about making a programme to help 3,800 young people and being able to say that you are concerned about young people in the workplace; it is about making a package of comprehensive measures that affect and help the vast majority of young people in Catalonia. It's a nun pinch, 3,800 people. We ask you to be much more ambitious. And then, finally, a final reflection. As you will have seen in the initial exhibition, our idea was to make a general reflection of the set of policies that have to be carried out to help the young people of Catalonia. We asked and will practically ask for a comprehensive plan. That is why, at the time, when we ask for the interpellation – and I do not have the will, let's say, to despise or reduce their presence and their intervention in this debate – we asked for the Vice-President's, because our approach is not only in terms of social policies, which is their area, but we asked that the Vice-President's, because we wanted to talk about what we talked about: digital policies, education, vocational training, housing, business, etc.. This..., really, it's not about catching the group of young people and saying, "Come on, let's do a few things so that the young people believe that the Generalitat is already close to the young people. No; it's about taking it, really, seriously. The problems are serious, and if they are not resolved, they will certainly have a very serious impact on social cohesion and on the vertebration of Catalonia. That is why we ask, and we will ask you again when it is necessary during this parliamentary term, that they be much, much, much more ambitious than they are. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.23.0	Then the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, before you told me you didn't want us to make any more plans and I don't know what, and you just asked me for one, which is... "that we want to make a comprehensive plan. Well, yes, welcome to politics, and to the politics that is done in this Parliament. When so many of the parliamentary groups as well as the government are setting up national plans, comprehensive plans, it is nothing more than the open and sincere willingness to talk to all actors to be able to do them among all, and above all to work on those issues that affect society mostly and to be able to do them, in a certain way, among all. You have come to explain to us what are the shortcomings that young people have in our country. I said I share them, and I think I share them practically everyone. We have a problem with work, we have a problem with housing, we have a problem with mental health, because they live in a different situation than we live in. This is a diagnostic we share. And I said that it is not exclusive to Catalonia, but that, unfortunately, it is exclusive to the other communities of the Spanish State and also at European level, and that the pandemic has done us a lot of damage and has made us all think about getting better in the second five subjects. I have made it a rest of which were the policies that were due to end in different spheres of action, and it is obvious that they are not enough. The young people's theme is in the Department of Social Rights, but not because there is a power of social assistance, but because we have three secretariats: one is the Department of Social Affairs and Families – where there are the most vulnerable people, the great people, the disabled... –, another is the Department of Housing and another is the Department of Children, Adolescents and Youth. Therefore, they are among the Department of Social Rights, but obviously all the policies that are fan are planted in a transversal way. That said, there is no department of the Generality that covers all youth policies, because, in some ways, it is not possible, as in most cases. Also the policies of woman and feminism are not all fan of the advice of Feminisms, but they are transversal, of all the departments of the Generality. And that's good. And the Government of Catalonia has very powerful tools, such as different interdepartmental spaces, where what it does is: precisely in these plans or national plans approved and approved between all and in which there are different areas of work, so each department simply develops its own. Could the Presidency Department have youth policies? Yeah, and no, it's the same. It would have ended the same way: also with some national plan and also with cross-cutting policies between the different departments. I've already announced in the appearance: we're not satisfied with the young people's situation today, and we want to do what we can to help them. And it is true that we have to work in a cross-cutting way from different points of view: from the Department of Education, from the Department of Work – with the SOC's work policies and policies to be able to emancipate at work level – from the Department of Social Rights – because we have the housing policies... Therefore, our intention is to be able to work together. And we would also like to be able to find some mechanism because these young people can also emancipate economically speaking. I mean, there are countries and there are European experiences... Let's go look for the best experiences so that we can incorporate them among our skills because these young people can not only emancipate because they have a habitat, but also because they can have a soul. As I say, our situation is this, the disgrace is what we have. He used to talk to her about the unaccompanied minors. It was nothing more than... they're part of our... I've done a rest of all the skills we had between, in this case, DGAIA, which is childhood. Because, I insist, we work for young people, teenagers and infants. And nothing, so wait till you see what your young lady is going to be. And if they want to lay down an integral plan, we will listen to what their proposals are. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.25.0	Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the question to the government about scholarships and university aid, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. [[Asking the Government about scholarships and university grants]] [[300-00036/13]] And Mrs Toronjo has the words of the honourable Member, Judith Toronjo, to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.26.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, before the beginning of my intervention, if I may, I would like to put in value how the young people of our country must be able to believe in a future of progress – we have not spoken in the framework of this debate – in the development of a life project, and do so through measures of economic recovery, but also of formation, occupation, national emancipation, mental health and a long etc. It is therefore essential to place all these young people in the centre of public policies, and to do so from a point of view, from a cross-sectional, cross-sectional, working with and for young people without criminalising them or labeling them for their political thinking, for their speech or for their origin. We want to live in a free and equal society. And that's why it's necessary for all institutions to rem, legislate, and govern for all of them. For this reason too today I refer to our commitment – from Junts to Catalonia – to give our support to all young people, to all young reprisals..., many of the university students who see threats with totally disproportionate penises. Entering the subject, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia today we address this inquiry to the Research and University Councillor, Gemma Geis, to reiterate precisely the failure of the Spanish Government since 2001 on the transfer of scholarships, a competence recognized for the proper State, for the Court of Auditors and for the Spanish Courts. For this reason, a few weeks after the beginning of the 2021-2022 university academic course, to which more than thirty-thousand students – more than thirty-thousand young students – have added, it is necessary to talk about the situation of these university students and their opportunities in access to higher education through a model of fair scholarships that adapts to the reality with which they live in the family unit, but also to the territorial needs and occupation. Therefore, we want this inquiry to serve to denounce the failure of the State to comply with what we have been living with since the Government of Catalonia for years and years. On behalf of our group we bet – and we did so in the agreement of government with Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Left – on a system, precisely, of higher education that combines teaching, professionalism, research and the society of knowledge. But that's also why investment in education increases and places us in the middle of Europe, in countries of the European Union, with more advanced educational systems and in which we want to emmirate. Therefore, the ultimate objective is nothing other than to achieve a stable funding model that consolidates the financial autonomy that Catalan universities have, and to do so according to a general assumption that fits these needs and that also consolidates the Research and Universities Department with the reversal of the five_per_cent. It is therefore necessary to continue to improve the policy of equity of access in the selection of studies, also reinforcing the orientation, ensuring that the prices between the master and the degree are equal – which we have not discussed extensively in the debate of the plenary –; the elimination of the poor economics in the election of studies, which is one of the challenges that we also assume in this legislature. For another band, also the remuneration of compulsory practices, a historical claim of youth associationism and of which we have made many and many flags from the National Council of Youth of Catalonia with campaigns such as "Precautionary scholarships", or the impulse of paid scholarships, which will also be an important starting point. Thus, in order to consolidate the university system and the viability of its financing, it will continue to work in the implementation of a single and better system of scholarships managed exclusively for the Catalan Administration, for the Generalitat de Catalunya. Despite the fact that the Court of Auditors has repeatedly ruled in favour of it – it did so in 2001, 2006, it did so in 2016 – the Ministry has not yet given in to the management of this competence, because the Ministry currently still interferes and is unable to manage it decentralised that lowers the annual agreement between the Government and the State. But, to make it more simple, what exactly would this transfer of competence suppose? The distribution of the variable quantity of scholarships and aid in the hands of AGAUR would mean that the students would have the income of the scholarship at the time of making the journey, at the time of making the resolution, and would not be pending a transfer that widens over time and that currently causes some families to be unable to maintain or pay for this registration. But, unfortunately, we are not surprised: again, as in many other areas, the Spanish Government is unfair at the time of distributing resources. We also did not mention in the first hour of the morning, with the third additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy, about the infrastructural investment deficit, and with a large etcetera. In fact, if we pay the data, the year 2007 the percentage of students who could attend university studies thanks to a scholarship was twenty_per_cent; 2016, forty-four, and we are now almost fifty – with a 47,2_per_cent. A help that, like so many young people, has also allowed me to study a university career, but that certainly asks many other companies and companies that are found in the Chamber and that we are now contributing to making this Parliament a tool for a fairer society without leaving anyone behind. On this heaviness, it is also important today to pose on the table as the Spanish Government – "the most progressive government in history – is committed in its government agreement to accept the transfer of five recognized competences, and we are not yet waiting. And I insist – I have already done so by the Committee on Research and the Universities of Parliament – : we directly ask the forces, their political counterparts of this chamber, because it is for the benefit of the competitions and young students demanding the real transfer that belongs to the Generality of Catalonia. From Junts per Catalunya we'll continue to report it. We will continue to denounce this situation, an intentional situation, a situation of economic asphyxiation on the part of the Spanish Government as a strategy more to strain the relations between the State Government and the Catalan Government, and in which the only injured end up feeling the Catalans, ending up feeling the young and, obviously, also the talent of our country. It is, therefore, a direct attack on the university funding system and the finances of the Generality related to the fifty-two-per-cent independenceist that we represent this chamber and that we have the compromise to meet the democratic mandate of the U of October by means of a competence that should have been passed, as I said before, and so they have closed the sentences. But it is that the Spanish Government does not have, at present, absolutely any type of interest in which the Generality assumes greater capacity, and omits the feelings and complaints based on its own political interest, showing the high degree of failure and only taking into account the who. And I wouldn't want to end otherwise today that, too, continue to claim as precisely independence, become a free and independent republic, is and will continue to be the best instrument for the economic and social recovery of the country. Because, without any doubt, the best university policy, as you said, counsel, is to acquiesce in this national liberation, which allows us to manage our own resources, and to deploy a model of state that is uncomplicated by the progress of the society of knowledge and equal opportunities, also from the university world. And, waiting for your answer, Counselor, on the visit of the department for the transfer of scholarships, I put myself again at your disposal to continue advancing for the young man of the country and with them. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.27.0	Then there's the word "university counselor," Ms. Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.28.0	Good morning, MPs and MPs, president, councillor, councillors... So yes, I thank Congresswoman Toronjo for this inquiry respecting scholarship policy. I think it's important to talk to him. And yes, the commitment of the department and this consultant of the Department of Research and Universities is to be able to forge this country alliance because the knowledge society is at the center. You were talking about the youth, the equity, the equal opportunities, the development of his life and professional life project, and you made me think... Yesterday I saw a message from a researcher, the Arola, who brought more than two years to the foreigner, Pittsburgh and London, making research, and who was able to return to the coordinating country research projects in the field of cancer. And so, when we talk about the young man, that we have to keep him and that we have to give him opportunities... yesterday, too, I had this good predisposition, and, in fact, we stayed by September so we could talk a little bit, didn't we? From whom are the causes, from how he has returned. And it's one more case that motivates us and asks us, so, because the young man is at the center of our policies. Because I've said it since the first day: I don't want Catalonia moving forward at two speeds. Catalonia is different, but we need Catalonia to move on to a fast one. And in this sense, therefore, we need a stronger scholarship policy. You made reference, according to Junts and Esquerra, and made reference to this will to strengthen university scholarship policy. In this sense, we started with a first drop in the prices of the masters at the price of the degrees, in a forty_per_cent, and we also committed ourselves to the commission – and we are working, and it connects with what you have proposed – to the need to eliminate the difference in the prices of the degrees. You know that the degrees, depending on your experimentation, have a different type of price, and we think that if we also want this digital country, this technological country, we need to boost the industry; so it would also be well to be able to eliminate this price difference, and therefore you are not limited to choosing a grade depending on what your price was. On the other hand, we are also working and want to work decisively to increase equity in access to scholarships, university studies, vulnerable or disadvantaged families. And we're referring, when we talk about university politics, to 280,000 students, huh? And, therefore, there are 280,000 people who are part of the university system, and we must aim to impact positively to increase the quality of the university system and also to ensure this equity. In fact, we want to commit ourselves to increasing aid and economic resources – university aid. We want to implement the system of wage scholarships for students above all of the most disadvantaged backgrounds, and, more importantly, with the impact of the quota, I think it's still more important. And we also want to install an evaluation system of what is the impact of scholarships and aids to be able to make ex post corrections to the evaluation of the political action done, to increase its efficiency and its effectiveness. And also, above all – that connects to what they were told to eliminate the difference in the prices of the degrees – that anyone can study based on their ability and vocation and not on whom is the university price..., which they want to access. On the other hand, with regard to scholarship policy, I believe that we need to make a series of considerations, some of them of a political nature, some of them of a technical nature, which do limit, like the country, the policy of scholarships that can be made to our students. The first – and you have made reference – is that at this time..., I think it's an important moment to highlight the government's follow-up failure, which is what it is, from the subject of scholarships, and now I'm going to go in. But before that, what is the situation we have in Catalonia? In Catalonia we have the AGAUR. AGAUR is the Agency for the Management of University and Research Aids, which currently manages economic accreditations and fair scholarships, grants to university students of registered centres, grants to international mobility of students of Catalan universities, grants to university students of Upper Pirinius, Solsones and Aran, and scholarships and scholarships for the study of languages. But, in addition, the AGAUR, the agency of the Government of Catalonia, also manages the scholarships financed by the Ministry of Education, as they are – and they are very important, and you know it – the scholarships of general character for students studying university courses, scholarships for UOC students and fellowships in the different university departments. And what's going on here? So that the Generality, as well as maintaining its competence..., the Spanish State and the Government – whatever – have not crossed it. And that, with impact? Well, it impacts economically in a very flagrant way, and I think today and in terms of the actual days it's good to report it. First, whose economic dimension are we talking about, about the name of scholarships and aids? So look here: according to the AGAUR data, the year 2020-21 the Generalitat de Catalunya has managed more than 119_million euros of scholarships and helps the ministry end up in the mark of an agreement. Why? So why, as there has been this glaring and continuing failure since 2005, there must be an agreement between AGAUR and the Ministry of Education, because this transfer of this competence has not taken place. All right. This agreement, which has been in force since 2005, is what the Generalitat has to bear the costs of running the university scholarships that I have told you: these, which are states, eh? And that we should have crosses. Do you know what the total cost of managing university scholarships has been incurred by the Generalitat since 2001? Divide_millions of euros. These 18_million euros of the cost that the Generalitat has assumed for the management of the scholarships are 8_million euros in the concept of the non-university scholarships and 10,700,000 euros in the concept of the university scholarships. Therefore, the Generalitat de Catalunya – and Catalunya –, under its assumption, is assuming 18_million euros of costs of managing scholarships, even if they are to be passed on to the Government of the Generalitat. That's absolutely unfair. And I think it's time to put it on hold, huh? So, there's this failure since 2001, and it's also fixed which amount is to be valued, huh? That's what I'm talking about. Therefore, what we demand from here is that the Spanish government – that we already see that it is the most progressive of the history of Spain, but we are still pending this transfer – therefore, I passed the management of the scholarships definitively, because it has different effects. And you said so, Congresswoman Toronjo. When the State passes the scholarships, we can create a unique window for all students, which will facilitate their management and development as students. But it's that, besides, we don't just have to report these 18-million scholarship management grants that the Government of Catalonia has taken over from its assumptions, but that, more than that, there is a comparative burden. Currently in Catalonia there is a disset_per_cent of its university community, but in change, we only get the de_per_cent of the scholarships that the Spanish State holds. This, if we quantify it, is 44_million more weight compared to the scholarships that were close to Catalan students. Therefore, it is a difficult quality, respect the number of scholarships, and quantity, because it impacts on the management of the Government of Catalonia. So, I think now is the time to put it there. They have the opportunity. And, in addition, I pledge that, in the event that this cost of managing the scholarships that the Generalitat of Catalonia has assumed for the sake of passing, we will reinvest these management expenses in scholarship policy for the students of the Catalan universities. This compromise is felicitous, because the speech from Parliament's Faristol, but I think there's enough for the Government of Catalonia to manage the scholarships and bear the costs. Finally, I would like to ask the Members of the House of Commons and the PSC, who have also done so in the nearness of the committee. You, in your government pact, refer to the assumption of this transfer of State competitions into the subject of scholarships. I think they have the opportunity now. And, besides, I've quantified these: these 18_million euros that the Generalitat is taking on, management expenses, and we're going to reinvest, huh? , in the future projects of the young man of this country. Therefore, I hope that this competence, which is from 2001 – it is an authentic shame – will soon be passed on to the Generality. Because I'm an independentist for a lot of reasons, but one of them is because Catalonia doesn't have the recognition and respect it deserves. We carry from 2001 with a ruling of the Constitutional Court that..., govern re govern pass and this competition is not passed. And we see how the Constitutional Court judges for disobedience any resolution and sends you to prison or exile; but, in change, the government, whatever it is, carries from 2001 incomplicating judgments and here absolutely nothing goes wrong. We see how the Court of Auditors is seized and protected in order to ruin the life of the politicians who, in the end, are developing their pocket on the basis of a government program, and, in change, the Court of Auditors what it does is to take over the corrupt monarchy. This is the State I don't want to be a part of. And I'll work because I'm much more excited to be able to work for a state that you recognize and respect for its citizens than for a state that, since 2001, it's necessary for university students and less for this scholarship system, which could be much better for each person. Because, in the end, what this council is asking for is the transfer of scholarships that will affect all students, regardless of what they vote and what they think. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.29.0	Then again, and again, Mrs Toronjo has the words of Congresswoman Judith Toronjo. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Won't you use it? [[Pause.]] All right, thank you. [[Interview with the Government on initiatives to regulate the audiovisual sector]] [[300-00032/13]] Let us therefore turn to the next item on the agenda, the twenty-first, the question to the Government on initiatives to regulate the audiovisual sector. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, and has the word of Congresswoman Raquel Sans, to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.30.0	Thank you. Good morning, President. Advisers, Members, Members, today we want to talk about communication means, the change in consumption habits in the audiovisual world and the new regulations that need or need to be created from the directive that the European Union approved in 2018 and that gave two years to the Member States for the duration of the transposition. A term that ended in September of the year 2020 without the Spanish State having approved this regulation, a fact that, by the way, caused it an overturn by the European Commission, and only the Spanish State and Poland have this work under way. The government of the state, in fact, has the work in the middle. And on the 29th of June, the next time, he put to public display a preliminary draft of the law to which the Government has submitted annexes with the aim of improving the text above all for which he makes the defense of the audiovisual sector of Catalonia – then I will refer to it. In the first place, what would be hot is to highlight the importance of this European directive, which has two great objectives. The first is to balance audio-visual regulation between traditional media – radio and television – and we serve audio-visual services, such as petition services – such as Netflix, HBO, Disney+ – or video interswitching platforms – such as YouTube and TikTok, to cite two examples. Although these servos and plataforms each time earn more followers and have more audiovisual consumption, they do not compete in the same conditions with traditional media, which they were under regulation. Therefore, this is one of the objectives. The second objective, but not least important, is to guarantee freedom of expression and cultural and linguistic diversity, in accordance with the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions. Let's just hang on to this point. Digital plataforms have transformed audiovisual consumption habits. Despite the fact that traditional television is still the most widely viewed medium, it was a little bit lost to these over-the-top or video interspersing platforms, as YouTube can be. Don't stop growing up; they haven't stopped growing up in the last few years. And the import of the audiovisual industry will still be greater with the progressive implementation of 5G in the next two years, with the narrative possibilities offered, such as virtual reality, augmented reality..., all this will go on growing. According to a recent study by the Catalan Audiovisual Council, a sixty-three per cent of Catalans consume plataform content, and the xifra increases up to the noranta_per_cent in the dividing band at twenty-four years. I would ask Members and Members of Parliament and the people who are following us from home who think about how their own audiovisual consumption habits have changed. Every time you talk is more common, isn't it? , asking for serials, serial recommendations. This whole landscape is changing. The consumer has ceased to be a passive consumer to become an active consumer: he knows what he wants, when he wants it... It is what in academic terms has been called ‘prosumer' or ‘proactive consumer'. In this context, what have the states of the European Union done? So they have tried to make a policy of positive discrimination to protect the own production of each state in the language of each state. So, for example, what has France done? So ask that these plataforms be allocated between a 20 and a 20-i-five percent of their tickets to local production. Austria places this percentage in the 20th percentile, and Italy does it between the 12th and the Mig and the 20th percentile. What does the Spanish Government's text propose? So that this percentage, the investment in local production – therefore, in promotion of the audiovisual sector – is located in the five_per_cent, a xifra, as you see, very much below the rest of the states. Perhaps what would be good is to ask yourself why this percentage is so low in Spain, if what they claim is to promote audiovisual production. But this is not the only threat of the Spanish Government's text, because the bill's preliminary draft is also at odds with one of the objectives of the European directive, which is the defence of multilingualism and cultural diversity. And while we don't have a good state, which makes sense is the best way to guarantee the rights of Catalan language and culture, so that like at least the state standard mark is the maximum respect with this diversity. What exactly does the preliminary draft of the law say about the linguistic offer, about the titles that these plataforms must have available? So fix that thirty per cent of the offer are European productions; as at least half of these works must be in castle or in one of the official languages of the autonomous communities. And this conjunction, or it's all troubling, because if the cent_percent of the production that was broadcast in the castle, the plataforms would already be complete with the regulations. What we don't understand is that... if there is a quota for European production, if there is a quota for the castle, there should also be one for the Catalan or for the official languages of the State; that, moreover, they still compete in a situation that is more minority and more disadvantaged than not the castle, right? This, if what is meant is to guarantee cultural and linguistic diversity, which, on the other hand, is a constitutional mandate; surely from that part of the Constitution that some are not looking, that those who define themselves as constitutionalists are not looking, but it is a constitutional mandate. Because, if there is no such discrimination, the market for itself will not guarantee the presence of català in these plataforms, and the regulation serves precisely for this, to correct the possible malfunctions of the market. Therefore, the allegations that the Government has submitted, we understand, counsel, that they are in the line of defending a drafting of the rule that effectively defends the presence of català in these plataforms. And some data to hear the minority and import of this regulation, right? , the minority that the català suffers in these plataforms. A ACC report tells us that only zero and a half percent – attention to the figures, huh? – Netflix contents are in Catalan language. HBO has only 0.1_per_cent of its catalá; Disney+, 0.8_per_cent, and Amazon Prime Video, 1.3_per_cent. Filming offers it the 18.9_per_cent of the cataleg – it's the most – and, in fact, it's the only platform that has all the interface in catalá. From the outset, I believe that in order to correct this difficulty we should demand that it be ensured that all those works which already have a language version in Catalan, which are not a few, are available in these catalogues. And, finally, I can't be saying that the bill's pre-project has a clear, recent willingness, huh? , more than not defending plurilingualism. In the case of regulation, the majority of competitions are attributed to the National Commission on Markets and Competition or to the appropriate ministry. And not having skills or not participating in decisions affecting these services, and the contents they speak may also limit the scope of audiovisual regulators such as the Catalonian Audiovisual Council – in short, the Generality – in such sensitive issues and in which the ACC already carries many years of work such as the protection of minors, hate speech, covert advertising or misinformation. There are truly federal countries, such as Germany or Belgium, in which this does not happen, and what is established is a system of collaboration between authorities, one does not impose on one another. For another band, and surprisingly, he also called for us to be aware that this pre-project incorporates a modification of the Spanish Radiotelevision Law, for which the plataforms of service to petition and video interspersing must make an annual contribution of the u and mig percent of its admissions to Spanish Radiotelevision, an innovative measure, but which, in any case, discriminates against the public media of the autonomous communities, such as those of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, and more so if we take into account that a better financing would eventually impact on more resources also for audiovisual production and, ultimately, for the Catalan industry. In short, we have a great deal of political will to ensure that this law does not go against Catalan language and culture. And, in this sense, we would ask all parties, especially those that support the Government of the State, to be aware of everything that we play from the linguistic and cultural point of view, and that, among all of us, we continue to renew and update the great consensus of the country and to shield the future and the presence of català to digital platforms. And I will end up with a quote from who was a communication advisor for Culture and Media and one of our country's leading communication experts, Joan Manuel Tresserras, who said: "Languages and cultures that do not have the capacity to express themselves in the languages, formats and technologies characteristic of the time will probably be abandoned and neglected for the new generations. We play a lot, counselor, and we know that this government is working hard, with a long look and a perspective for the future. From the Republican Left Group we would like to give details of the meaning of the allegations which, like the government, have presented themselves to this Spanish audiovisual law, and also what steps they have planned from now on. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.31.0	Next, the President's Counsellor has the word, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.32.0	Thank you, President. My honourable Member, she has placed it very well, she has explained very well what the situation is. And if we find ourselves here today, in this Chamber, talking about the regulation of the audiovisual sector, it is because, once again, the Spanish State is late in its dues to adapt, to transpose European legislation. And it wasn't just late, but it's doing it badly – if not, against Catalonia's interests. In fact, this European Parliament's 2018 directive on audiovisual communications services required its transposition into internal law before 18 September 2020, and that did not happen. And it's not a minor issue, because at this point one of the objectives of the Council of Europe is precisely that these transpositions are done in time and form..., as it plays. And, therefore, the European Commission, through the Court of Justice of the European Union, can impose economic sanctions, as, in fact, it has done in this case, because it has opened an infringement procedure against various Member States, including the Spanish State, for not having adequate legislation. In fact, the lack of this transposition already implies that it is not only a failure to comply with the rules, but also a difficult legal uncertainty with regard to who should be the provisions in force and applicable in the audiovisual field. And it is that, despite the obvious existence of the principle of direct effect of a directive, it is also a question that has generated legal uncertainty, because it does not make the rule concrete in the audiovisual sector, and therefore causes problems. We'd say it could be a leaven, but it's not the only problem. The hardest problem is that this late transposition is being done in an inappropriate way. And, therefore, we are determined to intervene, to defend our competitions, to defend a good audiovisual law – above all to protect Catalan language and culture. And where do we find each other? So it was late, because, as we say, since the generality had advanced, in fact, a lot of work in the field of audiovisual regulation, but it has also done badly, because they need to have their own skills, the language and funding of Catalan audiovisual. Therefore, obviously, the government – cannot be otherwise – will defend our own model in relation to the Catalan audiovisual. And we have made allegations – as you said, honourable Member – before the State Administration, in our hearing and public information proceedings on the preliminary draft general audiovisual communication law. The first installment, which was made during the month of December of last year, had a truly disappointing result. That's why we resubmitted allegations to the government this July, just a few days ago. And we've had to do this on two occasions, because we found that the bulk of the most important attachments presented with the first process were not accepted, but they weren't even valued in the standard impact memory. And, therefore, we have to reiterate them. We also haven't added any new changes to the text, and we'll do it as many times as we can. And we will take advantage of all the trading spaces with the State that we have not only to make attachments, but also to negotiate in all areas; therefore, also in the General-State Bilateral Commission. We will take advantage of all the spaces we have, and we hope that all the formations will do so, because we all have the interest to keep the català alive, and so that in this sense it is placed next to the government and activates all the mechanisms of defence of the language and the other co-official languages – the orange and the rest of the co-official languages of the State – since this is the only way to establish a defence and a protection of the language, because at these times it only protects the castle, and this is the current reality. I will talk about three questions: as I said, the defence of català, but also the competitive invasion that means this regulation, and, finally, financing. As I said recently, we play it all, in the case of català, in our own years. And it's that this law, this general audiovisual communication law, can mark a long way and a way back for the català. If the adaptation of the directive does not include the use of català, the language will remain in a situation of absolute weakness in audiovisual production, and this can be absolutely lethal. We demand, therefore, that the Spanish Government not work against the defense of the language or Catalan culture, and therefore also defend the represes of the current audiovisual production and distribution in Catalonia. And, concretely, in this adaptation of this legislation, which encloses linguistic quotas – and let's make it clear – and which rules the use of language in audiovisual placards – that is so key. At these times there is no concrete forecast, as I say, of what is the percentage of European reserve of work on linear television. The reserve of work would be the way to protect the different co-official languages of the castle. In this sense, let us allege that there is at least fifty per cent of this percentage which is used in the different official languages of the castle. Therefore, also the plataforms, also the catalegs of the service providers, must contemplate this consideration. In this sense, let's allege – we have to say at the moment – that there is a thirty-per-cent reservation for languages like Catalan, within this fifty-per-cent reservation of European work. Thus, the directive incorporates obligations for the promotion of European audiovisual productions, and in particular the possibility of establishing measures to contribute to the financing of these works. It is therefore proposed that communication service providers should contribute to this funding. For another band, and in relation to competing invasion issues, this pre-project concerns us, and we are very concerned. Because, one more time, the centralizing will of the Spanish State causes us to collide with competitions that are exclusive to the Generality. And it's that every time Madrid regulates basics, we have to be very alert and alert in order not to lose a line at every bug. In the first place, it is related to the governance of the providers of public audiovisual communication services of the autonomous communities – in our case, the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Media. This law regulates the minimum content of what should be the mark, in fact, approved for this Parliament or the program contract to be approved by the Government, and even regulates and is an analysis of what is considered to be public value. Therefore, it is clearly a competitive invasion, because it encounters the exclusive competences of the Generality on the organization of the performance of this public service. Secondly, it relates to video interswitching platforms, which regulates them as if they were a different area of audiovisual communication, regulating them to the emperor of the exclusive competence of the State in the field of telecommunications, and therefore assigns competences of its control to the National Commission on Markets and Competition. In this sense, the autonomous communities... in the Catalan case we already have the Catalan Audiovisual Council, which is the one that has the prerogatives, the powers to control these video interspersing plataforms. I, finally, you're afraid of financing. The current text provides funding for Spanish Radio and Television. Obviously, we also demand funding for our audiovisual media corporation. The first final provision modifies the Spanish radio and television law and specifies that the plataforms must specifically contribute to the financing of the Spanish Radio and Television with a 1.5_percent of the gross revenues of the exploitation invoiced in the correspondent year– therefore, it is not a small thing. We have asked, therefore, for another final provision to be made indicating that public service providers of audiovisual communication services from different territories would also be financed – in our case, the media corporation, but also other audiovisual products in català. I'm going to conclosure. It is obvious that the presence of català in plataformas is practically null, as it has explained very well in the case of each of the plataformas and enterprises that are there. According to the data collected for the ACC reports and the various recounts we've made, that's really it. Therefore, together with the Councillor of Culture – Councillor Nattalia Garriga – together with the secretary of Mitjans de Comunicació – Mr Oriol Duran – we will plant face to face to defend the Catalan audiovisual production and to defend the Catalan language. Also the rights of Catalan speakers of being able to find contained in català to plataformas and to the networks, because it cannot be in any way that the vast majority of Catalans and Catalans tend to see contained folded or subtitled in català to plataformas and not to find them. Obviously, that's impossible to accept. Like I said, in our own years, we play it all, in the català. Therefore, for us this is a red line that cannot be crossed. And we won't miss a chance to fight for the defense of language. And, therefore, we place all political groups of this chamber to do this, too, and to go in the same line, because it is a country agreement much more beyond the Government of the Generality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.33.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the basis for coexistence and for a Catalonia of all]] [[302-00017/13]] Let's move on to the motions, to the twenty-two on the order of the day, which is the motion following the question to the Government on the basis of coexistence and for a Catalonia of all. The Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans presented it, and to expose it has the word of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, for a space of five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.34.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we present to you the final version for the vote of the motion that we are presenting on the basis of coexistence and for a Catalonia of all from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. It consists of eight points, eight points that we have wanted to make, eight very essential bases, very basic, so that democracy is respected in Catalonia, so that all Catalans can say that we respect each other, so that democracy is not only held – the vision of democracy – on the part of Catalonia, but to pretend that all Catalans agree on a very minimal basis of coexistence. And, listen, it has already circulated throughout all the groups..., some of you have passed us amendments, which we have accepted, for the most part, and I believe that there is a text that should be able to be voted on affirmatively by all. What happens is that I am very afraid that, from the extreme part of the Chamber, the part that holds the money, the part that holds the power, the part that wants to crush the other part of Catalonia, as if it didn't exist or as if it didn't count, they won't even appreciate how basic these rules of coexistence are. Look, when you put to the vote respect for democratic order, the separation of powers and institutional loyalty, and hope that it will be voted that not on the part of a part of the Chamber in a legislative body, is that we have a serious problem. When one says that electoral legislation is promoted so that there are no scandalous inequalities between the value of one person's vote and that of another depending on where he lives, and hopes that a good part of the Chamber will vote that not to prolong the doping with which he obtains a majority of seats in this Parliament, it is that we have a serious problem. When the vote that respects the feelings of belonging of all Catalans hopes to be received in a negative way by one part of the Chamber, which does not respect the feeling of the other part of Catalans, because it wants to change the identity document, and, in addition, it tolerates the constant manifestations of Hispanicophobia that occur in Catalonia, it is that we have a serious problem. And of course, when a group like Citizen's takes it and puts it to the vote, and it seems like such an extraordinary thing, we have a problem. And we have the problem that, above all, it is a debate that is uncomfortable. It is a debate that is uncomfortable, because when one part of the House is saying to the other: « Give me air. Vote for coexistence. Don't abuse your political supremacy in seats. Don't abuse the majority that artificially gives you the law. Do not continue to crush the other part of Catalonia with your pretensions as if they were the only legitimate and valid ones, and hope to find an irremovable block of negative, we have a problem. Because when a political party carries it, let's say, it's a rare opinion, which is a rare thing to talk about in Parliament, even though there are a lot of constitutionalist associations that I want to thank for having contributed to the drafting of these eight points, and you are going to make deaf ears, because it is something really uncomfortable. That discomfort has caused it to have to be Citizens who put these points to the vote, because there are other parties, such as the Socialist Party, that I know they are going to point out and they are going to vote favorably on most of these points – we have even accepted three of them, as I will then comment on, in the turn of amendments – but it seems that they will then go to ask for forgiveness. Listen, I call on the Socialists, if they vote for this, then from the Spanish Government, to assume it and have it as something that must be accepted for respect for coexistence and democracy. That is what leads us to ask, first, that all the constitutionalist forces support these points, and, second, that you think how politics is in Catalonia when it is to be hoped that the nationalist forces will vote negatively at such basic points of democracy and coexistence. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.35.0	Then there is the word, to defend the proposed statements, the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Sergio Macián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.36.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Members of Parliament. This motion on the basis of coexistence and for a Catalonia of all Catalans from the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia understood that it was absolutely necessary in its original wording. Separatism has been trying for forty years to build a project of nation and self-state through the manipulation of feelings, history and collective thought. And separatism continues to work for the construction of that collective fiction, but it has failed in its attempt to build a single nation – a populous sun – which is the greatest fallacy of its collective imagination. His original motion was a little in this line, to combat this fallacy. It was a courageous motion, but it has now been absolutely decaffeinated when the PSC came into play. You have caked with the PSC, which has completely disfigured your motion. Twenty-seven euphemisms have been eaten to, in the end, say nothing. See, for example, in paragraph 4, which spoke of respecting the feelings of Spanishness of the majority of Catalan society, it is now said "respecting the feelings of belonging of all the citizens of Catalonia". But here we have attacked the belonging to Spain of all Catalans with a coup d'état, in 2017, which intended to separate us from Spain by force. Or the fifth point, which said that the institutional contempt of the Spanish as an official language, of education, mother, family and social, should be abandoned, and now says « respect all official languages to Catalonia and guarantee its use, which is an affirmation of Perogrullo. Of course we must respect all the languages in Catalonia, but here we suffer asphyxiating monolingualism in Catalan, promoted by the Generalitat, and a linguistic immersion that attacks the linguistic freedom of all Catalans. And this Citizen knows it and knows it, but it has closed a text that, in the end, says nothing. We liked point 4 of the motion in its original wording, when it said "respect the feelings of Spanishness of the majority of Catalan society, condemn the pedagogy of hatred to Spain and foster fraternity with our fellow citizens from the rest of Spain". And of course we do, because we often forget that there are many things that unite us with all the Spaniards and that put us at the forefront of Europe and the world. We must regain the pride of feeling our Catalans and Spanish, for many reasons; today I feel eager to give them some of them. Look, Spain was the first great empire where the sun didn't set. It was the Spaniards who made the first round of the world. Spain and Europe are not Muslims today, Arab caliphates, thanks largely to the reconquest and the battles of Las Navas de Tolosa and Lepanto. The real of eight Spanish was the first recognized currency in the world, worldwide, in trade. That we were the third country in the Western world to draw up a constitution. He had the first parliament in medieval Europe. That women voted here long before in France or Italy. A story without a pair, a language spoken by almost 500_million people, an enviable and inexhaustible culture, an artistic heritage and extraordinary traditions, a top-level tourist destination, one of the most efficient health systems in the world. We are a country with an exemplary parliamentary monarchy, which is among the countries with the highest democratic quality and greater social progress. We have the highest levels of citizen security, a police force of the best in the world. We are, together with Japan, the country with the highest life expectancy. And Spain is, according to a study by the audit company Deloitte, the best country to be born for its high level of well-being and health. And, according to the woman, peace and security index, is considered the fifth country in the world, 153, to be born a woman. We must therefore be very proud to feel our Catalans and to belong to this great nation which is Spain. [[some applause]] and discard at once the inferiority complexes and all the Spanish-speaking propaganda of the separatists. That's why we liked the original wording of Citizens. In that regard, we will vote on points 1, 7 and 8, all of which we share with the whole of the House, but we will vote against points 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6. On the third point, I wanted to make a mention. We agree that political stability and legal certainty must be created to restore economic confidence, but Catalonia is not a trusted partner for the whole of Spain and the European Union; Catalonia is an inseparable part of Spain, a common homeland of all Spaniards, and is not a trusted partner. On the other hand, with regard to point 6, we have tabled here an amendment of deletion and addition which has not been accepted. We do not want to turn TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio into public and plural media, but directly what we want is to close the ‘body, which costs us 240_million_of_euros per year. It is a mastodontic machine at the service of separatism, hatred, indoctrination and marking. And to great evils, great remedies; what has to be closed is TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio, and to allocate these resources to the real needs of Catalans: to social housing, to health, to security, to education and to aid to the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.37.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, she now has the word, in order to defend the papers presented, Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor, deputies and deputies. Well, they feel a few things, from this faristol, that make them talk a little bit. We've made some papers to this citizen's office, which we didn't just like when the original text was written, and that's why we made some papers, and I want to thank Mr. Carrizosa for accepting them. I think this is the attitude, if we want to build bridges. Now, if we want to stay on the fronts, if we want to follow each other, without recognizing the other, without respecting the other, then very well: put 'you in the situation where VOX is. If really what we want is to weave bridges, try to hear 'us, respect us, understand the other, empathize to build a Catalonia of all in a Spain of all, so what it takes is to weave bridges. Our reviews were directed at this. And I really appreciate Mr. Carrizosa's acceptance of these papers. I think everyone can feel more comfortable in this writing and with these things that we've done. I don't know what the groups that support the government and the independence groups will do, but I think some of the texts are clearly voteable by any of the groups that are in this chamber. What did we want to do with some papers? Well, first of all, a thought about the election law, which was fine, the text I was proposing, but we've sophisticated it a little, if you want to say so. This is a challenge that we have all parliamentary groups: reform, own electoral law. We are the only autonomous community that does not have its own electoral law. It turns out that when we talk about self-government and so many things... we don't often get to exercise this self-government and our skills. This is one: we have not been able to make a proper electoral law; so much good we walk here. We've made a note of respect for feelings, too. Feelings are very personal. No one can try to incorporate, force no one to feel in a certain way. Every guy feels like he wants to, he'll just miss it. Feelings are personal. Now, we have to respect them all: the one who feels Catalan only, the one who feels Spanish only, the one who feels Catalan and Spanish, more or less one thing or another. The feeling of belonging is a feeling that we want to respect wherever anyone in Catalonia is. And, therefore, here we want not to eliminate Spanisholitis, but to respect them all. I think that's a lot better, because, if not, we're still on a front, and the intervention that the VOX deputy made puts him clearly on a front. It doesn't seem to us that this is the solution, that we seem to be part of the solution to the problem we are living in Catalonia. And I believe that some have clearly entered the political scene not to be the solution, to remain part of the problem, because they grow up, with the problem. But I honestly say to them: "Citizens vote for us because we solve problems. And, therefore, this is the will of the Socialist Party, which neither decaffeinates anything nor tries to bring down anything; what it tries to do is that in this young man, with our humble contributions, everyone can feel 'hime represented. When we talk about the languages... you, of course, only spoke in the castle; you could also speak in Catalan. You could also speak in Catalan, because you are obviating a part of Catalonia that speaks in català, that feels in català, that thinks in català. That is to say, the President of Parliament, who always speaks in Catalan, is an expert in Quixote. I think the Quixote wrote in the castle. I mean, we all have contrasting feelings here. Yes, we speak the castle and the català, and we esteem them; we want the Catalan and the Castilian in the same way. But when we're just trying to talk to one part of Catalonia, which is what you were doing in the castle, obviously there's another part of Catalonia. And I also criticize the independenceists when they do, and 15 days ago I had a discussion with Congressman Maragall. I mean I don't put myself under the table; I say what I believe, or say what we believe, my parliamentary group, on this subject, but I think we're not doing well on the fronts and not trying to hear the other and seeing what's going on in Catalonia. And it is clear that we need to neutralise our institutions. The President of the Generality, Mr Aragonès, said he wanted to be the President of all. And the president of everyone in Catalonia wants to say neutrality, that is not to use institutions in a partisan way, and we hope that you will do so. We were pleased, for example, to have this table of matches, which was also a way, among all, of being able to talk about what unites us. We didn't make it. And then, on the last point of respect for the legal order, which is a discrepancy that I wanted to comment on, Mr. Carrizosa, with all the affect I have on it: to respect the legal order is also to respect the pardons, because the pardons are a form..., you know, they are in the legal order, they are a figure contemplated in our Constitution. And, therefore, what you are doing, VOX and the PP does not help in this respect that we then ask others what they do for what they do to legal standards in our state of law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.39.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, MPs, MPs, and all the citizenry you've been following us through the Parliament channel. Allow me to begin by showing my condolences and the maximum resilience to this feminicide that occurred today in Sabadell, and that they are one of the worst problems we have of coexistence, these feminicides, of which you do not speak in absolute terms. Why do you introduce us here to a young man..., come again with a young man under the title – who we could believe, right? – that you say, "bases for living together in a Catalonia of all..., and you do not think of the problems that are really of living together fracture, as could be the masculinism that kills, as could be so many others that affect the lives of the majority of people. Because what you do, as always, is, under a title that we could believe, truly cherish your authentic will, that is to say that you talk about living together when you are talking about the political conflict between Catalonia and the State. It's a young woman who's full of omissions. You don't talk at the moment... for example, don't refer to thousands of people who are painting the poor, and we have forty-five percent of people who don't arrive at the end of the month. They do not speak at any time of habitation, and we have an authentic fracture of coexistence in this open conflict between the owners, between the elites who speculate with the habitation, and the thousands of people – fifteen daily denunciations – who suffer not having to live long, with the drama that this entails. You then tell us that you want to make an electoral law – an electoral law – and at the moment you're talking about everyone's right to vote. Because you say that it's for Catalonia "of all people, they make use of this" all that is not included, as if they want to refer to everyone, and when they talk about the electoral law, they don't mention people who don't have rights, they don't just talk about their registration, they don't even talk about their voting rights, nor about the foreigners – we remember that only the six-per-cent Catalans to the foreigners were able to vote. Your omissions and falsehoods. They're talking about the separation of powers. Quin cynicism! – quin cynicism! Have they not read the report of the Council of Europe? The separation of powers can be respected when it exists. I see that even the whole world, which is not suspected of being conniving with independence, 2016– yes, before the 17th – says that Spain – this was October 16– had rejected a very harsh reprimand of the Council of Europe through the groups of states against corruption for not having implemented any of the measures recommended by 2014 to strengthen the independence of the judiciary. And that was..., it was summative – it was summative. You... it's really only five minutes, because, if it wasn't so painful, we wouldn't stop pointing at this text full of contradictions and cynicism. But above all, they will be able to do so when they tell us that "we respect the sense of belonging, you who are continually promoting catalanophobia, who have wanted to turn independence into a crime and who have encouraged us to decorate the "for them" – extreme police violence – against more than 2 million Catalans and Catalans to peacefully exercise their right to vote. Mirin, stop abusing the supremacy of the 78th Regime, accept Catalan sovereignty, respect the totality of the people, let it be the people who determine themselves. And when we make the process the republic of Catalonia free, then we can respect the constitution itself. From the 78th Regime, I don't count with us. Obviously, we will vote against it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.41.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomera, has the word Lord Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.42.0	Thank you very much, President. I'd like to start with a reflection by reading the motion. Living together..., surely it is difficult to legislate on living together, but living together is a political project or is to be translated into a political project, it is neither judicial nor administered procedure, nor is it a group dynamic, as it is sometimes planted in space or business, of..., "fem..., we organize some days of living together. It's a political project, and it has to be built on a political project. And I am surprised, because you are precisely the political party that, together with other forces of this Parliament, have positioned themselves against elements that for us are instrumental in building a project of political coexistence, such as the table of the dialog or, more recently, the decision to indulge the political leaders who were in prison and to find legal solutions to the judicialization of the conflict. And I think it's a little paradoxical that you are against a table of dialogue that allows us to overcome a political crisis in this country, to negotiate it and to debate it and to agree on political solutions, and that at the same time in this Parliament you present motions for coexistence, you understand coexistence not as parliamentary respect that we have to hold each other or as a matter of public order, but as coexistence in political terms, of building a political project where there may have been recognition of the national reality of Catalonia, where there may have been recognition of the political and linguistic plurality of that country. And for this reason, institutions and procedures for mutual recognition and dialogue are called for. And, therefore, we do not understand his position. They say something that seems even more paradoxical to me. The last point of the motion says something like this: "We must respect the Government of Spain when it comes to visiting Catalonia; but if... It is to say, you only ask for respect for the Government of Spain to the independence forces, because when they come out of here and there is a dialog, the traitor titular, the titular of having come to separatism, of socialcommunist, and they will not go to manifest themselves with the extreme right against the Government of Spain. And I think it's a little paradoxical, her approach to the young lady. And I'm saying it, basically, because social cohabitation, I think, has to be analyzed in a more plural way. I say, there are points of his motion that we obviously share: that an electoral law is necessary; well, that communication means are plural and diverse; that linguistic plurality is respected in Catalonia and that no one lacks respect for being Spanish speaking. Obviously, we all agree. But we think it's not here, or it's not just here where the problems of living together in our country are bad. Problems of coexistence in our country, and after these weeks I believe that it is every time more obvious that you are manifesting, sharing political space and sharing a political alliance with a party that has Hungary as its reference to the time to preserve or attack sexual freedom, orientation and identity, in our country. This is indeed a problem of real coexistence in our country. A problem of coexistence is that you share a strategic alliance with a political organization that, now that another woman has died in Sabadell, denies male violence in our country, or attacks miserably minors not accompanied by being strangers. This is a direct threat to our coexistence as a society, and it is a direct threat to minorities on the part of a political party that makes the flag of which are central elements of the reactionary thinking of faixism in our country. And, therefore, I think we need to think of coexistence more than parliamentary terms, of respect, of institutional neutrality, of plurality, and we need to start thinking in terms of democratic response against the threat that you assume to share strategic space with a far-right party. And today that they have recently celebrated their convention and that they have, let's say, claimed as the liberal force in this country, and with all my respect, I believe that there is a central point in their reflection on coexistence, or two more points, that must be central in any liberal space. What is his proposal to overcome the two years of political conflict that we have experienced in this country, and, therefore, to integrate [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and with this I'm done – also independence from a shared country project. And second, what to do with political relations with the extreme right. I believe that on these two elements it would be helpful to build a proposal for a broader, more ambitious coexistence than the one presented to us today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.43.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and for the Group Mixt, has the words of Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.44.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, to point out very quickly that we will vote in favour of the motion in its entirety; it is very much like a document that we also sent to the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya in the round of visits that were carried out. And it is also true that we liked, or liked more, the original motion. We believe, of course, that with the amendments it is somewhat decafeinated with that very rolling language PSC, so that we understand each other, but I think we all need to be clear that we are voting on texts, not intentions, and it has given me the feeling that everyone here has devoted themselves to evaluating more intentions than the text we were finally voting on, and that when trying to discredit the text – which is true, I insist, I liked the previous one more – instead of objectively evaluating the text as it remains, everyone is trying to attribute some intentions to it, and that therefore prevents us from being able to reach a broader agreement. We, in any case, will. I do want to make reference... because, in short, these equidistances that arise in the interventions of the socialist bench. First, whether the pardons are legal or not, we will not decide it any of us here, it will be justice that determines it. In any case, what I can move forward is that we will abide by what justice says, whether we like it or not. That's the essential difference between a Democrat and who isn't. And those who do not abide by the decisions of justice are those who turn away from democracy. And, consequently, Mrs Romero, that you establish on these issues equidistances, that is indeed outrageous, and not any of the speeches that have been heard here today, which, by the way, I believe, in the end, explain, therefore, the achievements that Spanish society as a whole and that the Spanish cultural heritage has contributed to humanity, because I do not think it is to scandalize itself, frankly. I believe, in any case, that they are absolutely objective data. But, I repeat, establish equidistances where there can be no..., we out there, obviously, cannot accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.45.0	Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera. [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Now I see I've read the textbook and it's turned. Actually, actually, it would correspond that he was the deputy of Junts for Catalonia, Josep Rius. What if they want to change it? She's already here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.46.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.47.0	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.48.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia deputades i deputats. Jo, today, I'm also debuting... today, in this faristol. I, who tell me Ana, with a girl, who knocks on the barri de Singuerlin, to Santa Coloma de Gramenet – certainly, bressol de la immersión linguística –, who knocks on the daughter of Andalusian sea and of extreme father, I premiere here today, with this motion presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, on the bases for coexistence and for a Catalonia of all. Precisely this title: « cohabitation; you work daily, tirelessly, to break the cohabitation of Catalonia. Clearly, they're working to break it, to say that we have a problem with living together; that's cynicism. Of course, also a failed strategy, as shown by the electoral results of last February 14, that you have gone from being the most appointed parliamentary group in the last parliamentary term to having thirty-six Members and Members of this House, that is to say, to being residual to Catalan politics. But you continue with this tonic; how can you insist on doing that which has caused your parliamentary group to be caught in a van now? And, look, if they went from the bus to the van, it's because the city doesn't see them as a useful tool, because you don't have a project for Catalonia beyond the chasm and speech of hate. And, moreover, the only one who came to leave to Catalan politics are the eleven deputies of the extreme right, because the rise of fascism is the direct result of its connivance with authoritarianism. Those who do hate differently from the reason for their political action have taken advantage of the hatred you have made against independence. Because you have whitewashed the violence of the extreme right when it served to pursue independence. You, citizens who fill their mouths with constitutionalism, see in your speech that you have converted the Constitution of 78 into a straitjacket, a flap of rights and freedoms. And, more importantly, in their review, they managed to prevent the passage of the parliamentary debate, entering only into the mood for the scandal, accusing a government that wanted to make a democratic consultation to provoke coups d'état. You, who are the ones who leave this chamber to not condemn the franchise; yes, you. [[Greetings.]] And, in fact, look, the demoscopia is clear: in Catalonia we don't have a problem with living together in political fall, what we have is a political debate alive. And we also find great consensus that defines us as society, as is the rebuilding of the monarchy, that three of every four Catalans suspect it; the claim for a reference to the relationship with the Spanish State, approved for three of every four Catalans; the fi of repression, which has been rejected for three of every four Catalans, and the struggle for quality public services, who know what? , effectively, three_of_each_four Catalans give it the view. So, if there is a conflict of coexistence, it is because the State prevents, even violently, the articulation of these great country consensuses. And they also see, certainly, in his text, that since February 2016 the CEO places Oriol Junqueras as the most highly valued policy of Catalan politics, for a point per over..., since 2018, for the second, that lately, also to say, is President Pere Aragonès. In change, down, who do we find? What are the three policies with a lower score? Carlos Carrizosa, Ignacio Garriga and Nacho Martín Blanco, more or less the same in the van plus one. This is an anomaly, but it does tempt against coexistence: that the most highly valued politician in Catalonia, who can best represent the conjunction of the citizenry, has been in prison for almost four years and that today he is still unable to represent the citizenry. This tempts against coexistence. And to finish... [[Greetings.]] I'm done, President. I cease to attribute the metropolitan area as its territory, I cease to invoke the Baix Besòs, I cease to refer to Santa Coloma de Gramenet, as if it were his fire, because it is not – and I say, I know from there. And, look, I will open his eyes: the reality is that, on the 14th of February, the Republican Left of Catalonia was second strength to Santa Coloma de Gramenet and it was also second strength to Badalona and Sant Adrià de Besòs, and Ciutadans, on the other hand, to Santa Coloma was fifth strength. This is the reality: you are not the election, either to Santa Coloma or to the metropolitan area, there people do not vote for you either, perhaps because they do not think it is a useful tool, which they do think of the party that I have the honor to represent, which is Republican Left. And, lastly, a quote from Socrates: "When the debate is lost, slander is the tool of the loser. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.49.0	And, then, it does have the word Josep Rius, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya. [[Pause and voice of the background.]] We make it clear that the change is in the order of entry, and that's why this reversal occurred, that we thought it was a mistake, and it's not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.50.0	So thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, well, I think there have been some interventions that represent a lot of what I'm going to say now. With this young man what you claim is that we are talking about a fact that is invented: that Catalonia has a problem with living together. It is really very curious that since Madrid, too, it is not indicated that we have a problem of coexistence, when Spain has the most important reputational crisis since the death of the dictator, precisely favored by the political conflict that is lived between Catalonia and Spain. No one in the world sees any conflict of coexistence between Catalans, I know very hard. Look, do you know what the world sees? They see that the State's response to a political and democratic conflict is political prisoners, political prisoners, three thousand reprisals and exiles, and they also see European institutions and courts that are each time more uncomplicated. That's what the world sees, and by far the weights. This same day, the European Commission makes reference to the lack of renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary, judicial independence, separation of powers. And a few days ago the Council of Europe stood against the existence of political prisoners and exiles, and demanded of Spain the fictitiousness of repression; every week a new one. Independence is a movement of emancipation because all Catalans and Catalans can set up a new and modern country project; a country fully integrated into Europe, and not just to ask for economic aid, but we put our degree of suspense in this common project. It can only be in bad faith to say that independence creates a problem of living together in Catalonia, when the eighty-eight percent of Catalans want a reference to decide the political future of their country. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans – the Member of Esquerra said now – you are unaware of the reality of the country and the problems of its people. Thirty-six to six, thirty-minus. Some points of his motion: he respects the law and the separation of powers. I suppose they also refer to convictions coming from Europe to the lack of separation of powers in Spain, to arbitrary detention of political opponents, to unsecured judgment and, ultimately, to a separation of powers that allows the Turkish league to play. The clear electoral law that it is necessary to change it, but to put it in the 21st century, still allow the telematic vote, the right to vote to foreign Catalans, improving and speeding up the processes. You, in change, what you want is an ad hoc reform only to improve, if it is possible, its electoral results and that does not take into account the need for cohesion, territorial distribution heterogeneous that Catalonia has. If you'll excuse me, don't stick. In its point 3, it states the need to make Catalonia a trusted partner for the joint venture of Spain and the European Union. But are you not sure, that the crisis of trust and reputation is not patenting the Spanish State before Europe, precisely because of this political conflict between Catalonia and Spain? Point 5 refers to the institutional underprivilegedness of the castle. To the question he made at the end Ple made use of the expression "rehabilitate the castle in Catalonia". I looked it up in the dictionary. « Rehabilitating means returning to its first state, from which it was fallen. I suppose, I understand, that we demand that we waste all these years of democracy, linguistic normalization, an educated model of recognizable success, and that we re-place the castle as at times when you sure consider it glorious. They also talk about respect for the crown. The one who fled to Saudi Arabia with his deals? Or is it the one calling for them all to go only to their own and giving green light to repression against the Catalan national minority? In fact, if you consider that the king has the support of so many millions of Catalans, it's very easy: why don't we vote for his status? Do it. In short, there is already some progress that our group will be voting against the points of this motion, and I am telling them that they are brave and that we are addressing what is the essence of this conflict, that is, this conflict between Catalonia and Spain. And that's the right of all Catalans, all of them, to decide freely the future politics of their country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.51.0	Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.52.0	I only have two minutes. Very quickly. Thanks to the Socialist Party and also to VOX, although their amendment has not been accepted, for having raised the amendments. We have accepted the three proposed to us by the Socialist Party and have almost defended it, the..., let us say, this acceptance, the member of the People's Party, whom I thank for it, that he has done so, why he has given it to us: it is that, in fact, here we are voting a text – we are voting a text – not the ideological proposals that each of us has. And that is why it has been and has been pertinent to accept this new wording, to add..., not only to add to the Socialist Party, but also to show who is going to vote against, today, point 4, as it has remained: « Respect the feelings of belonging of all the citizens and citizens of Catalonia and condemn any attempt of confrontation between Catalans and Catalans, i between Catalans and Catalans and the rest of Spanishols. And who is going to vote against something so simple, enunciated in two lines, like..., "respect all the official languages in Catalonia and guarantee its use and knowledge, as our Catalan statutari mark? Do you think it's loose to the gentlemen of VOX? Well, make sure separatism is going to vote no – it's going to vote no. And it's the way to put them in evidence. This, in spite of the complexes... I have to tell you, Mrs Romero, that listening to you saying that speaking in Spanish means addressing yourself only to a part of the Catalans and it turns out that speaking in Catalan means, yes, addressing yourself to everyone, so it is a silly manicism that we are not going to accept. And with regard to respect for pardons, listen, legality is always respected. Political convenience or not is something else quite different. Of course, we are not going to accept lessons of democracy from the CUP, from En Comú Puem, which support the regime of Cuba, let alone from Esquerra Republicana, twice couptista and ninety years to recognize that they have no social basis for independence. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.53.0	Yes, Mr. Cid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.54.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... but – I should have already made the intervention – we ask for a separate vote on points 2, 4 and 5; 4 and 5 could be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.55.0	2, 4 and 5: separate vote from these points. [[Antonio Gallego Burgos asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Gallego?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.56.0	We call for a separate vote on points 3, 6, 2, 5 and 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.57.0	Three, six, two, five and four. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.58.0	Please ask for the reading of items 4 and 5 before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.59.0	Okay. Any other petitions? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right. Vote separately, then. Now we're voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has held 50 votes in favour, 84 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has held 42 affirmative votes, 85 negative votes and 8 abstentions. We're voting point four now, and we're pre-reading it. I'm asking you to do the secretary first.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.60.0	[[The secretary first starts talking without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] Now, sure, yeah. « Respect the feelings of belonging of all the citizens of Catalonia and condemn any attempt at confrontation between Catalans and Catalans, and between Catalans and Catalans and the rest of Spanish and Spanish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.61.0	The vote begins. This point was rejected with 50 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 11 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote, before reading point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.62.0	« Respect all the official languages of Catalonia and guarantee its use and knowledge, as marked by our Catalan status mark.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.63.0	The vote begins. This point was rejected with 50 votes in favour and 85 votes against. Let's now proceed to the vote on Point 6. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 42 votes to 85, with 8 abstentions. And now we proceed to the vote on the rest of the motion, which are points 1, 7 and 8. The vote begins. The motion was rejected with 53 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the lines of action for the transformation of the economic model in the long term]] [[302-00018/13]] Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day, the twenty-three, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the lines of action for the long term transformation of the economic model. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of Common We can and have, to expose it, the words of Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.64.0	Well, then, members of the Bureau, deputies and deputies, councillors, good morning. In the question we asked the Government in the previous plenary, we used it to push forward actions and policy measures that would address the transformation of our economic model and that would lead to social, economic and environmental challenges. And we were in a position to do so as a social justice clause, as a climate change clause, as a feminist clause, as a stimulus for a new model of cures and jobs, as well as for the values of cooperation and collaboration in the face of the values of competitiveness, and we did so too, say, as a key to real democracy, also to businesses. Obviously, the motion, the proposals of the motion do not exhaust the possibilities of changes and transformations, but point out, we believe, some lines of work that are possible to push and that can have effects already in the short and medium term. It will, of course, depend on political will, and also, of course, on the ability to build consensus and alliances on the part of the government and to push it forward. The motion, as we say, places proposals on different axes. In the first, in the fight against climate change, the willingness to give major compromises to government actions and also assumptions with climate change and sustainability. From this point of view, we find that sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda are a good indicator of the work to be done. But they must also allow priority to be given to the management of public spending and investment and, obviously, also to the greater capacity of taxation to influence changes in the population and the promotion of good practices in this sense. Therefore, from this point of view, it will be necessary to promote the economic action of the Government from sustainable contracting. Let us not forget that almost the third part of the Generality's assumptions allow, from the purchase of goods and services or direct investment, to establish in the tenders sustainability commitments by the companies that participate in them. And I must also, of course, intervene in mobility. What a model of mobility we promote. This is why we also have one of the proposals in this zero-kilometre strategy in infrastructures which, in short, means halting the construction of motorways, of new road investments, to focus on the electrification of our mobility from the electrolines and also from all the investment in railways and trams that allow the greater connectivity of the city to the wider territory of Catalonia. Another of the work axes that we place in the movement, in the proposals, is to advance in a more feminist economy; therefore, an economy based on uncompetitive values and which puts in value the cures and the jobs. And, therefore, we find proposals to push for change in the model of cures and also to promote positive action that allows us to know more deeply the ultimate causes, which are the ones that will need to be combated, which are at the basis of the negative effects that the pandemic is having on the corresponding exercise of personal, family and work life. For what makes the economic model more just and socially compromised, we also propose a follow-up of questions that have to do with the ability of the Government, the Administration of the Generality, to be a driver of change, to be subject to active transformations of the economic behaviors that today are at the basis of inequality and social injustice. For this reason, the measures aim to strengthen the public character and quality of public services. We place it especially in sanitation, but it is obviously extendable to the conjunct of public services, in order to avoid externalizations that are justified as to whether they are at all, but that do not end up guaranteeing neither quality services nor universality, and that end up devaluing working conditions. We want to compromise, too, the capacity of public contracting, to promote changes in enterprises, promote fair and responsible labour relations, also relations, in the case of the Generality, with its own employees and public employees. And when we talk about Catalan minimum wages, we understand that we can't do this either on the sidelines of the Administration's ability to compromise that this Catalan minimum wage already applies to businesses working for the Administration. And we also clearly find that the Generalitat is exemplary in its labour relations. And we also propose, lastly, to advance in economic democracy, to promote the social and solidary economy, but also to accompany it with democracy to the enterprise. It means workers' participation in corporate governance. And the generality, like for example, that starts with public enterprises. And obviously there are also some elements of social justice, of economic democracy, which is equal, as would be the updating of the tax of... – I'm sorry – of Catalonia's performance indicator. Therefore, there are proposals that we believe are in line with the change and transformation of the economic model that we need today. All right, all right, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.65.0	Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.66.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs, we find ourselves before this commons' motion, on the lines of action for the transformation of the economic model in the long term. In the first place, show the agreement position of most points of the motion presented and, in this sense, also aggravate the accepted statements proposed for our group. The economic transition, the transition of the economic model is an obvious necessity. After the 2008 crisis and the pandemic, and above all the austerity planted as received before that situation, it has demonstrated at this time, after the health, economic and social crisis, as the seams have already faded, the model, from the point of view of inequalities and the environmental sustainability of the model. Therefore, the model change is an essential, unavoidable and necessary reality. However, we must also comment..., we want to make reference to the intervention of the Government in the person of the Councillor Giró in the previous inquiry in this case, in which he did, let us say, a certain reference to the fact that everything worked reasonably well for the Catalan economy, and, therefore – and I believe to quote it quite literally – "when one thing works well – and referring to the economy –, "better not to make inventions. We, in this sense, do not share this diagnosis, we believe that there are enough elements and probabilities that indicate that it is also necessary from this perspective to face clearly a transformation of the economic model: the loss of economic leadership from Catalonia to Spain since 2008; the flight of workers; the backwardness of the industrial sector– we have lost two per cent of the population occupied in this area in the last two years– and also the index of industrial production; the fall of foreign investment in the year 2020, while other communities increased it; it falls into productivity, if we understand it from the point of view of total productivity of the factors, and we also have a concern about compliance with situations in Europe. Therefore, we do not share this position, if I may, a tancredist point, and we do not believe that getting stuck in self-completion is at these moments a possible, valid and necessary option. We believe that we need to lead the transformation, get out of the comfort zone and clearly undertake these reforms and measures. We coincide, in any case, yes, in the method. We believe that the method, according to what you considered, must be based on reforms, progressive reforms, profound meaningful reforms, and we would allow ourselves to add to this economic model as a matter of urgency. We believe, therefore, that it must be based on the reality that we have of our actions and our potentialities, but also assuming who are our weaknesses and the challenges that we must assume. The objectives that we set in this necessary transition of an economic model pass through the necessary creation of wealth, for the establishment of a redistributive model, must be urgently reversed the tendency to increase social inequalities, with particular attention to gender inequalities, and guarantee equal opportunities, and, finally, an ecological transition must be carried out urgently, which must be, moreover, social and just work. Allow me quickly, to finish, some concrete or valuations on the concrete points of the motion. We understand how positive and necessary the introduction of values in the credit granting mechanisms, credit institutions of the ICF, as values in themselves and also as the transformation tool of this economic model. We also believe that we need to introduce these valuation criteria into the conditional departures, so that we can also introduce the same concepts, values in the economy and also use them as the vector, as the instrument of transformation of the economic model. It may be present in this case, and it is not to deny it, that the value, value, impact of the public contract on the GDP conjunction is around fifteen per cent. Therefore, it is a first-order magnitude that can be taken into account as an important element. We have repeated many times: to participate actively, as is said in the agreement, in all, absolutely in all instruments, bilateral and multilateral mechanisms to defend the interests of Catalonia in the matter of self-government and self-financing. Don't let it happen to us that the Bernat table isn't what's not counted. And so it must be-there. Regarding the model of cures we agree, but above all implement it urgently. We know what to do and, therefore, to go beyond the pact, to bring it to fruition quickly. Green taxation sets it apart, we share it. We understand that it must be in a global concept that we have also defended on repeated occasions. Regarding the infrastructure we agree. This does not mean that we will continue to defend the large infrastructures in other areas and materials. And respect the last point, the 14th, but show our disagreement with the abandonment of the Hard Rock project. Finally, ask for a separate vote on points 8.b and 14. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.67.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.68.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor Giró, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... Deputy Gallego, I would like to thank you for your willingness to talk to us at all times. Also his British mood plays at the last minute, yesterday, after all day chasing us with messages and..., many thanks for his collaboration. Miri, I'm sure we agree, with a very large majority of this chamber, that from now on we all want a Catalonia that is closer and more Catalan. In this we could agree to the hundred per cent of..., that is, in two years we would like to imagine that we have progressed more, that we have created more wealth, that we have shared it better and that the Catalan identity is more alive and stronger. So, I'm sure we agree here. And in this sense, this is why in many ways we have agreed and negotiated, the two government parties, Juntas and Esquerra, and we have come to a great deal of agreement in climate change, in sustainability, sustainable contract, which you said here, in feminism... You have spoken of economic democracy, which has intrigued us in Juntas; with the Canadian deputy we see what economic democracy means. The participation... I'm sure we'll have time to talk to each other and I can explain it to you. And so, so, that's why we've dealt with a large majority of points and we'll have big votes won a lot more. The one that happens, that, well, there are other things in which we don't agree. And in this sense, therefore, we would vote that not in some presuppositional requests that is fan in the Government of the Generality, with a rush and a timetable that is agreed with the unions. For example, another thing..., for example, reverse the 2014 arrears, which has been awarded to social workers to do this year and the year they see. You're asking us all for this year. We'll say no here. But, of course, you think that... I really liked the five points that you have presented on autonomous financing, the reform of the autonomous financing model, asking the Catalan Government: "What is the proposal of the Catalan Government? Presented the proposal. Well, we've stopped being proactive since years ago, because, so, we've seen that the LOFCA, the law on the financing of autonomous communities, has expired since 2014. And, therefore, you are now in the central government with the Socialist Party and you are responding to the initiative to make proposals. Certainly, I've seen that lately there's a lot of valence in this chamber, that's to say, its socialist deputies go to València, they're taking pictures with the advisors of València... Before it was said that the Catalanists or the independenceists had "Basquitis, eh? When the lehendakari Ibarretxe makes proposals, etc. There are now valencianitis. Listen, Jo, I love life. Jo, miri, I have published five books in València on autonomous financing in the decade of 2006– new Statute, fiscal balances, tax policy... I have edited the Eliseu Climent, Editorial Three and Four. So, Jo, it's life's enchantment. But, listen, you have already read the interviews with the Valencian Economics Councillor Vincent Soler, who talks about « we have to agree on the new model of financing with the People's Party, « without the People's Party will not agree, « does the reform of the financing system have to be a state pact? Therefore, therefore, here you also have work to do, not only we have to do this work. Miri, I, in any case, the year 2006, when there was the tripartite government with Councillor Castells, I was a member of the Joint State-General Commission to publish fiscal balances. The fiscal balances, therefore, could be published by you; the last ones that were published were for the year 2006, the government of Rodríguez Zapatero, and Pedro Solbes had also donated data to publish fiscal balances, and we had had twenty years of fiscal balances. Now we have no king; we have complete and absolute silence, don't we? Miri, I recall a debate with Angel de la Fuente, l'any 2006, who said: "We have to publish the fiscal balances, because, if not, the state will lose the debate because of incomparence. So it's been 15 years and we're fifty-two percent independentist government, independentist vote, huh? And that can go uphill. If you do not make any proposals and we hope that it will be a new government of the People's Party that manages it, then perhaps there will still be more independent votes. So we're not done. Therefore, this work you do not charge to the Generalitat, but you do also do the part that they play to them, that you govern to Madrid. And, finally, thanks for giving us the opportunity to vote on Hard Rock, you will see which vast majority is in favor of this project, in Tarragona, of sustainable tourism. Port Aventura assumed a jump of better quality of family tourism, of upgrading of the tourism of the Costa Daurada, and this also meant better wages for all workers. Hard Rock is a model of business tourism that can still bring more value added to the lands of Tarragona. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.69.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Josep Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.70.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Giró, deputies and deputies, means that facing a challenge as ambitious as marking lines of action to transform the economic model of the country from a young person is a complicated challenge. We are ahead of a subject of great pretension, of great descent and of great transcendence for the country. And we are all aware that the limitations of interrogations and motions obviously make it difficult for us here today to really respond to the expectations generated by the title of this motion. In fact, last week we had the opportunity to enjoy the appearance of the two people who came to represent the collection and the group of experts to whom the Government was entrusted during the previous legislature a study on how to deal with the post-pandemic reptes, the reptes from 2023 onwards, in a report which we all seemed to have been able to listen, from a very high point of view, from a very high point of view, from an exercise of more than a year of many experts of much polyvalent and very transversal scope, and which seems to me to have actually made a good approach and which is, in some way, a tool, one of many experts of much practical and much cross-sectional scope, and which seems to have actually made a good one approach, and which is, in fact, a very difficult one, and a very difficult one, in the past, of all kinds of government, and, in the future, of complexity. The young woman is a huge young woman, a pot of many questions. With most of them, we can agree, and for this reason we will end up voting in a positive way a very important part of its content. But, for another band, there are also some recurring mantras, which also referred to the Member of Parliament Tremosa a few moments ago to some of them, the mantras that to solve the problems of our economy we must go in a disciplined way to the multilateral organs that call the State. There are also other mantras, as we have to make proposals, the Government of Catalonia must make proposals in this House, in three months, on the financing model of the Spanish Autonomous Communities. As has been said, seven years ago the model was expired; seven years ago the Spanish State should have made proposals, that it should have implemented them, and today it is demanded that the Government of Catalonia put it to Parliament, which we do not understand well either, and that you should do the work that you should do; that you should do that you are governing the Government of the Spanish State. Another of the classics that also appeared to all the motions is that we have to solve the tax fraud on the basis of an agreement between the Catalan Tax Administration and the Spanish, when they know perfectly well that the Catalan Tax Administration and all those in the Spanish State are demanding that data and tax information be created and the Spanish State be denied; a deal with which the Spanish State is denied. Example: information about the non-declared assets located in the foreigner. It's been years since the rules... that's where the main defrauders are. The Government of the State is refusing to transfer it not only to Catalonia, but to the conjunction of the State of the Autonomous Communities. Another mantra: the taxation on the game. Today in Catalonia, the taxation on the game is of the highest – it is of the highest – of the Spanish state. Previously... Casinos are fifty percent of the win; the highest of the Spanish State – fifty percent of the win. And if not, he asks the Barcelona Casino what it is paying and what it is liquidating at the end of the year. Pay..., receive 225_million euros from the face-to-face game. Where we have the problem is the online game, which is where we have the competitions of the Spanish State. And, as you know, to the last assumptions of the 2021 state, from the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, an attempt to reverse the downside that Minister Montoro applied to the online game, and the majority of the government of the Spanish state voted against it and could not deploy. However, we absolutely share the first point of the 14th of the motion, the objectives of sustainable development, which, as you know, we incorporated into the assumptions of 2020 that we negotiated with your parliamentary group, that we were pioneers in incorporating indicators of social welfare and also linking them to sectoral policies with the objectives of sustainable development. We have finished trading four..., five papers with the proposing group; four papers are accepted, of the papers we have submitted. Therefore, we will vote in favour of a very substantial part of the motion and, in this sense, we hope that during the next few months, in the framework of the negotiation of the assumptions, these intentions can be realized. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.71.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy – A New Cycle for Winning, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.72.0	Thank you, President. We're in a young lady who's a little complicated to approach her in her integrity, because there's everything. We're talking about the transformation of the economic model, and then it looks like we can put everything in it, and obviously, things are missing. If we are talking about transformation of an economic model, we hear some of them, because in order to transform, in the long run, the transformation of the economic model does not just make it very clear that there are certain elements that need to be dependent on the State or participation or debate on the model of autonomous financing, but, well, there are elements that are interesting. Some of the things that worry us, though. It is this mantra, now, in which it generates a consensus practically to the whole parliamentary arch that the 2030 Agenda and the objectives of sustainable development are the future. Let's talk about objectives that first and continue to put economic growth at the center of the debate and subject sustainability objectives to economic growth. At a time when we are in a climate crisis, a climate emergency, subjecting sustainability to economic growth is a little incompatible, as we hear it. And, therefore, we believe that we should go further and not, in the background, adapt to the mantras or transformations of what neoliberalism is, which puts green all the way through, in the background, to continue to do the same. We are pleased that the Socialist Party has accepted and placed in this motion the fear that, in fact, the Socialist Party has made, which has surprised us with gratitude, in favor of the internalization of the sanitary transport and of the 061. Three days ago, our parliamentary group entered into a bill to hold a debate on the internalisation of health transport, to internalize it before the contracts of the lots were concluded, that the majority began to end as of November and that, therefore, it is necessary for this Parliament to resolve around this and recover the health transport, thus bringing the political practices of Boi Ruiz to the Health Department of the Government of the best. And we hope that, in this case, then, the Socialist Party will not make up its support, as it did yesterday with the interns, through a decree that it does that it is more precarious and does not support the proposal of the law that was here in Parliament for the stability of the interns. We're celebrating that you're in agreement with the... , with the internalisation of 061 and health transport. In relation to public procurement, one of the elements that we are concerned about is that we talk a lot about public procurement, social clauses, environmental clauses, but after that there are no mechanisms to follow these clauses, to check that contractors actually respect what they say at the time of the contract competitions and, above all, that the mechanisms that the Public Administration has after being in many, but not in coercive capacity for these companies. And the fines... to the vast majority of contractors, who end up with big deals, are more likely to pay the fine than to guarantee labor rights or to do what remains to be established in the clauses. So, you accepted a message from us that established the need to give follow-up, didn't you? , to these contracting criteria and generate the necessary mechanisms to terminate the contract. And finally, because they've accepted all of our papers, which we appreciate. We're concerned that this is about the fact that Hard Rock is sustainable tourism. Hard Rock is a casino and it's urban speculation, and, in fact, as we said a long time ago, the Generalitat has ended up making APIs of the Box placing or staying the lands transitively. And the other: that the game's tax should be the highest in Catalonia, no problem; it is that the game, bets and casinos should make us look for what they serve, at a time when the indices of mental health and addictions in this country are on the rise and, therefore, perhaps what we should start to plant is that the practices of certain gambling, casinos and games should prohibit them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.73.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.74.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Communism... [[Rialles.]] Hey? David... David, David. Are you a communist or are you not a communist? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Are you a communist or not?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.75.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.76.0	Communism – Communism – red, violet, green or multicolored, isn't it? I don't know why you're laughing so much, because sometimes you say clearly that you're communists; other days..., anyway. « The one you love so much, he said, only sows poverty, misery [[Funnel veils]] and stop – and stop. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Will you shut up? Can you shut this gentleman up?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.77.0	Please, Mr. Congressman, be quiet. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.78.0	Do you think you're in school? Are you in school? [[Pause.]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.79.0	Go on, Mr. Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.80.0	Communism, red, violet, green or multicolored, on the 2030 agenda that you so much defend, huh? , it only sows misery, poverty and unemployment where it applies. I would take time in this intervention to list all the examples that come to my mind. So you won't be surprised if I say we're going to vote against this motion, because it triggers a Marxist tuphilus – look, I'm going to tell you too: Marxist – who pulls back. Over-interventionism, there is a lack of confidence in people's economic freedom. It is loaded with moral and ideological mantras that have nothing to do with the real economy or the needs of Catalan companies. Excessive driving, red tape, adjectives to sweeten what you really pursue: that administrations control it absolutely everything, right? Many things they don't talk about – many things they don't talk about – in this motion. And they also talk about so many others, so many. I do not know whether there are fourteen or fifteen points, but of course many important issues are left behind. They talk too much about the 2030 agenda, which some of us discuss; this apocalyptic ecology is permeated at all points of the motion; they talk without blushing about the creation of new figures and green taxes that eventually pay all citizens; many more regulations; increase in public spending, etc.. As if the money fell from the trees, didn't it? , that this is one of the things that characterizes quite the management of the far left people, isn't it? We won't be more prosperous if we create a fiscal, bureaucratic, sectarian, and liberticide hell, huh? If your phobia to the private sector allows it, talk to small entrepreneurs in Catalonia and ask if all these measures that you propose here are what they need. You here have talked very little about reindustrialization. They have talked very little about innovation, very little about talent, they have not even made reference to the Next Generation funds, little about training. Nor have they talked about lateness – it is a subject that worries companies a lot in Catalonia –; nor about industrial urbanism; as I said before, little taxes, and the political instability generated by the process, which is one of the things for which, therefore, more than 4,500 companies since 2017 have left Catalonia. And that is one of the issues that is absolutely fundamental if we want the economy to work in Catalonia. In short, Mr Gallego, it is a motion that, in the end, is a totum revolutum that leaves what is important in the tinker, isn't it? And to finish, because, finally, I'm practically out of time, I do want to make a reference, don't I? , i.e. if you have the miraculous pocima, why not apply it in the Government of Spain? You've been ruling for three or four years, haven't you? How are the indicators of the Spanish economy doing? Any more stops? The highest youth unemployment in Europe. The debt is fired at 125 points of GDP. Anyway... taxes; every week they create a new tax. That is, if they really have the miraculous formula to solve the economy, to create jobs, to boost the economy, etc., why not apply it? Why do you come here to explain to us..., I don't know, that you have here the balm of Fierabrás that will fix everything, but instead where you have important power share, along with your Socialist Party partners who have supported some points of this motion, finally, why don't you apply it? Because, of course, I have advice that I don't have. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.81.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.82.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Mr Gallego... well, you've raised, or you've raised a complex motion, practically impossible to deal with in five minutes, including in half an hour. They're talking about the model change produced like the repte. We see this young man, so two different parts. For one thing, this supposed product model change proposal. And, on the other hand, they talk about, I think, or at least I understand, the social protection system, which may or may not be linked. For us it is linked in a different way that it is for you, but yes, they talk about it. Reviewing the proposal, I think that at least we agree on the need to work for a product model change, and that's important, and so things are not going well. I suppose the appreciation of the reality of our product fabric that you make from In Comú may be critical. Go on, I understand that, and we think that what they think is that things aren't going well. But until here the coincidence. It is obvious that we do not share a good part of the solutions that you determine priorities to reverse this situation. We may agree on part of the diagnosis, a small part of the diagnosis, but not on the proposals that our society believes it demands. The new model – at least, we believe – that demands society is a new model that means an increase in value chains, in production, in the productive sectors, especially those that are strategic, that ultimately increases the value of what we produce, that generates a better of the efficiency and effectiveness of our production, and that ends up going back all this into the social protection system, which is the second part of its purpose: to generate more value to redistribute it through the welfare system; a strong welfare system, which places education – for us, education and training – at the centre of this new model, as a engine of renewal and dynamism. That would be our Liberal proposal. I may or may not like it, but I think it's basic and, possibly, common sense – we would match a lot of what we're here. We can't find this in this young man. It's not a young man who helps us to get the reality of our own people, and that's what he said... you ask if this young man really will help the local people to keep it easier to innovate, to start, or, unlike that, makes it harder for them to still live after a pandemic and the crisis we're experiencing. The first part of the receipts that you display here to modify the product model, at least for us also goes to change the ecosystem where this product model is found. For us, the product environment, this business ecosystem that we are talking about, must take as structural values the release of charges, both fiscal and administrative, the facilitation of movements for business dynamism, entrepreneurship, the innovation to be made or to be made by any company, and the regulation that allows them a free competition in the same conditions, also; liberal receptions, of common sense and that surely everyone could share. It is also important to think that the generality of the productive sectors, and in these conditions that we find ourselves, could make a safe migration to a new model; but what model? For us the model is definitely a model of research, technological transfer and knowledge, where entrepreneurship and vocational training, these cases are also at the center of the changes. In short, they present a motion that we in a few points – I don't have time, I have already told him that it is impossible to talk about this topic in five minutes–..., we support everything I suppose to be in these lines that I have expressed, in these lines where education is, where really knowledge is at the center of the product model. You use other concepts that we can collect in part: ecology, feminism... Well, we give for supposing that the company needs to share these values, but I think that the product model needs to be based precisely on a change of view and a change of use of knowledge, research and technology transfer, and the transfer of this knowledge to business. And with this change and this rich creation, so change not just the product model, the social model, and the social protection model. It would basically be that. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.84.0	Thank you, President. Well, various considerations about the young man. First, I continue to seem a bit presumptuous, I have to say, to think that it is not only possible to transform the economic model, but to change the world through a young man in the Parliament of Catalonia. I think we would have..., if we had a problem with agreeing with the most insignificant things, so we would agree here to change the world... I would ask for a little more humility in the setting up of the motions, and the Lord..., perhaps not in such a strong way, but Mr. Lluís Salvadó believes that he has also referred to this excess of ambition of the motions, which they do that..., honestly, I don't know how to approach them, right? I also find it unusual to try to get everyone to take on their electoral agenda every time they make a motion, in some motions that never end, very late, that it is a very common practice in the motions of the commons, and that I ask them to do so... because, really, every time they present a motion is an authentic torture, huh? I'll tell you with all due respect. Third point. The 2030 Agenda is not a government program of public administrations of compulsory compliment. Not sir. They are objects to which you can come from various ways. Why am I saying that? Because for you the 2030 agenda is an electoral program of the left. So no. And, besides, his speech is dangerous. And it's basically dangerous for a reason: because if it were that way, if this agenda were to be complimented, then it wouldn't be good to have a Parliament of Catalonia or Congress of Deputies, it would just be good to have a world government and everything from here on out. Actually, this speech is doing a lot of damage. And the positive things on the 2030 agenda... I don't see any positive things, but others do. He's carrying raons, a lot of people, saying this looks like a world government. And that of the world government has not been raised by anyone. Therefore, we cannot assume that your vision of the 2030 Agenda is a compliment, because it is not true. Four points. This mania that you have to force the companies to complete some drastic conditions that make your business project absolutely impossible, when they now need exactly the opposite. We will also vote against these points. Five. I didn't just hear this funding strategy just with the Balearics and the Valencian Community. Why? Why only with them? I'm asking, huh? Either way, a whole head. Actually, it's the only one that worked, historically. When Spanish funding agreements have been made, it is either all autonomous communities or it is absolutely impossible. And there have been a few; certainly, some very profitable for Catalonia. Six. This claim to liquidate public-private cooperation in Catalonia, especially in the health field. Well, we understand that this is one of the few things that still works very well in Catalonia; therefore, we will vote on this proposal rather than on this one. And where we will support those measures of fulfilling the commitments signed and recognizable with the public workers of Catalonia, in the final part of the motion. And, President, I don't know exactly – because, of course, there are so many points... – of what points to ask for a separate vote, because it can be an embolism. I don't know, I understand that maybe you'll have to vote almost every point separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. At the moment, we only had the petition that was expressed during the use of the words, asking for point 8.b and point 14, but we'll wait until it's over and see if the spokespersons give me any other indication. In any case, now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Joan Carles Gallego. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.86.0	Well, thank you. If you haven't had enough five minutes to talk about the young man, imagine... is that fifty-five? [[Pause.]] Two minutes. Imagine with the fifty and the rest of me to position myself in relation to what you said. I want to thank the deputy of VOX who has called me, or who has called us communists and Marxists in this young man. I believe that what he has done to me is to remember a poem of these of anonymous poetic archaeology, because it is withdrawn from Francoist prisons, from a worker who said: "The smoke of the factory divides the sky into two parts: to the right, hell; to the left, hope. I believe that the foundation of the young man's vision is this idea that in the dilemma of the most market or the most state, we know that the most market is not working for us and that what we need is public leadership, more state, a stronger state..., a state..., an administration, in this case, a government of the Generality, able to lead, from the public sector, the economic transformations that this country needs, because these economic transformations are also the material bases for changing social life, the situation of people. And this is the direction of the young man. And if it turns, God, on the objectives of sustainable development it is because they are objective, but they are objectives that must guide the action of the Government. There are some questions that have been said that you would like to place – two. The theme of Hard Rock. The theme of Hard Rock is not a model of territorial balance, sustainability or sustainable tourism. That is why we place our proposal here. But there's also a question that came out, which is the theme of the financing model. We need a financing model and we want this financing model to follow what Catalonia places in bilateral and multilateral negotiations, but we want it to be discussed in Parliament, because we want to do the Catalonia financing model, not the government model. It is possible that the debate here and we build a model of solidarity economic concert, where solidarity and co-responsibility can have self-sufficiency financed in order to develop the necessary skills of government. And that's why we're also talking about seeking alliances in the Catalan Countries, with Valencia and the Balearic Islands. [[Some applause. Marta Vilalta i Torres asks to speak]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.87.0	Yes, ma'am Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.88.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote. [[Pause.]] For a band, we'd ask point 6.c. I, for another gang... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 6.c. And, for another band, and all these could be grouped..., in some ways: the point 1a, 4.b, 5.c, 5.d, 6, 6.a, 6.b, 6.d, 8.b, which had already been requested, 10a, 10c, 10d, 11, 13 and 14, which had also been requested. Thank you. [[Joan García González asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.89.0	Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.90.0	If I want to save her reading all the points I want to ask for separately, and we vote them all separately and the subpoints.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.91.0	All separately? The UPC also asked for it, and Mr. Fernández also said so. Mr. Gallego, too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.92.0	Points and sub-points, I should be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.93.0	Points and letters, yes, yes. I've already imagined... I've been taking notes, but almost... so do it. We're voting for point 1.a. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 1st. Point 1.a_has remained with 50 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 9 abstentions. Fem ara 1.b. I'm sorry, just a moment. The vote begins. The 1.b_has remained with 111 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 12 abstentions. And we make the 1. The vote begins. Point 1 was approved by 112 votes to 14, with 9 abstentions. We're doing point two now. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved by 106 votes to 14, with 15 abstentions. We are now voting on point 3. The vote begins. Point 3 was approved with 112 votes against, 11 abstentions... 11 votes against and 12 abstentions; 112 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 12 abstentions. We are now voting on Point 4. The vote begins. Point 4 was approved by 115 votes to 11, with 9 abstentions. We are now voting on point 4.a. The vote begins. Point 4a was approved by 115 votes to 11, with 9 abstentions. We are now voting on point 4.b. The vote begins. Point 4.b was not approved; it has 50 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now voting on point 5. The vote begins. Point 5 was approved by 115 votes to 11, with 9 abstentions. We're voting 5th point now. The vote begins. Point 5a was approved by 115 votes to 14, with 6 abstentions. We're voting now on point 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b_has been approved with 115 votes in favour, 14 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now on point 5.c. The vote begins. Point 5.c has not been approved; it has 50 votes in favour, 85 votes against. We're voting now for point 5.d. The vote begins. The 5.d_point was rejected with 50 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 41 votes to 85, with 9 abstentions. We're voting 6th point now. The vote begins. Point 6.a_has been rejected by 41 votes to 85, with 9 abstentions. We're voting point 6.b now. The vote begins. The 6.b_point was rejected with 41 votes in favour, 94 votes against and no abstentions. We're voting now on point 6.c. The vote begins. The 6.c_point was rejected..., I'm sorry, it was approved with 47 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 68 abstentions. We're voting now on point 6.d. The vote begins. Point 6.d_has received 41 votes in favour, 85 against and 9 abstentions. Let's now vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved with 132 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We're voting now on the 7-a point. The vote begins. This point was approved with 121 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 12 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. This point was approved with 115 votes in favour, 14 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting for point 8.a now. The vote begins. Point 8a_a was approved with 115 votes in favour, 14 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now on point 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b_has received 17 votes in favour, 85 against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved with 121 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10 has been approved with 134 votes in favour. Ten. The vote begins. [[Pause.]] At the beginning. [[Pause.]] Now. Point 10a has 70 votes in favour and 64 votes against. We're voting 10b point now. The vote begins. Point 10.b_is approved with 124 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting now at 10.c. The vote begins. Point 10.c_was rejected with 59 votes in favour, 76 votes against. We're voting on the 10d point now. The vote begins. Point 10.d_has been rejected with 53 votes in favour, 76 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting 10th point now. The vote begins. Point 10.e_has been approved with 121 votes in favour, 11 against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has been rejected with 56 votes in favour, 76 against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12 was approved with 115 votes in favour, 14 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 41 votes to 85, with 9 abstentions. And finally we vote on point number 14. The vote begins. Point 14_has been rejected with 17 votes in favour and 118 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the new organization of the Department of Economics and History]] [[302-00024/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-four point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the new organization of the Department of Economy and History. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, to expose it has the word of the MP Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.94.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Members and Members, today the Socialists Group presents the following motion to the question that we wanted to make to the Councillor Giró in relation to the new organization chart of the Department of Economy and History, in concrete terms we focused on the Secretary of Dissemination, which may be dislocated in that department, but it is true that it is important and relevant, because it is with the objective of managing and inserting all the institutional information, the institutional publicity of the Government of Catalonia; therefore, it has its relevance. The first thing we've done in this young man is recognize the public service pocket that does all the communication media and, above all, that they did during the pandemic. It's been a long time, the task they've carried out, especially in those weeks we've been confined and we can only inform ourselves through the communication media, they're already in català or castella or in the idiom that follows. But it is true that it has been very important to pass the information on to the citizenry and we want to make a reassessment to all of them from the Parliament. Also, in relation to what we have already commented on in the inquiry, we want the Government to give a compliment to what is approved in this Parliament, whether it is a law or a decree. And, in this concrete case, the decree referring to the advisory commission in advertising, because it does not meet more than one and a half months ago, from before the pandemic, it is not consulted, but it is explained the campaigns that have already been made. In fact, the year 2019 was called to disembark and, therefore, you already see, therefore, that, man, everything had passed. And we believe that this decree is to be fulfilled in which it is demanded that this committee be convened, that it be consulted, since there are professionals in this committee, independents, representing many sectors, who can actually make the task for which we have called them, somehow. And that seems to us to be important. After we asked that the memos, which are not there, are published on the web. There is neither 2019 nor 2020 and, therefore, an effort must be made to ensure that the information is followed, and we are bound by the law. So we think we can't let these things go. It is important that we not only inform the parliamentary groups, but also the citizenry, of this, for example, expense or reversal that is done in institutional advertising. And lastly, therefore, what we are asking is that it is present in two months, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, as is the management of the marked agreement on management and advertising that ended in the month of October and that, therefore, the new management has to be done so that we have another occasion that this one has ended, that it has held three years of validity, two more for the budgetary prorogation. And, in addition, we also ask for the new mark to be approved. This is what we want you to come and explain to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Just as we want it to be presented, in two months, therefore, what must be the criteria established by the Secretary of Dissemination with regard to the resources, or the distribution of resources that is done in the communication media. It seems important to us that they are clear, precise and transparent. And, therefore, we believe that it is a good way to start this new phase of the Councillor Turned to the front of the Economic and History Council, this transparency in relation to the other groups. We've cleared different items in this young man. I would especially like to thank the groups of Republican Left and Juntes for Catalonia for their motions. Moreover, they have had a lot of waist to try to accept the transactions that we have made to them, that obviously the contributions of the groups improve the motion and, therefore, I want to thank that they have been generous in this sense. We also did not get one of the UPC that was not accepted, because we gave it to Congresswoman Reguant that, while we share that it is necessary to recognize the media that use the use of the catalá, it is true that this young man is not about this. And we want to make a reassessment of everyone, because everyone has helped us, especially in this pandemic, to have the necessary information. And I can't say the same, Mrs Grau, from the Ciutadans Group, because, even though they had proposed some transactions to make it also help to improve the text, so, finally, for not accepting a topic in which Ciutadans, so changing the amount of the previous motion we talked about on the basis of coexistence, wanted to eliminate the advertising council. We believe that destroying things is not the way; we believe that if they don't work, they need to be reformed, they need to be changed, they need to be improved, that's what I would surely be close to. Nor is it the fault of the advertising advisory commission that I don't summon you, but the government, and that's why we ask the new secretary of Diffusion who takes into account and counts with all the professionals who are there. And only one suggestion, counselor. The secretary of Diffusion we believe should have an institutional neutrality profile: he is the secretary of Diffusion of all Catalans and, therefore, we hope that you will do so. Because we have seen, therefore, some commentaries to the networks that we believe are not close to a person who, moreover, has to have this element based on his work and his trajectory, at least while he is Secretary of Diffusion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.95.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, she has the word to defend the papers presented by Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.96.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mrs Romero, for your kind words. Well, as you've seen, we're not looking for rings in Cities to trade when we think we need to trade, but we're not looking to keep the point when we think we need to keep it. I will try to be as brief and clear as possible in the five-minute period that Parliament's Rules of Procedure allow me to intervene to assess this motion by the Socialist Group, which, frankly, we do not know very well how to interpret. We do not know whether its objective is to put an end to scandalous practices or to whitewash them; whether we are here to compel the Generalitat to be accountable once and for all for how it distributes many millions of euros in institutional advertising through the back door, or whether we are here to help them wash even whiter, to be even less transparent and more arbitrary than they already are. You all know that I am a journalist; no one has to remind me of the fundamental role of the media, whether with a pandemic or without a pandemic. On the other hand, honestly, I do not get into my head except the Government of the Generalitat or, to be more precise, the Secretary General of Diffuse, which is the hose of subsidies that has once turned the Catalan oasis into a gulag where the private media can come to depend on public subsidies even more than the very same public media..., in short, if the Government of the Generalitat systematically violates its own laws and decrees, if it gets out of the way a Commission Advisor on Institutional Publicity and then neither summons it nor bothers to pretend that it serves anything, well, because I will be forgiven to learn little, little by little, this kind invitation from the Socialist Group to stop being bad boys. What is imposed in these cases is not a loving earshake, but an imperative call to order and to account immediately. It cannot be that compliance with the law is optional, be it opinionable, be it à la carte, "we will already do it when we come to like it. It is a scandal that at this point we have no news of the Commissioner's memoirs on Institutional Advertising for the years 2019 and 2020– i, sorry, it is not for the covid. It is a scandal this and it is a scandal to put a glimpse over the memory of the 18th, the last one published to date, and that, as you go through pages, you fall your soul to the ground. Very quickly. Summarizing only what happened between the diary and the digital diary, BTV, and the "What do we do? de La Vanguardia – and I'm sure I've left many things to myself – went to the Godó Group a total – in a year, huh? – EUR 4,773,419. In short, it's a cipher that makes the head cry, more so if we compare the 1,429,254_euros with the sad 261,678 that went to Catalonia Ràdio – it doesn't surprise me that the Diagonal is smoking in a pipe. Just like it does, see 408,608_euros for a medium as important as El Nacional. Cat, or 58,693 on the parliamentary bench – it's almost the sound of Mrs Puigdemont and not of her television show. By the way, we also found a few nine-thousand eurets discreetly destined for The New Barcelona Post, the digital diary that 2018 was of Foment del Traball, but that 2020 was recast under the wing of the current Economic Advisor, Mr. Jaume Giró. I myself had the short honor of writing it until my entry into the electoral list of Ciutadans proved incompatible with that collaboration. Well, without seeing the memory of 2020 we don't know if the Secretary General of Diffusion continued to feel as generous with the Mr. Turned out as he had before with Foment – we'll have to wait to see it. But, dear Mr. Giró – who you know I've always loved myself – if I get to see this memory in time I might have asked for more money for my articles, huh? - if the house is strong... Finally, unfortunately, we do not have time today to analyze in depth that amazing memory of the 18th, but believe me that it would be exciting to dedicate to it a full monograph, a few days, even to analyze how one can make the worst possible use of the institutional advertising of the Generalitat. All of us who were not born yesterday know that it is in the DNA of many governments to use that publicity not to energize the sector nor the means nor much less to campaign in the true interest of the citizenry, but to promote reinvention and chiringuitos, but, in the end..., and, above all, to shield the regime's media alliances. What's everybody doing? Yes – more than others. Finally, this is why we have presented a sequence of items that do not go to all, do not go in the form, do it in the background, and the most important of all is that this committee is suppressed – which acts as a coverter, which acts as a whitewasher – and that the information comes directly to Parliament, comes directly to the Economic Commission, as there have been other precedents, such as the ACC report on audiovisual plurality– ehem–, which, well, has been made directly to the Bureau and to the parliamentary committee groups of the body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.97.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.98.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Well, in this case, surely among the many names that the Department of Economics has made, surely Mr Llombart's name has deserved even more, therefore, a motion here in Parliament, right? I'm sure after that question last week. Well, beyond the anecdote, in any case, we also appreciate the PSC and Units to move forward, so the right thing to do to get through our reviews. And, in any case, there were, obviously, a lot of obvious points to which we also went from Juntes to Catalunya. To thank all press media that make their public function long this year difficult 2020-2021 in the pandemic march, therefore, for the important task they have made of helping to spread the messages of the Government, especially since the Procicate and Health and the other departments involved in the pandemic. So, in this sense, we are specifically there. And we also regret that the CUP has not been accepted in this sense also to make a special reference to those media that compete in a very complex market, serving, therefore, the official language of Catalonia, which is Catalan. But in any case, we also need to be aware, as I will then do, that when institutional advertising is contracted or when government action is disseminated, it must also take into account the targets to which it is intended to reach. And, therefore, sometimes in our country there are also people who have to arrive in other languages that are different from the strictly... so, the català. And, therefore, this must also be taken into account in this sense. Or even when it's promoted abroad, it's also to be served by middlemen, obviously... who are neither the català nor the castle, eh? Not the official languages of the State, but they have to be there, as we say, where the message is to be directed. In this case, a tourist promotion or an industrial investment capture promotion, whatever. Also, in the second place..., in fact, with Mr Llombart, so, and from the will of the Department of Economy and the Secretary of Diffusion, give compliment to what is provided for in the 2007 decree and, therefore, we enter into this compromise, huh? , to account for the memory. We recognize that of 2019, even though it is said that no, because with a whole parliament and some commissions affected throughout the pandemic, surely it was not the right time to do so. In any case, Mr Llombart offers himself and will ask to compare, in this case, to the Economic Commission – his predecessor did so in November to the CAI – to give account of the memory 2019 and 2020, and, therefore, to give compliment, in fact, to which you foresee the law, and at the same time to publish it on the web in the term..., here we say one_month, the PSC, and so we have accepted..., to publish these memos on the web. Beyond that, too, it is demanded, therefore, that a brand new agreement is created. In fact, the current Mark Agreement, as you know, the term is October, and, therefore, also the department and the secretary, in this case, more than extending this Agreement, what is envisaged is to make a new Mark Agreement, huh? , which, therefore, can also be subtacted to approval with the maximum of consent and, therefore, can replace the existing one. Finally, to give, as I said before, a reflection: that the criteria that many times are also used to criticize, therefore, the generality's dissemination action cannot be strictly linguistic or purely audience or purely geographic, because also... we think that there are local press media, there are press media that cannot compete in hearings with other media, but also that the action of the Government of Catalonia also arrives in the form of a message, right? And also, as I said before, not only with a language. In fact, unlike what the state does, for example, right? , what do you do with institutional propaganda, huh? , Renfe, AENA, Lotteries, never do it in Catalan or Arabic publishing media. On the contrary, it does, the Generalitat, to make this variation. And so, in this sense, also recognize the difficult work of the smaller media, the local press media, huh? , and as we say, in short, of the whole set of the journalism sector, which has also had a very, very complex year, a year and a half. And, therefore, from here the will, therefore, to continue to spread the government's action, because, as they say in the world of diffusion and publicity, so that you do not communicate does not exist. So good work. And we also wish Mr. Llombart a good job and a good action in the months ahead and the years ahead. Thank you very much and good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.99.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia, Mr. Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.100.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I would like to begin my first intervention in the Parliament of Catalonia by reminding you that today I am here because of the repression and because the State wanted to interfere in the past elections disabling former Councillor Bernat Sole, the first mayor disabling for October 1, to let vote, to let, in short, what today makes everyone here: vote. Despite his willingness to curb independence, he first took fifty-two per cent of votes, placing the independence of the left at the head of the country, and with the possibility of ambitiously shaking Republican policies, as Councillor Bernat did in the last parliamentary term. And we will not fail in the project of settling independence. And we'll do it all because this is a project with a lot of people behind it. There'll always be people in the back. Dear Bernat, I hope to be, however difficult it will be, in all your senses. [[Greetings.]] Getting into the young man's body, we can't do anything but add to the punch, and we're pleased that they recognize the pocket on the part of the public communication media, which, once more and despite all the interbanks, have been able to maintain their phone book of news informants of interest to the citizenry. Therefore, our group cannot do anything but vote in favour of it. For what it does at point 2, we will also vote in favour, as we understand that there will be no problem in following the compromise of completing with everything that establishes the legal regime of the committee of institutional advertising campaigns. Moreover, of course, on November 25, 2020, we were already able to convey the complaints to the Secretary of Diffusion in his parliamentary office. With respect to points 4 and 5 we want and value positively that we have reached an agreement with the transaction respect each point and, therefore, we will vote in favour. In point 5 we will also vote in favour, in agreement to define the criteria for the distribution and resources of the communication media in relation to dissemination and institutional advertising. But leave me, please, make an incision. And speaking of accords, it is essential to surround ourselves in one of the most urgent and central themes in this beginning of the legislature: the renewal of the governing council of the corporation. We know that it involves all of us – all of us, honourable Member – as they are needed – and you know it – two thirds of Parliament. And here we put them another time to you, members of the Socialist Party, and also to the company of Juntes and the rest of political formations that share the democratic values. It's a phonetic rep and it's an ingenious rep that we have ahead of us, a rep that's also motivated by the paradigm shift in audiovisual consumption that we've been watching in our homes for a long time, like with our children. And everyone knows that our children consume audiovisual content in a very different way than we do. We have a vital structure that needs change, investment, material, optimization, but above all – professionalization of the governing council. The public media in this country and their professionals are in a hurry; they are in a hurry to adapt to the 21st century. The Republican Left has it clear. We're all set. This country and its communication media need this Parliament to be at the height of the moment. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.101.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.102.0	Well, thank you very much. I think it's how sad it is to have to approve a young man who says things as obvious as hanging memos on the web page, completing with 2007 decrees – we're at 2021 – right? , and, therefore, what is recurrent; it passes with this, but it happens recurrently in many other aspects. And, therefore, this should make us think enough of what it is that we do, and above all the governments, whatever color they are, should make them think what they are doing or how they treat Parliament or the rest of the Members and Members. Publishing memoirs is from calaix, it's minimal. It is of the utmost importance if we want to facilitate citizen participation, follow-up; no longer for the Members, but for the citizens. You're the least of them. And, therefore, it is obvious that we will vote in favour of it, but to say that we are doing a little with some resignation and regretting that this one has to be..., or it has to be what we have to debate. Then, we understand that it is inevitable or that it should be something that you've been through a long time: that the criteria for how resources are shared by the communication media were public and clear and that certain party or political interests were not understood in time to distribute these resources. And, therefore, we hope to clarify the criteria and that they are public, bearing in mind that it is a transaction in which it has reached the groups of government, easy to understand why in a systematic way there are private communication means that account for the vast majority of the grant resources. That's to say, somehow we can get the whole thing out of the way because systematically the God Group is responsible for most subsidies. And here, although we do not like to judge or challenge people for their own..., or for their past deeds, it is obvious that when systematically who reprehenses the majority of media subsidies coming from the Secretary General of Diffusion is the Godó Group and is contracted by Secretary General of Diffusion a worker of the Godó Group, so alarms are awakened. That's why, as we all celebrate, it's about the criteria being public. From here we will see if you objectivated or subjectivized it at the time of distributing resources. We understand that you want to congratulate the media on the work done during the pandemic. We also want to congratulate those communication media that, before the back of the use of the Catalan language, continue to use the Catalan language as a tool to express themselves and spread the news. Well, we didn't agree to that. It's all right, we'll continue to celebrate and continue to congratulate those communication media that, despite the difficulties that exist, continue to communicate in catalá. And, finally, we didn't want to talk about the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation because we understood that it wasn't the subject, but the reference made by the Republican Left MP said that it didn't reassure us, but it alarmed us. Basically, you went to the Socialist Party and Juntes. Thank you. All right. That means we're going to do things a lot differently. Of course I do. We will continue to agree between layoffs, between the majority forces, as the tasks are shared with the board of directors; therefore, we will continue with a partisan board of directors that will not respond to the interests. Is that it? Let's hope not. And we hope that any process in this way will take into account professionals, industry experts, who are better acquainted with how communication media, audiovisual media work, and who should be the leaders of this process of change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.103.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, it is clear that institutional advertising in Catalonia is another tool to achieve its two main objectives: rupturistic indoctrination and progressive social neo-engineering. Institutional advertising has become one more tool of separatists to buy wills, to thank the services provided to the media that laugh at them and to all those who publicly embrace the rupturist theses. Public media-funded communication has been key for separatists to understand favors and silences. The Generalitat has been more interested in being propagandist than communicative. She has been more interested in promoting division than in social cohesion. The institutional campaigns have followed the wake of TV3: manipulation, indoctrination, affronts to legality in order to create a mental framework contrary to the unity of Spain and to any public position that emerges from the poor consensus to which you all belong. The separatists know perfectly well that this is so. That is why in its policy of institutional dissemination transparency shines through its absence. They hide data, they violate the law, they laugh at this Parliament every time they want, and as nothing happens to them, since the media that should report the situation are hyper-subsidized, they will continue to do so without them. This, ladies and gentlemen, has a name: corruption. Are they not thus perverting freedom of the press? With the means watered by the public administrations, this freedom is replaced by blind and pretorian obedience to the government of turn, which is more typical of banana governments than Western democracies. The Generalitat corrupts, the media get corrupted, and so for years, installed in the machito of the putrefied Catalan oasis. Some of us know how the separatist mafia behaves and we denounce it with open faces. We break the omertà to the Catalan that is given in Catalonia, and that is why we are demonized, attacked and despised without a glance. From VOX we will not endorse this silence to the Sicilian that prohibits altering the immoral and criminal activities of the mafia. We will continue to denounce that while thousands of Catalans are in the queues of hunger – poverty spreads across Catalonia – you spend more than 30_million a year buying the will of the media with the excuse of institutional campaigns. Members, it is a shame that members of the opposition do not know how much they have allocated in 2019 and 2020 to this strategy of paniaguar to yellow-banded friends. It is a shame that we have to have a blind debate here on this issue because the Government of the Generalitat deliberately hides how much money it gives to Spain's great or its cousin. It is a shame that with more than 944,000 poor in Catalonia, the separatist government distributes more than 30_million a year on this issue – subsidies to promote Catalan apart, of course. We don't care if this disgusting waste does Junts or Esquerra. It's done from where it's done..., the economy... [[Pause.]] Excuse me. We don't care if this disgusting waste does it Junts or Esquerra, it's done from where it is..., the culture of nepotism is nepotism. The pestilent corruption that distills everything related to institutional communication in Catalonia has to be denounced, come from the department that comes. For these reasons, it is necessary to close TV3, the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and the CAC, and limit institutional campaigns to the minimum expression. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.105.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susana Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.106.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... so we, from In Comú Pode, consider that in reality institutional advertising, institutional campaigns, are a very important tool of awareness and training for citizens. Therefore, institutional advertising expenditure is a necessary expenditure. In fact, from our group many times we have asked that there are precisely more law dissemination campaigns, that we have laws that guarantee rights and that are not known for the majority of the citizenry, such as the Law 24/2015, such as the law of surrender content or access to the right to abortion, that it is precisely this late in speaking and that one of the problems is the misinformation that has a lot of citizenry and the lack of information about this right that is guaranteed in Catalonia. Institutional publicity is therefore necessary. Or, obviously, therefore, the different campaigns related to the security measures in front of the covid-19 or the vaccination campaign; therefore, we are not of the groups that demonize the expenditure in advertising. They are, of course, groups that join in denouncing the lack of transparency and the lack of formalization of the criteria that govern at the time of deciding what campaigns and what means these resources are. A tool that is necessary to make political and to advance in the guarantee of rights, but that is under the shadow of the eternal suspicion that it is used arbitrarily and with partisan interests in function of the greater or lesser political affinity that the government can hold back with a determined medium. So, it's dangerous and it's worrying that a tool that's useful for the citizenry, and that's more useful also to strengthen, to strengthen the communication media in Catalonia just in this task that they also have of public information service, is under suspicion. There are different laws that talk about how it should be and how it should be institutional advertising. It is regulated by a state law, 29/2005, by a Catalan law, which is 18/2000, that all two undercut the obligation to disconnect the public opinion from the true and neutral information about their public policies; that this publicity and institutional communication must be at the service of the needs and interests of the citizenry. In fact, the 29/2005 explicitly prohibits the campaigns from having as their aim to raise the government's pocket and serve the Administration, instead of serving the citizenry. And the Catalan law in concrete terms, moreover, states that advertising contracts must be awarded according to objective criteria that guarantee free competition and equality, and that they must be awarded according to criteria of social implementation and dissemination of the corresponding information media, and with a special consideration for local and local communication media. That's what you read. Therefore, they do not go into detailing concrete aspects. This, of course, depends on the advice you have in charge of the implementation of this policy, but what we find is that we have a permanent suspicion and a permanent mistrust of citizens and political groups, but it is that even of the same communication means, in which are the criteria used at the time of spending these resources on institutional advertising. Some resources that, in addition, compared to the retail period that we come from in some services is one of the resources that came forward and that, curiously, 2018 had a lot of resources, much more than it had ever had in the retail chain and reached 32_million. We insist that surely these resources were necessary to spend them. We trust the criteria of the Government. What continues to cause disconcert and mistrust is the lack of public and objective criteria at the time of allocating these resources. The constant suspicion that there are party interests, why certain groups – and it has already been commented, the Godó Group in concrete –, with an abysmal difference respecting the rest, have much more resources. So, it's about the criteria being the number of voters, the impact it has on the citizenry. There are other media that receive resources, that do not respond to these levels of audience. So, here they play different components. We believe that data should be made public, that we don't know what was going on in 2019 and 2020, that we won't know what was going on in 2029..., 21 – I'm sorry – and we won't know when we'll know, that there's a lot of hiding, that there's not a council meeting, that you haven't made clear in the criteria, that the memory of 2018 has already raised a lot of tension and that we're following a period of obscurantism with the criteria that govern advertising and institutional communication. We'll give support to the young man, because it's like... very basic things. We understand that the governing groups will also do so, because it is so basic and so much so that we would not understand that there is no support for all the groups in this chamber, because it is obvious that it is quite basic. And I would also like to end by referring to what the deputy of the Republican Left said, even though it is not the subject of the young woman, which is the renewal of the council of the "body". And it is that, in fact, you have created here the will of a pact to three and to divide the falls between three, not of a model change and of an extensive participation and of broad consensus for the renewal of the body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.107.0	I, finally, have the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.108.0	Yes, thank you, President. We, from our group, will also support this motion, which seems to us to be a very basic, too basic motion. I think there are things you wouldn't have to ask for at this point. But when you have to ask, it is precisely because you are not complying with the commitments. Just a few weeks ago, we had the opportunity to talk to Councilwoman Alsina about the issues of transparency, because this government leaves a great deal to be desired on the issues of transparency. She told us this was going to change, but I put it in quarantine, as seen. For here it is asked that the missing memories, therefore, be published within a month; man, I believe that the 19th, if they gave it to us today..., because they have done it, or should have done it, if they had done the duties as it touches. But, well, I already insist that the issue of the government's opacity is a recurring thing and that there is no way. As long as we come here to ask for what and as long as it is approved today, we will see when we have these memories. The last one we have, which is 2018, because it already let us know what you use institutional advertising for and what you use it for. Mrs Segovia said that they agree with this kind of institutional publicity campaigns that serve to raise awareness among the population. Man, so abstract, so, so do we. The problem is what kind of information is being transferred through these so-called corporate advertising campaigns. That is where we obviously do not agree, because we already know that this is a colliery, first to go subsidizing the friends and related to the process, and then to go collapsing the mantras of nationalism. And that's how we've been for years and years and years. He said that this motion seems opportune not only for the change of department now, in this case, that this rather, therefore, obeys politics between Esquerra and Junts per Catalunya – this in the end always goes from the same: to see who distributes money here and who distributes it there – but I do say that, obviously, there are issues to highlight, such as the issue of lack of transparency, such as the issue of criteria. We don't know what criteria these... well, this distribution is carried out, and therefore we want to know. We also want to know the specific amounts. Well, I insist we're talking about an institutional campaign game of a lot of money, up to 32 million euros. In addition, it was also said by the Member who preceded me, here there are cuts everywhere in basic services and, however, for campaigns of institutional advertising, for this we see that the money is left. Well, well, we want to know, at least, how it is being spent, where it is being spent, and who it is being spent on, because if we look at the last memory, which we have of 2018, what a coincidence that always favored certain editorial groups, certain media, without any justification and, moreover, with a clear ideological bias. It is therefore also appropriate for us to ask for clarification of the whole subject of the requirements. And I do not want to forget either to talk about the weaves that the government has brought to the forefront of the process, using precisely institutional advertising. And I think everyone will remember that surreal scene, at trial, with Mr. Burriel, right? , that good Samaritan – you understand the irony – because, of course, he forgave them, as he told us in the trial, eighty_ thousand_euros for an institutional advertising campaign precisely related to the registration of Catalans abroad. Or, for example, announcements also from El Punt Avui who, according to them in the trial, published them unselfishly. Of course, there is a generosity... here you have a tremendous luck with the generosity of others. But, of course, it seems that this generosity is mutual, because, look, Mr Burriel, the one who forgave them eighty_ thousand_euros, then turns out to have invoiced 8,2_million_euros in the next two years. I mean, Mr. Burriel multiplied the profit by a hundred in contracts that you gave them to right hand and sinister. What a coincidence! - What a coincidence! Of course, Mr Burriel is not only a crack in generosity, but he seems to be also a crack in bidding. Of course, here is a whip mounted and the truth is that it is quite embarrassing and therefore we want transparency, we want to know, we want to be able to know the requirements and what you are spending the money on. I'm done with these thirty seconds that I'm still referring, too, to the new secretary of Diffusion, Mr Llombart, who has some tweets that let you be. It has recently done some on the Euro Cup. He told us: « Spain is winning two to zero and has not scored any Spanish. Well, you can see that in addition to being a football forumful, it is also a forumful of radical nationalism. Little good thing we can wait from there. We'll be on our way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.109.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.110.0	Thank you, President. Very quick. I've seen him, Mrs. Grau, very outraged here at the Faristol, huh? – very outraged – but, miri, who posed the theme on the table, this theme, followed the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress and, therefore, who forced us to talk about this theme, which seems to worry both Ciutadans and some other group, we are. Miri, and who denounced the lack of transparency through this young man? So we are. Who has denounced that there are no memoirs that should be there because they force it, force us to do so? Ours. Who asked, too, neutrality not only to the secretary of Diffusion, but to the government? So do we with this young man. And who will force a new brand to be adopted that is present and that there are clear criteria to be presented to the Commission? Ours. And, therefore, this is the useful work that we try to do the Socialists and Units to move forward, that comes up with things that help to improve. And you said, "No, we have made some fund statements that have not been accepted. I want to comment on them, so let's understand if it's true. When we said that you had to comply with the decree, you said: "Well, the Parliament denounces the failure. We say the decree is complete. We say that it is published on the web, and you said: "In compliment of what you say such, that it is published on the web. Well, in two-month accounts one, and delete the advisory board. Vaja, of fonds– of fonds– absolutely, his exams. Miri, listen'm, no. We have put forward an inquiry because we believe that this is an important issue, because it has to be done – and I agree with Mrs Segovia – institutional information because the citizens are informed, they know what the Government of the Generality is doing, but it has to be made transparent and professional. And that, Mr. Giró, I told you at the inquiry. Let's hope that you and the Secretary of Diffusion will address these petitions that we are doing, these suggestions, which I hope today will be approved with this young man. It is important that there is transparency, that there are clear criteria and that no doubt about the work that can be done by the Government of the Generality, which should be the Government of all. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.111.0	Yes, Mrs. Grau? [[Anna Grau Arias intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, no, I don't feel it. Why ask me the word? [[Anna Grau Arias intervenes without using the microphone.]] Mrs. Grau, you used your word, then you did the deputy, and we said we weren't going into a chain of allusions. It is normal that if you do an intervention, then you can be read in the contents of what you say. So I don't give him the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.112.0	You deny me the word for allusions, do you understand?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.113.0	No, I don't deny the word for allusions. I'll explain when you approach the word for allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.114.0	It's just that I'd like to make a point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.115.0	...and now he's not around you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.116.0	...because he made a date... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the deputy and she continued to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.117.0	You don't have the word. Thank you. Is there a separate petition for a vote? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Grau, you don't have the word, so you don't hear it. I won't give him the word because you don't have it. Thank you. I ask if there is any spokesman who wants to ask for a separate vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.118.0	Point 1
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.119.0	Point 1. Mr. Gallego?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.120.0	Two, three and five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.121.0	Two, three and five, all right. So, let's start the vote on point 1. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved with 115 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved with 118 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3 was approved with 129 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4 was approved by 118 votes to 11, with 6 abstentions. And finally, we're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5 was approved with 129 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the unemployment plan in active employment policies to overcome the impact of the covid-19]] [[302-00021/13]] Let's get to the twenty-five point of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into the shoc plan in active employment policies to overcome the impact of the covid. It is presented for the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, and to expose it has the word of Mr Jordi Albert. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.122.0	Come on, let's do it. Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, Workers and Workers of Parliament... Company David Cid, it is not the complaint of the long-running young man, that for once I can make one, we must take advantage of it. So we're going precisely to talk about the content of the motion, a motion that we've divided into three blocks. The first block is to close precisely the exit, the proposal that we from the Republican Left to emerge from this health crisis, economic crisis..., a crisis of social character derived from the covid and, therefore, with a proposal of transformation, a proposal of changes based on a social look and based on a social look. And here, for example..., and I also take the opportunity to announce a part of what I will say in the second intervention, which is, on the subject of the reviews, to accept the message presented to us by the Comú Pode Group, where we wanted to incorporate the question of internal democracy into companies, and we wanted to include, in our own firm supporters, therefore, logically we wanted to incorporate, in this connection, a direct relationship between the social part, between representatives of the workers and the workers and also the decision-making by the business directorates. Therefore, in this point we have also incorporated this theme of In Comú Pode. A second block on which we ask the Government of the Generality a series of questions; among others, we ask the Government of the Generality that, in the matter of the SOC, therefore, there is this policy of transformation and, therefore, transform the SOC so that it has this integral slope, that it has a complete look, of the worker and, therefore, in this sense, encourage these necessary changes, of another band, of the SOC. Another question that we are also asking the Government of the Generality is to be able to deepen all the policies of occupation, and also, very important, major resources for the job inspection; job inspection that is essential in an economic model that wants to guarantee labor rights, and therefore a job inspection that needs as much reinforcement as possible. In this sense, also, a third block; a third block on request to the State, also, various questions. Among them, therefore, of course – they know who is talking to them, whenever they have the opportunity to say so, wherever they are, also from this Faristol... – the standard change, the repeal of labor reforms, which we are waiting for years and years ago – the 2010 labor reforms of 2012... – and, in essence, the return of administrative authority to the labor authority. And, therefore, that we can influence labor conflict before we already have it damunto the table in the form of expedient. Also, changing the status of the workers. We have had a lot of labor disputes in our country arising from subcontracting, and the later Commission of Enterprise and Work came to compare Nissan workers and workers who are subcontracted to Nissan companies, who put on the table the gravity and precariousness that generate subcontracting. In this sense, changing the status of the workers. Our proposal is clear with respect to Articles 42, 43 and also with respect to Article 51, which was already referred to earlier with the repeal of labour reforms. Another important element: the Catalan minimum wage of reference. A minimum wage that must be, as well well pointed out with a mention of In Comú Podemos, the sixty_per_cent of the average wage already in Catalonia. And, therefore, there are also the normal changes so that we can apply it here to Catalonia, and that we can also make it possible. On the other hand, another important, transcendental petition, which was also voted in the previous parliamentary term in the relevant committee, which is the transfer of the management of SEPE's benefits and benefits to the SOC. We approved this in the past legislature and today, again, it has to be re-approved; it is transcendental. With regard to SOC, the Next Generation Foundations. It is also important that we guarantee this co-management and that we can also, on the one hand, arrange directly for the Government of Catalonia. And finally the tax dumping, which has also generated a certain controversy; a certain controversy in the line that our policy has to be much longer than Ayuso's policy, much longer than Madrid's policies, and a lot longer than dellective competition from taxation, because the competition has to be based on quality and on skills and quality at business level, which is what we have to offer, not on the basis of a redistributed taxation. And here when we talk about harmony, we already know what we mean, harmony no longer favors Catalonia, harmony is centralization, to which it favors the policies of the Aid Dretches in Madrid. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.123.0	He then has the word, to defend the papers presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.124.0	Well, thank Congressman Jordi Albert for his willingness to comment, talk and deal with some of the issues we have presented; that we have presented to a young man who is almost as long as ours, a little less, but who connects, say, five different points. I think he's talking about active employment policies, worker status, passive policies, Next Generation funds, and taxation, right? That's five points. And, therefore, here we have already addressed some questions. We have set up a first task, which we have seen taken over, at the initial declaration, where we place the issue of democracy in the company. Take advantage of..., it is not Mr. Ramon Tremosa, but it is possible to look, if possible, at the law of 84 of Sweden, when governing the Olov Palme, to hear what economic democracy means and what is behind it, and the importance of the participation of workers and workers, their representatives in the governance of enterprises, because it was seen in Sweden as this increased innovation, productivity and gross domestic product per capita in a few years. So, okay. I believe that the motion before us places the import of the Occupational Service of Catalonia, or of the active policies of occupation, in order to face the difficult problem that we have in Catalonia, today, of the weather. And it puts it clearly. We have made some ideas that I believe will also help to give the importance they have, and, above all, the size of the plants; we need to strengthen the plants of the Occupational Service of Catalonia, in order to be able to bring forward the active policies of occupation that we need, which also go through an individualization of these active policies of occupation: guidance, information, training, but above all individually accompanied in the processes of mediation and specific strategies for those most vulnerable collectivities that have difficulties in accessing the labor market. And that means seedlings, and seedlings that the government will have to plant, that will have to increase and stabilize so that they can do these functions fully. We also agree with the young man: to reform the status of the workers, to counter the bad labor reforms that have been made. There is only one, which makes me especially excited, I say, that I like and particularly illusory, which is when I raise, the motion, the recovery of the competence of the Government of Catalonia from the prior administrative authorization to the dispatchers of employment regulations. And I particularly understand this, not just because I participated in the general wave against labour reform, but because I understand that this means that there is an explicit recognition of one of his governing partners, his party, hereus de Convergence Democrática de Catalunya, that they recognize that this madly expressly approved rule, or labour reform, precisely changed the threat presented by Convergence Democrática de Catalunya of renouncing a competition from Catalonia, which was the previous administrative authority. I like that today it is recognized that and that its governing partners agree that they have failed to do so by giving up a competence that allowed us to intervene in job regulation expeditions in favour of the weaker sector, which are the workers and the workers. Therefore, we voted in favour of this. Just as we have also placed, on the subject of interprofessional minimum wage, a morning, which I believe has accepted me, which is, in the accounts of putting the quantity, putting the concept, that this interprofessional minimum wage is the sixty percent of Catalonia's average wage. I think it makes it clearer and places it, say, more dynamically. We have been pleased, therefore, that, contrary to the logic, we say, in this position, in this matter and in this transaction that we have done, that in the former Member of Parliament you voted in favour of the minimum wage being already applied, as a condition, on the part of the actions that the Government has to lead as a public contractor. But, well, it can't have everything in this world, but we understand, say, that the transaction is acceptable. Now, there are two aspects of the motion that we will not vote on, that we will abstain from: one is the f and the other is g. iii – iii –..., you have numbers for the next time, because iii is a little bit like that, right? On the subject of f, which is talking about passive policies of occupation, we will vote..., we will abstain for a topic of opportunity and for a topic of need. Today there is no need for this transfer, because today workers in today's situation do not have a problem with the performance function when they are out of work. And by chance: today we need to strengthen the active employment policies, this unemployment plan, today we need to make it work well where we are competent, which is the Occupational Service of Catalonia, which has some malfunctions; we make every effort in this. Opportunity and need, that's why we'll abstain. And the other is the theme of the foundations..., territorializing the foundations Next Generation. We believe that it is not a problem of territorialization, it is a problem... and less so, of doing so in a percentage way with all and each of the strategic lines that can be addressed. There are strategies that can relate to the population, but others, possibly the most industrialists or investors, have to relate to the motor skills that Catalonia has, and that, therefore, possibly what we would have to claim is not the proportion, but what we actually corresponded to for the ability to lead the investments. Therefore, we will also abstain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.125.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Deputy Joan Canadell has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.126.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, this young man has a very important challenge, which is to solve a very important problem for this country, which is the city, which is the occupation, and which before the pandemic was recognized as the main problem for Catalans, together with the relationship with the State. Now we're devoting a shoal, with a recognizable reversal, as it is said, but that doesn't guarantee for itself that we do things right and that we solve the problem. Therefore, what we need to do is to examine well who are the causes that lead us to keep up with what we have today and, therefore, on the basis of this analysis, who is the right program or programs to solve it and the right proposals. Before the pandemic, the sunset in Catalonia was almost eleven per cent, and the youth was over thirty per cent, or close to thirty per cent, but for another band, there was another difficult problem, and it was that businesses said they didn't find qualified personnel. Therefore, here we have a very important contrast. And, besides, every time it went worse, every time the companies told us it went worse. And, in fact, there was a lack of everything before the pandemic: welders were missing, construction specialists were missing, fusters, installers, fishers were missing, everything. Catalonia, however, has an economy similar to the state of Europe which is fully occupied. Therefore, our Government must work to achieve this full occupation; in this legislature, if possible, and, if not, at least to bring us as close to this full occupation as possible. Not only the Nordic countries, to which I refer, but also all Portugal. Portugal has a six and a half percent maturity when we have the twelve in Catalonia. But if you look at the map of the Portuguese border, it turns out that on the left of this map the weather is between the five and the set_per_cent. And on the right of this map, the autonomous communities around Portugal have between thirty and twenty-five_per_cent. This border to me reminds me of this scale: those of this song want to continue in a country with the seven_per_cent of atur; those of this song we want to be in an independence, which we call, which is that of Portugal, in order to get to have a six_per_cent of atur. Well, said that, let me now give you some data that you're relevant to me. The climate questions that have taken place in the chamber since 2013 tell us, as I said before, that one of the factors limiting the good market rate is precisely the lack of qualified staff. In fact, in 2013, he told us that the six_per_cent of the companies found this problem; in 2015, the thirteen_per_cent; in 2017, the twenty_per_cent, and in 2019, the twenty-i-four_per_cent. It is to say, that today, or just before the pandemic, one_of_each_four companies told us that their problem to grow up was not to find qualified personal. In fact, another consultation that took place in 2019, in November, told us that a seventy-nine_per_cent of autonomies and entrepreneurs found it difficult to find qualified personnel. In fact, forty-four_per_cent said they didn't find it, but with difficulty and thirty-five_per_per_cent said they didn't cover some places, some vacancies. I, this past week, a ManpowerGroup study that told us that sixty-four percent of businesses don't find the right job profiles– two_of_each_three companies. This is a drama: like the country, that we have a dozen_per_cent of youth and thirty-five_per_cent of youth and that two_of_each_three companies do not find qualified staff. Counselor Torrent, in this sense you have a very important challenge; you have the hands to solve this problem. In fact, Juntes bet to make a business and work advice, because it is the one who has the opportunity to make active policies and the opportunity to connect with entrepreneurs to solve these problems and to be able to move forward towards full employment. In fact, probably after independence, it's the biggest challenge this country has: to improve occupation. Because if we do, if we go to full occupation, independence will also have the full meaning for the collectible who do not feel identified nationally with the country. Catalans have always earned our lives working, and many immigrants have come to Catalonia for centuries just for this, to find work and future. So thank Deputy Albert for allowing us to do all the transactions and reviews we have proposed. Only point 2a bis, which is precisely in the idea of ensuring the plans to cover the demands of the sector. Also make the thought that we have included on the issue of the transformation of the SOC, which seems totally necessary to us. We did the sub-contracting, because the sub-contracting is not hurt per se; what we can avoid is that it serves to pre-characterize the working conditions of the workers. And we also wanted to make it clear that the minimum reference wage has to be based on the average wage, as the commons also say, and that in this country, in the next few years, we can even go to reference wages, minimum wages, higher than the 1.240_euro we have now. In fact, here there is also another border: the one that divides North and South Catalonia. In Northern Catalonia, the minimum interprofessional wage is 1.540 euros; in Southern Catalonia, 950 euros. That is why we also want a border between Catalonia and the rest of the State, to have a much higher minimum wage and a better standard of living for our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.127.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.128.0	Thank you, President. Before, in the commons' room, we talked about a very long room, with a lot of fears. The first deputy to express it was the deputy of the Republican Left. And now we have a very long Republican Left movement, with a lot of fears. Well, things happen. In fact, it is not the first contradiction they expressed, because, for one thing, they accept the slogan of the commons on minimum wages, but two motions voted against it. And, in fact, Junts' deputy also said he was celebrating this point, but two motions also voted against it. Therefore, I do not know exactly what is the validity for the Government, whether the one they voted against or the one they voted in favour. Beyond that, right here? , they're talking..., the deputy of the commons, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego, was talking about the issue of business democracy. I would say that I would celebrate that a government party accepted a theme that you talked about the collective ownership of production media. The democracy of the enterprise I believe is still far enough from this and to advance in the eradication of inequalities between classes. But it doesn't matter. Continuing. Thank you to the honourable Member for having accepted some of the issues in relation to how we should also encourage employment in this country, with this manna that will fall from the one that is the Next Generation Foundation, and, therefore, how we should manage, how social agents should be involved, how governance should really be involved and how key values such as social justice, global justice, economic justice, and that, therefore, we are really moving towards the transformation of the economic model that we talked about earlier through money that, in the background, will be insufficient for the challenge that we have if we really want to transform the economic model and the production model of this country. Unfortunately, the thought that is already used in this debate and that we think it's important that we put in the center... because you were talking about Nissan subcontractors and it's the opposite that exists. In other words, it is not so much about changing the status of workers because the labor rights of subcontracted workers are still better, but it is about analyzing why subcontracting exists and if subcontracting is necessary. Why does a company subcontract another company for essential tasks of which it has as its mission? So, obviously, to precaritize. Therefore, this subcontracting should not exist. Subcontracting must be a point of order, not a structural question. We, therefore, argued that the status of the workers needed to be changed to prohibit subcontracting – we have stayed in a medium term. To go through with it. There is still a third bloc that we will vote in favour of, which is the third bloc in relation to which the Government of the State is indispensable. But we get some doubts, if we look at the first part and then we look at the third block, which you have to see what we read here or how we move here, but then we negotiate in the State. And that's what you see..., and you have a clear example, that's what happened here yesterday and what happened yesterday in Congress, that's: here we move in the will to stabilize the internals, but in Madrid it's a vote and it's a negotiation of a decree that makes the internals precarious, because it doesn't guarantee what the media says that it guarantees, beyond what we think is an agreement with the Government of the State, that it talks about the stability of those that carry more than two years and that there are no oppositions. But this, for the time being, is not what was approved yesterday. So, for the time being, the interns are more precarious. We had the opportunity, yesterday, to legislate for this and exercise sovereignty here, and now they have put a stop to it through a decree, which we will already see as progress and if it really will allow us to make here the debate that we understand is indispensable and to approve what is indispensable, or, as always, what Congress legislates is less progressive, less progressive and, therefore, limits the rights here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.129.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialists and Units for Progress Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.130.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs..., counselor, who now doesn't see him, but we have him there, we have him in the middle hiding among MPs. I suppose he wants to remember a few moments ago, when he was on the higher bench. I never get used to my intervention, I get used to going in front of the tent, but I think I deserve it today, and they'll let me do it. First of all, because today my town of Sabadell has been murdered by a woman, with a brutal masculist crime, and I think it is also a waste in this Parliament to put it to manifest. Because Sabadell is in pain today and will be two more days. And, second of all, because today I couldn't talk about this house without remembering the seventy-seven companies and companies that died in Utoya Island a couple of years ago, murdered for the extreme right. I think it's a waste that today the people who thought like us, like the socialist bench, the young people who were one day making some campaigns sharing debates and reflections, as I did a few years ago, the young people who went military in a political party, they went out on an island and brutally murdered themselves. And I think today, that for years now, you have to remember that... [[Greetings.]] I think a lot of us can never forget that day. I think we should never be able to forget that day. We always have to remember what's going to happen. And a strong hug to the Norwegian company, which today are also hurtful on this tragic anniversary of two years. Getting to the police station. To thank the Republican Left, to his spokesman in this case, and especially to Councillor Torrent, also, who puts black on white which is his model of active policies of occupation. And they'll allow me, then, to lead me to the government, too, because she's a government man, with whom, obviously, we know who she's from, right? Deputy Jordi Albert, animated for the government, wanted to take a step towards the councillor, in this case, didn't he? But the counselor didn't just meet, but in this case, so he was absolutely unable to say anything new, something substantial, something new in those fifteen minutes of appearance that he could have held in this Parliament. And that's what we're already adding to your appearance at the committee, to asking girls for our group in this chamber, and also to their public appearances. And we're still unable to know what you want to do to the head of the Treball office. And that could be worrying? Well, the socialists say that, don't they? It's a private opinion. But we've been able, these days, to comment on it with the sector involved, and it seems to me that it's a concern that has spread to other sectors, and so, obviously, we're worried about what it is that you want to do to Labour. Because they see the shock plan that you announced and the motion that you propose to us today, we have some doubts. A plate of rock that was announced as a history – and before here they also remembered it, didn't they? I suppose it's historical because the proposals that come back to it are, some of them, quite old in terms of their proposal. And I explain to myself: to improve wrongly and rightly the contract is nothing new; it's very old, actually, isn't it? And, moreover, this is done in a context in which Europe is betting on profound, real transformations in the economy that accompany a different growth, that accompany a different intervention to what had been done in the past. And what are we doing here? Bonuses.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We're not innovative people or anything. Do you think that a long-term stop with a basic formation will come out of the twilight with a bonus? Do they really believe that? I don't think anyone's fooling us if we say this isn't going to work. To this end, an administration that accompanied him, a formation to find a new job in a new sector. And that's why we need to set aside a real system of training, qualification, professional accreditation, a personalized follow-up, to help the citizens who are in the process of finding a new job in a new sector. We wear it years ago in this Parliament. In fact, in this Parliament we have approved it many times. We can't have a consultant who fills his mouth talking about product model change, added value and innovation, and making an active policy of occupation that is the oldest we've ever seen: improve. In this, neither innovation nor added value nor any type of product model change. There won't be any kind of fair work transition with bonuses. I think we can already say that the first weeks of the councillor have been far from the expectations generated at an early stage, and today's motion, written obviously for the government, only reaffirms this perception. A young man before 445,800 in Catalonia, many of them of long duration, is dedicated to reciting the government's bonds without taking any compromises or bringing anything new. The approval or renewal of this young man today will not mean any change for thousands of people today who need strong action from their government – chief. And it's sad to recognize him in this Parliament, but that's it. Today we could have a chance for the government to demonstrate its commitment to amending laws that depend on this Parliament, such as, for example, the SOC law, such as, for example, the FP law, basic to show a firm competence in which we want to address, which is an active policy of occupation. We have not done this; we have made a list of the purchase: exchanges of skills, European foundations, tax dumping..., along with active employment policies. In short, a motion made to give prominence to a counselor and not to the ups and downs, which we regret. And, finally, I wanted to make two very brief points. My first question goes to the CUP Group: what did they agree with the Republican leftovers one day, by agreement of the government, where did they stay? The legal mark that they had to make apart, where did they stay? They're sticking to the legal mark, obviously, that's right now. And lastly, a doubt: the money they want to spend on the rock plan, do they really have it? Do they have any presuppositions? Because I have a reasonable doubt that this is not so. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.131.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.132.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. When you read this motion, you could sum it up into four concepts, right? : so, a lot of hollow words, a lot of public interventionism, a lot of plaramic proposals, very much oriented towards moving forward in their separatist process rather than solving the problem of unemployment, and that they care about what employers think, which are the ones who really create jobs in a modern economy. Therefore, this motion, if adopted, would achieve exactly the opposite of what it pursues: it would destroy more employment and make the situation even more difficult; it would aggravate the worrying employment and economic situation of Catalonia. Let's put this motion in context. To our shame, we are on the podium of the most covid European regions, their negligence and irresponsibility to health make recovery even more difficult. Aragonès, Argimon and his companions have again charged the tourist season, as we denounced yesterday, so important for Catalonia. Two. We are the autonomous community with the most regulatory fiscal pressure. Do not be surprised, therefore, that economic operators, especially companies, as little as they can, are fleeing from here. Three. Separatism, at last, is guilty that 4,500 companies have left here since 2017. Thus it is impossible to create employment. Separatism, legal instability and employment are antonyms, they are a contradiction in their terms. They continue to play as children to the construction of their dream republic and that is precisely the last thing companies want. Every time you say 'we'll get a company out of here again. This is not the way. And with this panorama, does it really surprise you that there are 445,000 people standing in Catalonia? Ninety thousand at ERTE? Are you surprised that we are leaders in paying suspensions at the Spanish level? Does it surprise you that unemployment falls more in the rest of Spain than in Catalonia? Does it surprise you that Catalonia has been growing below the Spanish average for four consecutive years? Do you think all this is by chance? Therefore, you are not legitimized to give economic lessons with the figures in hand. You may be very good at indoctrination, propaganda, but as managers of the economy you are a disaster with legs. They're a management meme. The numbers sing. Workers are already realizing that they cannot trust their proposals. And one takes and reads the motion and says: "Well, let's see what they bring us. He says: "Well, we're going to fill this with labour inspectors, we're going to take away all the powers from the Spanish government and I'm going to keep them, because I'm going to do better because I'm better from the anthropological and genetic point of view, aren't I? , we manage the SOC on our own and then it will work better. We're going to force Catalan entrepreneurs, the owner of a bakery, a bar, a hardware store, etc., to pay 1,240_euros a month of minimum wage to one of their workers – I don't know if they've asked these gentlemen if they really can, they're in these circumstances to be able to do it – « and, finally, we're going to force the Madridns to pay more. This is one of the great proposals. It's like asking for two penalties on the rival when you see you're losing. But it's a little unfortunate, isn't it? That is to say, « we are going to ask the Spanish Government to crush Madrid because it is doing very well and they are growing more than us and they have taken our economic leadership in terms of GDP. Anyway, really, really... well, a few propositions... These are very primary proposals, aren't they? So, anyway, I don't know, I think what they have to do is, from the start, ask to end the process. This breaking up Spain in two really doesn't like companies. Put yourself on the important side: reduce debt, reduce the public deficit, and now that you like Europe so much, don't you? , which said these days that the judgments and so on, pay heed to Europe. What did Europe say? That the SOC does not work – that the SOC does not work –; that one has to make a new one; that it does wrong; that they have to close it; they have to return the competences to the Government of Spain. That's what Europe says, huh? Lower taxes. In short, we ask you to go down to Earth, stop living in dreams made in Waterloo, stop manoeuvring the economy to please the CUP's anti-systems and stop looking for scapegoats, really. In other words, internalize the problems, do not externalize the responsibilities, do not always seek evil beyond the borders, let's say, of Catalonia. Truly, what they have to do is to mature; to mature because, of course, this is the only way to solve the issue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.133.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Joan García, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.134.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... so I will also begin expressing my sorrow for the murder of a woman to my town in Sabadell. I think Mr. Gibert expressed it and I'm in it. It is painful that people of your city, but any woman of the world, in fact, must die in these circumstances. So, enough masculinistic crimes. And, saying that, I think it's possibly the most important thing that I can express in this place and in this... so to speak, in this debate that we have today, I will begin. Mr. Albert, I think you tried. He tries to add his degree of smile because he can develop these active employment policies, but obviously, being part of the parties that support the government, so it's complicated. I know him a little, maybe not as well as other Members, but I know he's trying, right? He tries, but what we see here – and I will start with the very structure of the movement – is complicated. Basically, because I've fixed myself... there are two very clear parts in this young man. But there is a first part, which is obviously flattering, which is when a young man starts a said "insists the Government of the Generality – and I am talking about point 2, in this case –" to continue. There's nothing more conservative than going on. In fact, follow him, we can't change anything if we continue to fend. Or, this verb, in fact, already determines the whole block that you're going to see, that we can now..., we can comment on it, because, in fact, there are things that you expose..., in some things we may agree, but we don't have to continue doing the same, we have to change things. "Change versus" continue. I believe that, in this case, our proposal would be to try to change things because we are not working. We have a 12,9_per_cent of the time. GDP, obviously, for a lot of reasons, but also because we are not working well, so, there has been a reduction of four_per_cent– are data of the Idescat directly – thirty-five_per_cent of youth attaturity – it has already been said here. Therefore, we are in a complex situation. At the first point, obviously, here we will vote yes. We also reaffirm ourselves in the compromise to get out of this social, health and economic crisis; therefore, we can add, including, also, this will to promote democracy to the business. I... I'd like to know what they mean first. But well, yes, a concept... Clearly, using the word democracy, in the end a difficult one that can, therefore, express itself against, right? , because, of course, if we apply it to everything, we all believe it, as the value, in democracy, as if we are talking about equality or social justice. Well, it's concepts, but I'd like to hear it. Well, we'll vote for it. To the young man..., to point 2 of the young man, for this reason I have said, to use the verb "continue and not to be too ambitious, we will abstain – we will abstain. We don't think the one who speaks here is... say, is incorrect. I believe that there are actions that can be voted on, or with the least we can't oppose, but obviously they're not ambitious, they're not what we would support. And then, we have the second part, which is what we also need to see... "I keep doing the same, I don't change anything, I have problems, and what happens? The change, where do I see it? No, no, there's no change. What's going on is that on the other side of the Ebre is where all the problem that Catalonia has is. And, therefore, I dedicate myself to saying everything the State Government should do. That, of course, what they could do is go to Congress and say it there, do politics there. I know they have, there, so, a minority, like the one we have right now. But, obviously, it's there, at his national sovereignty where they can do all this and this work. It's also true that sometimes you vote for one thing there, and here you vote for another, as it happened with the people there yesterday. But this problem that you have, that we do not have because we vote the same, including with temporary changes. In November we vote for one thing... That's what the PSC does, too; in fact, it's the PSC that does, but you here have also had this willingness to give support, not to give support to the Congress. So I think we should bring all these proposals to Congress and work them there. I couldn't go on, Mr. Albert. We'll keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.135.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.136.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, this is a sheet motion, isn't it? , with a lot of points. The truth is, I'm surprised. I am surprised because moreover, of course, it turns out that the motion comes from Esquerra Republicana. So, it's a Republican Left motion that urges the government, which is formed by Republican Left. Come on, that you urge yourselves, and also, to continue doing something you say you already do. Of course, there's no waste of surrealism, this. Of course, this has always existed. This is usually called ‘introspection', or for believers, ‘conscientious examination. What happens, that you do that in privacy, you don't bring it here in the form of a motion. So, you've had a little bit of a surrealist, the subject, Mr. Albert. You talk about the exit from the economic and social and health crisis caused by the covid. But, of course, you have a large part of the responsibility for that social and economic crisis caused by the covid. It's just that today we knew that those restrictions that seemed to be temporary will be extended throughout the summer. The other day I heard Councilman Argimon admit that they had been wrong and, honestly, it's that I lay my hands on my head. What's going on, that we're on a constant... a trial and error strategy, to see how it's going? We allow festivals, then fifteen days later the contagions are fired and then the counselor says: "Well, we were wrong. Man, then, in whose hands are we? – Who are we in the hands of? You also have to assume that part of responsibility, because now it turns out that we will have restrictions throughout the summer and the summer season, so it's gone to waste. With everything that that entails and everything that that means, because here there are families really going very badly. We are going through this crisis and we are in worse circumstances than the rest of the autonomous communities. The data is on top of the table. There have been measures that have been imposed here in Catalonia that have been harmful and that, I insist, have served only to condemn many families to unemployment or to have to close their businesses, when, moreover, the figures of contagion were similar in other autonomous communities. I mean, here there's been some sort of false dichotomy between economics or health that's burst into their faces. There was no need to choose between health or economics, because we have examples in other autonomous communities that have not done so and that have come out better still. Well, here's restrictions all summer. What we have confirmed with the covid, therefore, is what we were already afraid of, that its only priority, that the only objective of the Government, therefore, is to continue to move towards a process, towards an imaginary republic, without solving the real problems. There is no republic, there are no state structures, beyond a public television that we already know what it is dedicated to. But what does exist are investments that go away, jobs that are destroyed, autonomous that do not know how to reach the end of the month or people who are suffering a lot of difficulties, I insist, and who have suffered, for example, the digital divide, so important, therefore, during this year of pandemic and with the confinement. So, you guys want to make a real occupation shock plan? Okay. Abandon the process, get to work. That is, what you have to do is to ensure a stable framework in which economic activity takes place, offering security guarantees to attract investment and create jobs. It is that there are already too many reasons not to invest in Catalonia, as well as not to do so in many other places, but what cannot be done is that the action, or rather the inaction of the government, is another obstacle. It's just that we're in worse shape here. That is, I insist: expectations, which are fundamental to the economy, are bad already in the rest of the state. But here, moreover, we have to add that we are still in a loop with propaganda, with agitation... It is that this does not help, does not help these prospects for the economy. You in this motion also demand more management capacity, such as services currently managed by SEPE, when you have already shown that you are incapable of managing your own skills. If they have made a disaster with aid, for example, to the self-employed. I mean, you want everything so you don't do anything. Not to mention the problems of the SOC. I landed here in 2015, we were already talking about the need to reform the SOC, etc. It's just that there's nowhere to take it– there's nowhere to take it. Then they also talk about occupation, but you, for example, do not lower taxes. Who is believed to create jobs? Large companies, not the public sector. What we have to do is attract those companies. How are you going to want to come here, first of all, with everything, I insist, the whole process, with the fatigue, with the waste of time, with the instability and legal uncertainty that we live here in Catalonia, if we have the highest taxes in all of Spain? How are you guys gonna want to come here? You said: "No, we are far from Mrs Ayuso's fiscal policy. Well, maybe that's the problem – maybe that's the problem. Try to change it, because there, you do have the right to decide, and you decide to have the highest taxes in the whole state. Start by lowering taxes and stop suffocating the Catalans and we'll probably get a little better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.137.0	And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.138.0	Well, let's do it, thank you, President. I'll be quick, huh? Esmens. In fact, all accepted from the Commu Group, accepted and traded and, therefore, I would like to thank very much, in this sense, the dialogue and the good agreement that we have had with the fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Gallego. Also accepted reviews for the Junts Group. I also want to thank Congressman Joan Canadell, who we have also been able to deal with, even three bands, to have a text with less points than we already had. So, we've made a real effort here. And also thank the Regnant Member of the CUP for her presentations. There were two of them. The first of them, Mrs Reguant, was an evidence. We had to accept it, it's part of the government agreement that we have signed Republican Left with the CUP. Therefore, it is also logically incorporated as a theme in our point. And the second, in change, we had other proposals respecting subcontracting, but here I remind you that there is a legislative proposal, that we also have pending and that I also encourage us to take this step together, in prayer, so that we can present it also in this Parliament and also forward it to Congress. And Congressman Pol Gibert has just presented a statement. I thought it would be a lot more ambition in his way of working the document. I see you're not. I see you've decided, so, well, just worry about Madrid, right? , and worry that Madrid does not come out in the text, worry that this fiscal harmonisation that you say ends up feeling a complete re-centralisation and that, in the end, it ends up empowering much more these policies that both Mrs Lorena Roldán defends from helplessness and that favors in the fiscal sphere, therefore, has decided to focus her efforts here, with which little room for manoeuvre has also left us. In any case, let's hope the young lady approves. Thanks and good profit now, at dinar time. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.139.0	Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.140.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...separated from points 2a, from 3 to 3.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.141.0	Second encore, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.142.0	No, 2 bis. It's that the number of this young man is for a master, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.143.0	2 bis. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.144.0	Then, from 3rd to 3rd.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.145.0	3.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.146.0	All points of 3.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.147.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.148.0	And then all the points of 3.g; that's say, four blocks, say so. Let's see if we can get out. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.149.0	Yes, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.150.0	The numbering of the motion... [[The timer laughs.]] We are calling for a separate vote on 3.f. and 3.g.iii.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.151.0	The 3rd and the 3rd. All right. [[Lorena Roldán Suárez asks to speak.]] Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.152.0	To finish, I would like to make it more difficult – thank you very much to Deputy Jordi Albert – for us to be serious: a first block, which would be point 1, 2a and 3.g, these for one band, and then another block, which would be 2a bis, 2.b, 2.e, 3.d and 3.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.153.0	See... [[Eulàlia Regant and care asks to speak.]] Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.154.0	Let's keep it complicated. Vote separate from point 2.a bis. So, here it's complicated a little, because it would be the 2nd, but the first 2nd, because there are two points, or so on, 2.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.155.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.156.0	Or this, and point 3.g.iv.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.157.0	The 3.g.iv, played and played. Yeah, 3.g.iv, all right. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's a little complicated, that. [[Joan García González asks to speak.]] Mr. Garcia, we were flying, adding some other ingredients.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.158.0	If I want to add the solution: maybe we have to vote separately and it's already there, right? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.159.0	[[The President]] - No, no, no, Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.160.0	No, he's asking for this. Well, at least I think if I tell you, I'll finish this and I'll save myself at least two or three minutes that we can get to dinar before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.161.0	Or else, they want to vote for it all, points and letters, all separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.162.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.163.0	We've been thirteen minutes before, voting on the previous one, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.164.0	Well, then, if you want... I'll tell you, if you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.165.0	No, no, I mean... see, let's try.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.166.0	Okay. So, for one thing, point two senser.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.167.0	The 2th all the way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.168.0	That it could add the 2 bis as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.169.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.170.0	And, on another side, we would vote on the third, b, c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.171.0	A, b, c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.172.0	f...........................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.173.0	f...........................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.174.0	I h.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.175.0	Is that
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.176.0	Yeah, there's a thing around here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.177.0	Oh, yeah, okay. I just don't see her anymore, I do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.178.0	The truth is that the numbering is not exactly very flattering – the truth. Anyway, I think... I don't know, you'll say, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.179.0	Yeah, I practically have all the marks, actually.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.180.0	Therefore, they ask that it is votes for everything separately. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.181.0	Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] No, no, So let's get started. Let's get down there. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved with 121 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 1 abstention. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. Point 2a_a was approved with 126 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. Fem now the 2nd encore. The vote begins. The point was approved with 118 votes in favour and 15 abstentions. Fem now on 2.b. The vote begins. The point was approved with 116 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're doing 2.c. The vote begins. The point was approved with 115 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're doing the 2.d point now. The vote begins. The 2.d_point was approved with 114 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're doing point two now. The vote begins. Point 2.e_is approved by 107 votes to 11, with 15 abstentions. We're doing point 2.e.e. The vote begins. The point was approved with 115 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for the 2 bis point. The vote begins. Point 2a was approved with 82 votes in favour, 12 against and 39 abstentions. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3.a_has been approved by 82 votes to 18, with 33 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.b. The vote begins. Point 3.b. has been approved with 82 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. The 3.c_point was approved by 82 votes to 18, with 33 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.d. The vote begins. The 3.d_point was approved by 89 votes to 11, with 33 abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. The point was approved with 89 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.f.i. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 74 votes to 51, with 8 abstentions. We're doing it at 3.F.I. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 74 votes to 51, with 8 abstentions. We're doing it at 3.F.I. The vote begins. Point 3.f.iii_is approved with 74 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 8 abstentions. Starting now point 3.f.iv. The vote begins. Point 3.f.iv. has been approved with 73 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 8 abstentions. And now we're doing point 3.f.v. The vote begins. The point was approved with 74 votes in favour, 51 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting for point 3.g.i. The vote begins. Point 3.g.i_is approved with 82 votes in favour, 11 against and 40 abstentions. We are now voting on point 3.g.ii. The vote begins. Point 3.g.ii_is approved with 82 votes in favour, 11 against and 40 abstentions. We're doing it at 3.g.i. The vote begins. The vote was adopted with 74 votes in favour, 11 against and 48 abstentions. We're voting now on point 3.g.iv. The vote begins. The vote was adopted with 71 votes in favour, 11 against and 50 abstentions. And finally, we vote at 3. The vote begins. The 3.h_point was approved with 115 votes in favour, 18 votes against. We suspend the session until two quarters of five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.182.0	How do we have the counselor present and the people to intervene, do we seem to start? [[Pause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the education model]] [[302-00020/13]] So let's go back to the twenty-six on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the model of education; presented for the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia. I, to expose it, has the word the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.183.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Government of the Generalitat were really committed to freedom, to the open mindset, to constructive progressism, to the plurality of people, to the people of Catalonia, I would not really be here today presenting this motion, because it would make no sense at all. It would be anachronistic, unnecessary, VOX's proposal, which urges the Government, the Government of the Generalitat, to guarantee educational freedom, to eliminate school indoctrination and to do everything possible to implement the parental pin, which is, in short, nothing more than a useful instrument to safeguard the freedom and rights of parents to choose the type of moral and religious education and training they want for their children, as dictated by common sense, natural law, constitutional order – article 27.3 –, the law of education – article 2.1.p and q – and article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Unfortunately, when freedom is threatened by totalitarian government policies that impose on people, starting with children, what can be thought and said, what is true and what is lies, it is necessary to react. These attitudes are not typical of a rule of law, but of totalitarian, communist or fascist regimes. I want to take advantage of this moment..., make a letter to solidarize me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia, with the people of Cuba, oppressed for sixty-two years, and with more anger than ever in recent days, by the communist dictatorship. Where communism is conquered, freedoms disappear and are replaced by misery, hunger, hatred and resentment. Brothers of Cuba: "Home and life. Some of the present ones persist in denying the evidence and repeat groaningly that the liberticide of the Department of Education is false, does not exist. So, as not too early in the morning, I will present you with some illustrative examples of the adoption that the Generality in general owes to the end. To promote premature hypersexualization – and prematurely, I would say, of minors – the Department of Education has deployed educational projects of affective education that begin in the three-year-olds. This is the case of Coeduca't, a program that imposes the ideology of genera, according to the premises of the LGTBI lobby, marginalizing absolutely any other anthropological focus. Coeduca 'tinclou a tool for the diagnosis that proposes the creation of specific organs in the school centers to work the perspective of genere. It's like, a control police force to implement the genery ideology. Per otro banda..., teachers, schools, families and parents' associations witness with fear the ideologization of their children's sexuality in those stages where a personality has not yet been formed, where full maturity has not been acquired, and can lead to irreversible traumatic decisions for children and adolescents. I'll give them a case. The British Keira Bell, last year filed a lawsuit against the clinic of the British national health system. At the age of sixteen, Keira underwent a sex change treatment that she repented of. The higher court ruled in its favour on the grounds that the child at the age of sixteen was not qualified to give informed consent. Well, freedom is not negotiated, there is no first and second-class freedom, no matter how much a government or political parties or political parties say or impose it, since then it would no longer be freedom. For this reason, we reject any educational plan in classrooms that aims to ideologicalize and indoctrinate minors and that is financed by public resources. In conclusion, the parental pin is a document containing the conformity or disconformity of the parents with regard to the participation of their children in all activities carried out by persons outside the educational institution. Because schools are to teach, not to indoctrinate. Parental pin does not question the work of teachers in the classroom, but strengthens their authority and prevents anyone with ideological interests from arrogating to the authority of teachers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.184.0	Next, she has the word to defend the papers presented by Mrs Eva Parera, on behalf of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.185.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I believe that we are all well aware that education can be an element of social change, but that it can also be an element of social control. And, therefore, we must be very curious about what education we give to our children and what teachings they enter into our children's classrooms. In fact, the education we have today, in the present, will mark the society we will have in the future. And today, sadly, what we have is under-funded education and at risk. We have contributed some ideas to the motion that presented VOX here today, in the sense of being able to guarantee the current model of concerted centres, including differentiated education. And I'll explain why. Education is not just teaching content. It's teaching content; it's forming citizens. And that's why it's basic, in our opinion, to guarantee free choice of centers, because, to greater freedom of teaching, there's a lower chance of adoption. Each centre, today, has its own ideari, which is what they present to the pair: they do the open day, we go to visit the centers and present us with an ideari close to the center. And couples can sort out the ideal that best suits the formation and value we want to pass on to our children, and that, in the end, they keep on being a continuation of the values that we pass on to them from home. And it is this idea that will mark, a little, that we want to teach our children. And it is obvious, at this point, that the parents have the ability to decide, apart from compulsory assignments, outside the compulsory education curriculum, what we want to teach our children, or what we want to explain to our children. And, therefore, it seems to us absolutely normal and quite common sense that the first parents know that they will enter the classrooms of our children, more than we already know, that they are compulsory subjects, that they will explain themselves and that they wonder whether we agree or disagree. If we keep the educational model sufficiently funded, this will already fit the ideals of that center. I already know that the center where I bring my daughter has a very marked idea and I know that any activity that is done in that center will contain among this idea that has the center. And, therefore, I already have a certain guarantee that there is no possibility here that I will teach my children something that I do not want them to teach, or that I think I am the one who should teach them, or that simply goes against what I think my daughter should learn. And I think that's basic. And that's why we insisted very much on presenting these reviews. Unfortunately, they haven't been accepted into this young man. But it seemed important to me to be able to include them, because one thing without the other seemed to me that I didn't have much sense. In the end, what this young man is asking for is a greater control of the peers of whom he explains, to our children, between the classrooms. And I think that marks the ideals of the school. And this school ideater can only guarantee that he is maintained and that we really have the freedom that the Constitution gives us to choose the center of our children, if this school is sufficiently funded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.186.0	Then, in order to fix her position, Mrs Esther Niubó has the words on behalf of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.187.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies. VOX presents us with a proposal on an educational model that looks like a ten of a pass we don't want to go back to. It offers us a retrograde view of society, of education, distrustful of educators, of educators, of their own education system, and, above all, that violates the children's right to education. And, in fact, when you talk about adoctrination, you see it quickly at the head of the Franco school, don't you? , that formation of the national spirit that defined Spain as a blessing from God, or that explained how to be a good submissive wife. Well, the education that is being shared in classrooms today is neither a partisan nor a sectarian education, it is an education that complements Article 27.2 of the Constitution, which has as its essence the full development of human personality in respect of the democratic principles of coexistence, the rights and freedom of speech. And it is surprising, frankly, that VOX is making this complaint of a supposed indoctrination, when there they govern, like Murcia, so they propose a shameful nationalist indoctrination, based on listening to the national anthem every day at the schools, putting the flag at each center, putting the king's photo in the classroom. Spanishizing the Batian children, must be. That is to say, the only one they claim is to politicize the schools and to strain the coexistence of the educational community. We have had a lot of debates in this Parliament on educational freedom, and what we can say is that the current legislation recognises the right to education, freedom – which is not right – of teaching, and freedom – which is not right – of families to choose educational projects, but not to veto educational contents, which are professionally worked for the directions or the clauses of different schools or institutes. So, the star proposition of VOX's educational model is precisely this, to pretend that parents can veto the attendance of their children at activities that are developed at educational centres in the lectural sphere. That's the parental pin. And to accept this proposal we would be depriving many children of the right to an education to develop their personality, as a guarantor of personal autonomy, and depriving them of a capacity and freedom of real and personal choice before the different faces of life. Parental pine could lead, therefore, masclist pairs to refuse to teach their children the principle of equality; homophobs pairs to prevent the promotion of the principle of tolerance; negationist pairs could prevent the teaching of history of the Holocaust, or of the Civil War, or vaccine pairs could veto the content of biology. But don't they realize that this involves an attack on chair freedom, on professionalism, but what is worse, a violation of the rights of minors to a comprehensive education? A veto that would collide with the constitutional right to education, that would contradict international treaties that Spain has ratified, such as the conviction on the rights of the child; the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the memorandum of the European Commission against Racism; the legislation on gender-based violence; the LGTBI legislation, or its own educational legislation. From the PSC we have defended that co-education and sexual and affective education are incorporated in classrooms and curricula from the early educational stages, precisely to promote the value of real equality, to work for the prevention of male violence and the elimination of gender stereotypes. It is not sex education that encourages the consumption of pornography. It is precisely an education in equality that should promote more egalitarian, more respectful and safer relationships, and help to prevent, for example, the consumption of pornography or prostitution. We also defend that the different educational centres can offer activities that transmit values related to the universal progress of humanity, that decrease objectives of United Nations such as sustainability, poverty, solidarity, equality... And this cannot be seen as an ideological interference, but as a right that can promote the development of freedom of thought, the critical ability of the student. I therefore cease to pervert the word 'freedom'. If your education model – I say it sincerely – is based on these points, on suppressing sexual education and parental pine, I would be worried about your voters and, if I were you, ashamed. We'll vote against the young man. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.188.0	At this point, and on behalf of the People's Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win, Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.189.0	Thank you, President. Well, look, I'll explain a story to you today, see if we can get excited. Look, there was a country where there were children who were blau and children who were pink. The children, of blau, obviously, were born to bad schools, and the children, of course, always in pink, were born to pink schools. It was also a country where there were schools for the rich and schools for the poor; obviously, because so the rich were richer and the poor were also poorer. It was a country where Opus Dei – certainly a destructive sect – freed himself for the school system with public money, obviously, and it was also a school system in which some clergymen could continue to gather students while the ecclesial institution looked to another band. All this, obviously, with public money. It was a school system in which national Catholicism was taught with conviction, in which racism, masculinism and sexism were taught; a school system in which even all colonial genocide was presented as a civil work. Well, we don't want this country or this school. Look, we don't want parents and the seas to sort out school, because we want everyone, absolutely every school, to be equal in resources, in quality and equal opportunities. We don't believe in the right to sort inequality, to sort segregation, to sort masculinism or to sort sexism. We want a school and a country based on humanistic, social, democratic and egalitarian values. We want a school that fosters knowledge and critical experience. A Catalan and free school that recognizes and values diversity on a daily basis. And that's why we defend a unique, public, universal and free school system, without private businesses that want to negotiate or organize religious sectarianisms. And, for all that, obviously, we'll vote not for your lady. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.190.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common We can, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.191.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs, look, I start by telling you that the Catalan education model we defend from our group is in the antipodes of what you would want to be the school of this country. What we want is a school based on the values of the common good, based on the values of freedom, equality, fraternity, the values, in short, of universal republicanism. We want a socially just school in opportunities for everyone. We want a school so that the children and young people of this country, come from the social class who come, come from the territories who come, follow ticks or follow ticks, have the same opportunities. Because, for us, education is progressing, and therefore, we think that we need to ensure that education follows a right to advance the country's joint venture and, therefore, the whole society. The freedom that we defend is based on respect, it is based on accepting everyone as they are, and obviously, it is respect for the plural society that we are and that we represent, where everyone can estimate freely, without dogmas and without prejudices. And you, on your own motion, speak of imposing ideology, and say and demand a supposed neutrality, but you have already been told by some fellow Members or Members who are ruling there, such as in Murcia, you are forcing to put down the flag, to sing the anthem, or to put the king's photo in the classroom, and this obviously remembers the preterite time of the national Catholicism of the Franco dictatorship; a fact that, obviously, is not neutral, a fact that is precisely all the contrary, because I assume that you in these territories will not give freedom to students to choose to sing the anthem or to put the photograph or not of the monarch in the classrooms. For us, freedom in education is not the false freedom of families that you say, because this type of freedom can only defend those families that have resources. The true freedom is that which guarantees equal opportunities for all children in Catalonia. And that's why we need to work on equity, because education is a social elevator again, and because it can't be planned just on demand, but they just need to see the whole picture, the whole map of the country's school needs. And freedom in education also means emotional education, an education that is more necessary than ever. And that's nothing to do with society's sexuality, just the opposite. Infants and young people, and especially adolescents, need and have the right to have a modern, advanced, stereotyped education; a verdant emotional education, to be free and to be able to sort and act as they like, one time they are still majors. Not to educate in this sense is to leave in the hands of dogmas, masculinism or homophobia, of harm, to all young people. And we can't afford that. You have the same masculinism as anti-maleism, when we all know that the lack of fairness in our society is also due to gender and/or gender reasons. We just need to remember the periodic murders of women in our country, or all the homophobic attacks that grow day after day. There's a demonstration here in Barcelona today. And we remembered it at the plenary, at the last plenary of the Parliament, declaring Catalonia free of LGBTI-phobia, motion or statement to which you were not added. And this – and this –, in addition, at a time when everyone, throughout society, has dismayed Samuel's death in Galicia. Look, we will not let the ideology of hatred enter the schools; we will not let populism and fascism enter the school system; we will continue to defend an education with fairness, an education and a democratic school, with historical memory, a school that defends true freedom, a transformative school, a green school, a feminist school, which makes us advance as a society and, obviously, a school in Catalan to ensure, also, that our language remains, also – apart, obviously, from the catalá, the castle, the English, and all the languages that exist in our country – a common and esteemed language for all. And, therefore, we will not support your young lady. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.192.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Marina Bravo has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.193.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor..., well, we can share some of the things that the VOX Group mentions in the explanatory statement, but under no circumstances can we subscribe to a motion that incurs such a counterproductive maximalism. With this motion, they do what in Catalan we call killing everything that is fat or, what is the same, taking the part for the whole. In our view, it raises the question in wrong terms, which, if they prosper, would throw down the possibility of reaching the minimum consensus that any civilized society that is valued needs to ensure coexistence and respect for the integrity of the human being. We do not give up the possibility of reaching that consensus, and therefore we cannot subscribe to what this motion proposes. I have to tell you, moreover, that, as far as the reality of our educational institutions is concerned, in the matter of public morality, there is such a tremendous message that we cannot but reject the motion and place the group that proposes it and everyone else to open an open political-social dialogue without prioritising the educational model. There is no doubt that parents have a preferential right to choose the education they want for their children according to their moral and religious convictions, but, unlike the proposing group, from Citizens we see very compatible defending the rights of parents and also the rights of children to have an education in democratic and constitutional values. We do not want to fall into the framework of the extremism that always brings us VOX. In Citizens, we are not going to give up on parents being able to decide on many aspects of their children's education, nor on children being able to access plural and sustained education in democratic values. There is an obligation on the public authorities to ensure education that respects the principles of freedom, equality, equity, respect for the democratic principle and fundamental freedoms and rights. In short, it is a matter of understanding that the State is not the enemy of society, but rather the society itself constituted as a political community. That is why it is up to us all to ensure that our educational system guarantees our children and young people an education that will enable them to develop their personality from the respect and civic commitment to the society to which they belong. That is why we will not support the proposal of the VOX Parliamentary Group and will vote 'no, 'no and' no to its parenting pin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.194.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr. Francesc Ten has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.195.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good late. To get rid of it, from the escó. From the escho, to say that we will vote against this anachronistic young man. And, if I may, I will use the right of subpoena and agaph to lend the same words that the Gallego deputy used in this Chamber to refer to another motion and I could also use them today: "I will tell you without hair in the tongue or warm cloths: this is a simplistic, false, aberrant, anti-democratic, demagogic, provocative and insulting motion. Quick: a political detritus, pure parliamentary basofia. And it's that this young man feels comfortable with a French-type school, bleached and modernized to the 21st century. And together we will vote against it because we are fully in favour of the Coeduca't program to the schools and, moreover, we ask that it be implemented in earnest, that it spread to all the educational centers, to all the schools, and that it spread to all the study plans of Catalonia. Together for Catalonia we believe that the encobert, VOX elitist, indoctrination, what it wants is that the school doesn't educate like everyone else. It was good for you to create inequalities, because... about the most vulnerable, it was good for you to create inequalities because they live from these inequalities. And that is to politicize and covertly manipulate the school that we, as you know, want inclusive, inclusive, non-secretive, democratic, safe, healthy and without this aberration of parental pines. And arguments in trobarian many. Comprehensive sexuality education is endorsed by WHO and UNESCO. Comprehensive sexuality education was linked to low levels of unintended embarrassment and less sexually transmitted diseases. If there is no sexual education in schools, what should we do, let – « the awakening of spring, which Frank Wedekind said in that play that Flotats did to Poliorama many years ago – sexual education in the hands of products like porn? Do you want this, VOX? And do they really see sex education as an opponent? I can understand that he sees independence as an adversary, for the unity of the homeland, for the defense of the corrupt monarchy, for the defense of King Philip VI and all that, but does sexual education see it as an enemy and an adversary? I'm done, President. Ovidi Montllor has a song that recommends them, « L'école de Ribera, very nice. I will say a couple of verses: "The slogan was Fatherhood; the answer, raise the arm. Or, in other ways, extreme right, xenophobic, totalitarianism, simplified language, populism and perhaps – perhaps – what would be the worst thing, I think, is to deceive voters. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.196.0	Yes, Mr. Gallego, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.197.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...direct. He's named me, even.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.198.0	I'm sorry, it's just that the honourable Member's argument is not an argument. He made an original, textual quote from a fragment of the daily sessions of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.199.0	He named me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.200.0	...you yourself in this Parliament. Therefore, I would not enter the right of allusion, because there has been a reproduction in the form of a citation, as many other Members have done on other occasions. Therefore, I give you the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra... [[Antonio Gallego Burgos asks to speak.]] Yeah? Excuse me? [[Antonio Gallego Burgos intervenes without using the microphone.]] Yeah, but it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.201.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...a manual of when we have the right to answer, we'd appreciate it, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.202.0	No, it's fine that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.203.0	... apparently, we never have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.204.0	I like that they read the Rules and therefore encourage them to continue to do so, but there are also indications that we give to the Board of Spokesmen, it is clear whether or not they enter a chain of allusions. I've specified it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.205.0	He quoted me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.206.0	... and I have consulted with the readers: when a citation is made as the authoritative element of a fragment, plus, expressed in this chamber and appearing in the diary of sessions – which has not even been translated, has not made a textual reproduction – there is no mention of allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.207.0	No, no, if that's okay with me, but if you send us a manual, we'll thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.208.0	So look, I can already learn and retain him in his memory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.209.0	I mean, less T-shirts and send us a manual.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.210.0	You don't have the word. You don't have the word, Mr. Congressman. I will now give the word to whom I correspond, which is, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, to Mrs Irene Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.211.0	Thank you, President. Your Honor, what you want is a retrograde school. They want a school that I carry like a merry-go-round in my eyes, a school that's covered with shame and a school full of prejudice, which, moreover, does not take responsibility or obligation to take care of the life and professional project of our children and young people. And so, ultimately, what you defend is a school that only serves for a pure and hard transmission of contents. We want a school where we fight male violence and sexual abuse, as well as a school that helps to advance towards a society with a gender perspective. We want an education system, inclusive and free of gender stereotypes, that addresses current and responsive issues, with the goal of protecting the most vulnerable. And in this way, as has been said, as has been called on some occasions, such as the Coeduca't program, a clear and strong bet, a firm step that will reduce the chances of suffering sexual abuse, because it is not limited solely to specific activities, but rather to integration into academic curricula. And here's where the difference is. And no, we will not give up, because we have the conviction that the incorporation of sexual and affective education into all compulsory education, into all educational centres, and, moreover, to do so in a cross-cutting way, is a necessary and essential tool. What's the matter with you guys? Have you ever visited a protection centre for minor victims of sexual abuse? They live in a parallel reality. They want to build a report in the imaginary collection that has nothing to do with the reality that is seen in the classrooms of our country. Do you want to leave sex education in the hands of social networks? Do you want to leave it in the hands of porn products? Is that what they want? We will not, of course, discuss the model of education with those who only have the purpose of suppressing it. Extreme right and education don't fit in the same sentence. And of all that you call indoctrination our equal opportunities, our equal opportunities, our education, our gender perspective. And yes, sexual and emotional education as well as tools to prevent male and sexist violence. And, in addition, we do this with a respectful look, which promotes trust, self-knowledge, the development of critical analysis and the cure, too, of the propriety. The school, the one we want, do cures, knowledge and values. And if all of this isn't the sound of anything, which really has the problem and really who the problem is..., it's just his. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.212.0	In order to pronounce on the papers, there is now the word Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.213.0	Well, thank you, President. Mrs. Parera, thank you for the papers. We have not been able to incorporate the 2nd and 3rd because we understand that they are object of another motion that we would present more forward, about, concretely, the three models that exist of educational centers. With regard to the first, we understand that the most appropriate area for affective-sexual education is the family. Here very strange things have been said, but well, where there is full privacy and really absolute freedom is where these issues have to be solved. In natural sciences and biology, it is generally explained what is established in the curriculum, and in that we have no inconvenience. With one minute I have now, a little bit more, I simply say to you: I have not been surprised by the reaction of most of you. And it didn't surprise me, because, of course, the truths offend. So, I'm just going to quote them to an authority in the world of philosophy, at the French Academy, socialist him, huh? Jean-François Revel died a little while ago, saying: "Ideology is a threefold dispensation: intellectual, practical and moral. On the intellectual dispensation, he said: "It consists in retaining only the facts favorable to the thesis that is held, even in inventing the totally and denying the others, omiting the, forgetting the ones, preventing them from being known. I also end up with a reflection that I leave you there in the air. What would you say if, in one of these talks at school, a Salafist magnet taught that women are inferior beings? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.214.0	Madam Bravo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.215.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...separated from point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.216.0	All right, so let's start the vote. Vote for point 2. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected with 14 votes in favour, 115 against and 6 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The motion was rejected with 14 votes in favour and 121 votes against. [[Motion on the right to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy to the health system]] [[302-00019/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-and-seventh of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into the right to voluntarily interrupt your pregnancy into the health care system. He has been presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win and to expose it has the word of the deputy Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.217.0	Thank you, President. Members of this House, Members of this House, we shall not say anything that we do not say in the question which has given us very little. Eleven years have passed since the 2010 law was passed to guarantee the right to abortion, and after these eleven years the Government of the Government has not been able to integrate the totality of the practice of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy into the public health service portfolio, which for us is an anomaly that requires immediate correction. An important part of abortions are outsourced to private clinics, basically because public hospitals, although they do perform medical abortions, do not practice voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, surgery or instrumentality, and this is in fact a violation of the right to abortion. For what it does to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy by pharmacological method, the public network does provide from the Assirs, from units of attention to sexual and reproductive salvation, but we remember that only until the new weeks is it possible to practice a pharmacological abortion, and, moreover, not all businesses have access to these Assirs. In fact, about a dozen communities, according to the Observatory of Sexual and Reproductive Rights, do not have access to it. To this we must add the problem of conscientious objection. About half of the professionals are declared objectors of consciousness as to the practice of aneurysm, and what we have detected is that there are hospitals of the concerted network in which this practice can be donated for instructions of employers with ecclesiastical relations. The X-ray that we have left is that 2019, as for the pharmacological IVE, therefore, about forty_percent of the comma the women did not have access, and the instrumental IVE, the instrumental avotment, have only given clinics, set to Barcelona, due to Girona and one to Tarragona, with which the reality is that many women, about half a thousand women, each year, have to see themselves forced to move in order to be able to interrupt their embarras. And to rural territories, the mileage is immense, as you can imagine. What's that supposed to mean? So for women there is, in the first place, this territorial barrier, especially difficult in the case of the territories of the Pyrenees, the Aran, the Lands of the Ebre and Central Catalonia; but it is a problem that the women run away, of many regions. Another consequence: not to sort freely which is the ideal formula for each woman, because the fact that she has to get rid of or wants to get rid of the kilometre can be a determining factor in deciding to interrupt by means of a pharmacological and non-surgical method, when in reality the woman would get much better with the instrument. Not to be attached to public health, which for us is also a violation of women's rights. To be exposed to a major criminalization and counseling by speech groups, which are systematically placed at the doors of the clinicians who practice abortions. And, besides, class me, because one of the three women ended up paying her abortion for all the confusion of the circuit we have. And, by the company's side, this means that every year we spend three million euros on these private clinics, that, in addition, we add to the problem of public-private concertation, and that we continue to leave the aneurysm as a taboo menu, because, as with the legislation of 85, it turns out that, in the end, these voluntary interruptions of pregnancy are done in private clinics, when they are surgical. That's why we're bringing a young man here who would have four blocks, basically. A first block that was intended to ensure that all methods, that both methods can be practiced from the public health network. And, in this sense, we understand that this is making the 2010 law effective: accessible information, that women can freely sort out the method that best suits them, that the public sector practices both pharmacological and instrumental or surgical. And that's serious, so points 1, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 9. And then there's a second block that's directly focused on ending these conscientious objections, mitting formation, but also mitting more drastic forms of cutting off economic collaboration with those health centres that are promoting collective objections, because we think they're inadmissible. The third block clearly says we have to fight the anti-Avortist phonementalist groups. Feminists are persecuted and retaliated. What can't be is that these people acted out wide. And lastly, the fourth block is, therefore, that we go beyond the right to abortion and guarantee a sex-affective education in a curricular way and that we advance towards menstrual and contraceptive equity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.218.0	For the sake of defending the papers presented, there is now the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.219.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, ever since the City Group, we'd like to say that we're voting for this young man's size, but we've done one of his points, and if we don't accept our point at this point, we'll abstain. And we shall ask for a separate vote from another, that even the points that you have put forward to us to vote against may not prosper. And I find it hard to say that in such important questions, we see consensus on the ground or worse still, retreating. The debate on the right to sleep has never been easy or simple, nor can it ever be done seriously without a heart. There's mass at stake. From a song, the right to life, which is true that it cannot be frivolized. We cannot ignore the gravity of interrupting an embarras. We can't make you see that we don't match what it means. We cannot fail to understand that there are teachers who apply conscientious objection to this delicate issue. At the same time, we cannot allow this conscientious objection to remove a woman, a person from her right to abort; a painful, but indispensable right. Freedom can sometimes be bitter, very bitter. I think I'm telling you this by more direct experience than I'd like, because I myself went through this lane in your day, for the voluntary interruption of an embarras. It's an experience that I don't wish on my worst enemy or enemy. I don't make these personal confessions for sensationalism or exhibitionism, but as an act of humility and good faith that I hope you all know how to value. Mirin, there is a huge difference between talking about the ear or, at last, talking about it by mouth or talking about it with knowledge of the cause. All that has deepened in the question should know how to be careful and aware that activism and ideology have a limit and this limit is when activism and ideology stop serving people, freedom of people, to become a problem or, finally, the problem of people. It doesn't matter, to the Commission of Equality and Feminisms, I said – because I believe it – that the right to life is inseparable from the right to abhorrence and that the right to abhorrence is inseparable from the right to life. It may seem contradictory, but it's not. There's a lot of truth in the presentation of this young man's motto detailing all the obstacles he's historically had to overcome in order to legalize at least the right of avotion in Spain, where it's true that maybe in some places it's still more legal in theory than in practice. Obviously, it is not possible to allow a woman who needs to abort to be disembarked and without means to do so, and it is also not impossible to ignore that, in many places in the territory, public sanitation continues to fail, passing it the hot potato, the "brown of this subject, to hear us, to private sanitation. The group proposing this young man can count that Ciutadans does it and will take it to avoid any abuse of this kind, all the restriction of the right of the awning that is intended to be made by the back door. We don't care if he asks the CUP or the Pope of Rome. We're liberals, and we defend everything that we think is right, say abortion, say euthanasia, say surrogate pregnancy. We therefore fully agree that this Government and Parliament are committed to ensuring that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is reasonably possible throughout the entire territory and that conscientious objection, if it is to be, is to be followed by individual diplomats, never by sincere health centres, much less by virtue of explicit or occult mandates, let us not say with a sense of ideological intention. That said, they'll forgive us that we don't mean to put the llop to keep the ram or the bitch to look after the chickens, and that we also recommend not to throw the child with the dirty water in the bathtub. It seems to us excessive on the part of the CUP to ask to cancel all contracts or agree with private health centers for the mere suspicion that there may be veiled vetoes against the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy. It's not that we don't think that this can ever happen, but, frankly, we don't want to open the door to arbitrariness, to a menu of sanitary estalinism, of KGB of avoting, to hear us, and more coming from a political party that doesn't hide that it's against public-private collaboration in sanitation, that it's against concerted sanitation and that wants to boost it. If you do everything you can to ensure that the law is fulfilled, then do not make such an important, delicate and, if you will allow me, sacred thing, as is the double right to life and avortion to bring forward a more anti-liberal political agenda and perhaps even more anti-democratic than it seems. There's not enough to believe in freedom and defend it, I can't pursue anyone in his name. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.220.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Aurora Madaula has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.221.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you very much, President. MPs, advisors..., well, in the first place, even though this morning we made a minute of silence for the woman murdered in Sabadell, I think it is necessary to make a lead and keep a record for the murdered woman – murdered in the hands of her partner –, especially when there are political forces in this Parliament that still deny male violence and talk about family violence or don't know what. It's indignant. And I believe that this retrograde and extremely masculine negationism of some political forces that fuel hate speech and generate LGBTI-fobic attacks are also responsible for these dead. Well, entering the debate of the young man, now yes, he has made reference – because the young man obviously makes reference to abortions – to women, to pregnant people. But I would certainly like to thank the Parliamentary Group of the UPC for bringing this motion; also to Congresswoman Laia Estrada, for presenting this motion. Also thank him that he has accepted the items that we have submitted to him; also some transactions, even though we have not just arrived at a hundred_per_cent of agreement. But thanking the arrangement, because we believe that it is a matter that is necessary – the councillor said in his inquiry, but he had also made it known in his appearance at the parliamentary level – where are these territorial dysfunctions that have become more evident especially in this pandemic, with the covet and in these territorial boundaries that we have had. The lack of territorial equity has made it not always possible to guarantee the right to abortion, as foreseen by the law, and that this involves the violation of women's rights. I think from the department it's been letting her know her willingness to fix it, and that's how we can put more tools in place with this young man so that we can do it. I do want to make an incisor, because I wouldn't like this debate about this young man to rise up again to debate about the rights of avotion, because avotion is a right, and I think that here it is not a debate, and these speeches must remain, buried, as we buried the franchise, and I hope that the Francos too. We understand that, in order to guarantee this right, as we have claimed years ago from feminist entities, entities working in the best of sexual and reproductive rights, should improve the circuit and the information that women receive, but also that it guarantees the whole territory the option of the two methods, both the pharmacological method and the instrumental method, which will allow the woman to follow the one that is definitely the one that you hear and is not for lack of a service from the center. During the year 2019 the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy in Catalonia, pharmacological, meant forty-eight_per_cent of the total number of practices, almost all to public centers, but in the case of instrumental abortions almost a ninety-eight_per_cent of the cases were performed in private clinics with concert of the Generalitat. This means that in many cases it was necessary to move the women, and this, especially in the case of the coward, made it more obvious that we were violating one of their rights. That's why we thought it was necessary to guarantee abortions in all referral hospitals in health regions, and we know that the department will be working in this direction. Speaking also to entities working on sexual and reproductive rights, they bring to us the problem of these causes of externalization, and they come to the conclusion of this social stigma around amortization, so much of the women that they solicit as professionals who practice it, but also of the objection of conscience. And here I do want to stop, because it seems to me that it is one of the important problems and that they are also in the center of this young man, as is conscientious objection. The fact is that in reality forty-two percent of public hospitals are conscientious objectors, limiting access to some demarcations, because it was made worse, as we said, because of the cove. But this conscientious objection is to say that it is fully legal, it is fully recognized in the rights of individuals and professionals, but that it can never pass over the rights of women to abort and that, of course, it is an individual right and that it can never be a corporate or institutional right, and that we do need to get old so that it does not happen. But we wouldn't be real if we said that we could fix it by bringing grants from the centers where it's practice, because it's also practice conscientious objection in public centers and, therefore, we wouldn't be complete with reality and we wouldn't be real. And so, that's why we would ask for a separate vote from point 2, because we would vote there one way... the rest of us would vote yes, but at point 2, we would not be able to vote in this way that I have just explained to them. Excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.222.0	And, then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word MP Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.223.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, as you say, two years ago the decriminalization of aneurysm, but we continue to debate the guarantee of this right. During these years there has been a certain silence around the voluntary interruptions of the pregnancy, and from 2010 until now it seemed that it was an outdated debate and, therefore, that all these questions that we are debating today and that come from the inquiry... that is, even so, no? Councillor Argimon, therefore, acknowledged that, unfortunately, Congresswoman Estrada was right. And so, years later, let's keep talking about this. And he meets with the debate about conscientious objection also about euthanasia. Therefore, we see how this decade has not been enough to give for overcoming this debate. And, in fact, it's not random, because during these years we've seen how, when there's a right-wing confrontation, it's always the women who have to see their rights violated, and therefore consider, isn't it? – and we see it now with the parental pin – that the rights of women are invisible, are private and, therefore, remain in the private sphere and are uprooted. I say that we are talking about rights confronted because, before the right of expression of these speech groups that assist women and professionals before the clinics, if we compare the right of manifestation before the right of women – also of trans men and also of non-binaries – to access a clinic without pressure, we see that the right of the assistants prevails. If we confront two more debates, as I said now, the right of conscientious objection, which is actually an individual right and is not a right of a collection or institution, and we confront the right of women to access a free, free IVE and its health-care region, we see the right of conscientious objection taking more force and end up violating the rights of people who want to abort. That's for a couple of years in a pretty quiet way. What's going on with this? So that we have an exact X-ray, only on the subject of aversion, so that in the day of patriarchy, and that means, in the end, that the rights of women are, in this system, up to date. And I don't think that's enough, do I? That gives years, eleven years after this law of decriminalization of avarice, we take the risk or we take the risk and the risk that we seem to be overdone because we have two years of law and, therefore, with the law we were supposed to have this right guaranteed. And we see that the year before the data starts coming out into the light. The conscientious objection prevents women, men and non-binaries from guaranteeing their right with territorial equity. And what happened in this decade that there was this silence and that these data haven't come out into the light? So that before the right to an EVI takes place in your health region, the stigma of abortion prevails in two areas of Catalonia, and therefore, we return to these invisible rights and to these fragile rights that we see can be postponed. Because many women... explained the companies that resulted in these abortions to other health regions that were already doing well. This is the problem: that for two years, a question like this, which was seeing your right violated, was already good for us because the stigma of having aborted exceeded your right to be able to abort your health-care region. As we say, many women see in the derivation a way to maintain their deprivation, and this means that before the right of women, for one band, and the right of speechist manifestation, and the right of conscientious objectors and stigma, for the other, today, now, 2021, we do not want to keep the needy of women any longer. And that's why we're voting in favour of the entire House today, because with the decriminalization of the avort, we see that there's not enough, with a law of ten years, eleven years, there's not enough. We see that the laws are very useful, they are engines of change, but we want the complete rights, we want them without nuances and we want them without restrictions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.224.0	Then, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.225.0	Thank you, President. Nor would it want to be repetitive, but there are many things in which, which preceded me in the interventions, so we agree. It is true, the voluntary interruption of the embara is part of the service portfolio of public health services since the year 2010. And it can't be that rights recognized, rights won that have brought us many years of struggle to get here, we can't fully develop them in the public system of salvation. And we said that yesterday, too, when we were talking about euthanasia. Neither can they tolerate any intervention, nor any assertions or words that, sometimes, want to frivolitize or minimize painful decisions. And we won't get tired of saying here, or when we talk about avoting or when we talk about euthanasia, that life is a right and not an obligation. And I remember some of the other day's interventions when we talked about euthanasia. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of this motion. We ask for a separate vote from point 2, because we believe that the one who makes point 2..., and I will talk about it, well, at this point, the moment I also speak of conscientious objection. Maybe we'll cancel and end up generating more damage than benefits. And, therefore, we believe that we cannot tolerate the objection of institutional consciousness – in this we absolutely agree – that the objection of consciousness is a recognized right, but of individual character and that, in any case, it can be accepted institutionally, because that would be as much as not fulfilling the law. And therefore, many times we find ourselves not with the public declaration of some institution, but with this subterfuge of threat. Even all the professional props, which they can't exercise... nor the right to exercise freely because they're coerced. Still, we believe – the rest of the House will vote in favour – that at this point 2 it is worth thinking about a little how we can generate the law's failure without breaking something that can cause more harm. The rest..., there are two points that seem to me – or three – absolutely important. Universalization, therefore, needed the regulation, because it cannot be that we have the law since 2017..., certainly, it stood for the Government of the People's Party, but it is up, but the regulation is not yet. And, therefore, there are some matters referred to the rules to be made. Territorial equity all the companies that have preceded me have not spoken about the difficulties of areas and territories where we cannot exercise our right. With the two of you, you're very important, aren't you? The other is the issue of sexual and affective education, giving all the elements and facilitating all the elements through the own education, above all, affective sex, which allows us the free decision. The development of a right through the free informed decision about what we are going to do. We talked – and we talked about it too – about the Assirs authorized to all health regions, and we hoped to see the concrete actions that the councilman announced, didn't we? , on the changes of the protocol to extend the terms of the pharmacological EVI or the better plan of contraception. As I said, true and clear information – and I think that this is what the motion also asks –, accessible, and that allows decision; sexual and affective education; formation of the health professionals, incorporating the gender perspective. And speaking of a gender perspective, we've been complaining about it for a long time, huh? , and we have made motions in this Parliament calling for the incorporation of the gender perspective as much in training as in research as in clinical practice. But we see and continue to see clinical trials – and we've seen it lately – in that it's not presenting the gender perspective; and, therefore, either we solve this or we won't solve it. He also speaks the accompanying motion and assessment to improve. He gave the initiator of this intervention that we will not tolerate phonamentalisms, neither to school, nor to salvation or to our life. And, therefore, we will fight against the assembling of women and professionals at the gates of the centre. It's a fight of all. So far we have come and so far we must continue. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.226.0	On behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Garriga has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.227.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that the CUP motion is a perfect apologia of the culture of death, which will surely count, unfortunately, with as much support as possible in this chamber, and it will be demonstrated once again that only VOX remains and that we are the only ones who will give the cultural battle to the left and the consensus« progress. You are making truly commendable efforts not only to go into history as an autonomous parliament or as a series of political formations that want to go into history to promote and advance your rupturist agenda and to be leaders of separatism, no; you, too, will go into history because you are a parliament, because you are political formations that have made constant efforts to deconstruct anthropology, trample biology and, ultimately, which is what you most care about, to destroy the family, the fundamental pillar of our society. And it has already advanced them: the more you advance, the more we will continue to fight the ideologically, because they are a real danger to our society and to our nation. You continue to demonstrate that neolinguism of cultural Marxism that you all practice without depensing yourself, because you come out here to talk about the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, pulling absolutely false euphemisms, when we have to talk about abortion, about the death of a person within a woman's womb. Be brave, get out here and talk about abortion, talk about killing, truncating a life of a human being into a woman. And besides, they sell it as an advance, when it's the biggest failure of all. That's right, to justify the atrocity they are wrapped up, that's right, in those flags of those false rights, right? , reproductive and sexual; in that false postmodern feminism of which all of you fill your mouths. But can you really – truly – say what you are convinced, that you want to guarantee and elevate abortion, killing a person within a woman's womb to a right? Do you really believe that, as if it were something positive? How many times will we have to repeat to them that the only right that must be guaranteed and for which we must really fight is for the right to life. You, as I have told you, are leading a political project that is not really about the right or the left; it is simply and plainly about humanity or barbarism. Abortion is neither a right – it is not – nor is it positive – really – nor is it voluntary, and you know it; it is a real failure. The women who make the decision to abort are because they feel alone, they feel abandoned in a situation of extreme gravity, and surely, and that is the big problem and that is our big proposal, because they have not had assistance, alternatives or truthful information. Are you, really, the women who are present in this chamber, aware that the son, that you are surely running with him on the weekends, you are here saying that you must kill him with absolute tranquility? [[Widow's remorse.]] Really, laugh, laugh, chase them... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] He'll chase them... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] He will persecute them in his conscience at the dawn of history, believe me, truly. Do you think...? Madam President, if you'll allow me to speak...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.228.0	Yes, of course, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.229.0	Thank you. They really believe – really – a network to support pregnant women in difficult situations so that none of them can see themselves in that situation – really. A real accompaniment, that is what this political formation proposes: support in housing, economic, labor, education in those early years, which are surely very difficult. That's what we are in: supporting the, that they're not alone. But don't offer abortion as the solution, really. Catalonia, unfortunately, is the autonomous community where the most abortions are practiced, and from that you boast. Is that why we have a feminist council? They really protect women. But no, they are more concerned about the « totis, the « tutis and those craps and those majaderias« progress, when what you really have to do and the advice of feminism is to guarantee the true dignity of every woman and every person present, in this case, in Catalonia. But, look, you will continue to advance on your agenda"progress, freed, contrary to life, anthropology, the basic principles of biology, but we will continue to defend life from conception to natural death. And in a positive way, as I said to you, posing information, assistance, alternatives, without criminalizing anyone, would be missing more. But do not condemn – do not condemn – and do not legislate to kill people in the womb of the breast. Because I want to remind you of a word from a lady named Heidi Crowter, affected by Down syndrome, those people that you every time make you less in the nation as a whole, and especially in Catalonia. This woman, Heidi Crowter, said: "I don't want to have to justify my existence. Abortion laws make me feel like I don't have to be here. I repeat: we will continue to work to ensure that Catalonia is neither a leader in abortions nor a leader in a gender perspective and is a leader in the defence of life and in the implementation of policies with a family perspective in each and every public policy. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.230.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.231.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, as you can imagine, it is difficult to make this intervention now, because it costs even so much to find the words to respond to an intervention that basically, all of it, has been an attempt against human rights here in its Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] There are those who say that they will continue to work to violate the rights of women, to violate the rights to sexual and reproductive salvation, which are internationally recognized rights; what happens is that I assume that international human rights guarantee institutions do not recognize or respect them. I, from my group, and I believe that from most of this chamber, and as we have done so far, I want to show the firm commitment to stop these forces from ever having anything to do and say to politics in Catalonia and because all their proposals are being dropped by a democratic majority that respects human rights and women's rights. We have to say enough to the presence of ultra-rights in institutions in Catalonia, in the State and throughout the world, and we will do everything we can to defend human rights. And from here, to express my pride because the Parliament of Catalonia can speak of the right to abortion, of the right to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and that, moreover, we speak of and approve of a motion, which we thank the group of the UPC that has presented, that what it does is to seek out the mechanisms and tools for this right to be guaranteed for all the women who want to join the whole territory of Catalonia, and that, moreover, it is a recognized and covered right for social security and the public system. And, in this one, we do want to talk about the model of attention that has been given to women who have wanted to voluntarily interrupt their embarras, which is a bit of what we're talking about. Because we're talking about modeling, we're talking about agreeing that this right should be guaranteed to all Catalonia, but we're talking about having a problem and not being guaranteed. And it's not a problem that starts a year ago or two years ago, it's a problem that's been identified for a long time. There are organizations that have long been reporting that many women have to go through a calvary to be able to exercise this right. And we're talking about model, because at the end we're talking about the model of the health system that we have, a model that, for many interventions, has been betting on privatization. Because, when the regularization of avarice was approved until the seven weeks, we came from a system, at the level of the State, where were the private clinics that finally made those three assumptions that allowed women to exercise the right to avarice, and that was where we had to change with the law. What we need to change is that the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy, be pharmacological, be surgical, be a benefit more than the portfolio of services..., that you can go to a public hospital and ask for a voluntary interruption of the pregnancy with which you ask for any other type of intervention provided in the public portfolio of services. And that's not happening right now. Now what's going on is that you can take care of the public service first, but then, if you want, because the kids, a surgical abortion, or because there's no other option anymore because you're more than nine weeks away... you can also go to a public hospital and you can walk through the door without anyone knowing what you're going to do in that hospital. Now the very thing that happens is that women have to go to specialty clinics that anti-Avortic groups, that have arguments like the ones we just felt in this room, they can go there and take advantage of them and criminalize them and pursue them. So, it's an access model change. We want a public system to guarantee the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in all its ways; public, fully public, it cannot be that we don't have hospitals that can't do it, it can't be that we take advantage of the conscientious objection of professionals, that it's forty-two percent, that it's very worrying, that we don't problem why we've come to this forty-two percent conscientious objection in the health professionals to the right to abortion. Maybe we haven't worked hard enough in sex-affective education, in co-education, in the training of professionals and professionals. Let's rethink what's going on. And, in any case, we're making strategies that really vagrate you to ensure that all referral hospitals in each health region have a unit that can guarantee voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. This... there has been a change in the movement, they have changed the creation of these units for a general, "guarantee; we are concerned – we are concerned – because it has been said for a long time, and it is exercised very little. And the issue of territorial equity, which has also been discussed. The counselor is certain that he has compromised and assumed that he has a problem, but we hope that there is no more good word, that we all vote for it. Because the best way to respond to interventions like the previous one, the one that preceded me, is to guarantee this right to all these women; that they have easy access, informed and accompanied to the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy; that it is a conscious decision and of which they assume what they suppose for their life and have accompanying for what they suppose, and that Catalonia is a pioneer in guaranteeing this right from the public system. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.232.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.233.0	Thank you very much, President. I don't think anyone's gonna be surprised if I say I'm for life. I don't believe in a law of euthanasia if there isn't a law of palliative care, and I'm horrified to hear about free abortion and minors who can interrupt a barbarism without accompanying or knowing their parents. We have a birth rate on the ground, and unfortunately, for too long we only hear about politics and laws to end life. We're turning our society into a hedonist and selfish society, and I don't think this is the society we want to leave to our children. You, in your inquiry, which I was able to follow in the past Ple, applaud a campaign in networks that literally says that aversion is salvation and self-healing. So no, this campaign is trivializing a very transcendent action, with important psychological consequences and, sometimes, with physical consequences. It's not taking away the appendage because it's inflamed you and it hurts, it's killing your son. And they can put their hands in the head and they can tell us we're not right: it's killing your son. They talk about women's rights, and where are the rights of couples? What don't they have? You really don't have one? They talk about the objection, the right to the conscientious objection, to decide that you will decide on the conscience of the teachers, that you form to save lives and make a vow to save lives, and pretend that the Administration rules the consciences. But where are we coming from? Really... isn't anyone free to have their own conscience? None? Do you want to eradicate the conscientious objection of doctors? Because that's what you're proposing. But do you know what I didn't hear them talking about today or the other day's inquiry? The right of the ninth. And tea. The figure of the nasciturus exists, our Civil Code regulates it. And you don't just regulate it, you protect it; you're lucky our Civil Code protects it. But you don't even talk about this right. They talk about ensuring the interruption of pregnancy, and they don't like it very much that there are limitations: if it's free, much better. But are we really giving alternatives to the women that are being planted? Because let me tell you one thing: there is no choice if there is no alternative, neither on the subject of aneurysm nor on the subject of euthanasia. If I don't give an alternative, there is no choice for the person who is making that decision. And it's our obligation and it's our responsibility to give this free choice. As long as you're talking about freedom... you're forced to sort paths, and we don't have to sort paths; we have to facilitate the sorting, with election freedom. And I think they'd be surprised, if you actually exist this sort of possibility, of the cracks that would come out. Because many people didn't triate euthanasia to end their lives and many people didn't triate to interrupt an embarras for a momentary, punctual circumstance. That's what would really happen. And that's what we should be busy and worried about. Therefore, as I have said, soc for life, I believe in the defense of all human life – whether or not I am born. And, therefore, we will not give them our vote in favour of this motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.234.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.235.0	Two minutes give for very little... In short, the first question: the conscientious objection and the problem that raises in some games point 2. Look, it's a matter of having consequences before the objection of collective and institutional consciences. What can't be is that ecclesiastical or church-related employers, instead of removing their rosaries from our ovaries, continue to influence and determine whether we can practice a voluntary interruption of pregnancy or not. [[Greetings.]] That, for starters. The problem you have with Point 2 is that you want to shield the public-private concert model. And that's it. And we speak clearly. And give priority that it is not up to any of this model to ensure that, in our country, there can be no institutional conscientious objection promoted for its employers. They do what you think, but then they do and they say what is the priority: the interests of these economic concerts to the interests of the women's group. And, therefore, you agree that I continue to pass the usual thing in the toilet, that it is that the public pays and the private hand and imposes its conditions. As for the discourses of the Faixists, of the Misogins, of the Masclists, which are the same discourses as those of homophobia and racism, the same discourses that many years back promoted the robbing of children, right? ... [[Greetings.]] I mean, in fact, if some of us got hit, some of us would get our future creatures; fortunately, they can't do that anymore. Abortion is a right, it's as it is. It's a right, and it's about doing it as fast as possible. And defending the right to awning is perfectly compatible with defending the right at the time of having decent lives. And precisely, what hypocrisy, that of the Faixist speeches, that fill their mouths speaking of life when you are the ones who condemn the majority of the population to misery. Because they are the ones who are against public policies, they are against strong public servants, and they are against distributing wealth, because they will never move the hand of the love that gives them to eat, logically. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.236.0	Yes, Mrs. Grau? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that I didn't feel good: 2 and 3?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.237.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.238.0	Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Two and three, separately? Because I had been asked for point 2, and now I've been asked for points 2 and 3. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. So we proceed to the vote on Point 2. The vote begins. Point 2_has counted with 50 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 64 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The motion was approved, with 120 votes in favour and 13 votes against. Let's go to the twenty-night stand to... [[Some applause. The president laughs.]] You can clap, if you want. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the feminization of the Generality's Bomber Cos]] [[302-00022/13]] The twenty-eight point of the order of the day is the motion following the question to the Government on the feminization of the Generality's Bomber Cos, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. And, to give her the presentation, the honourable Member, Núria Picas, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.239.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Before I begin my intervention, I would like to thank the skilled staff who are doing our emergence services and, more concretely, the firefighters and firefighters in these fires that are besieging our country. Unfortunately, Catalonia is land of fire, it has cremated, cream and will continue to cremate, and our goal is to reduce the risk to zero, and we hope to achieve it. A job that, as I have said on repeated occasions, I am passionate about, a wonderful job, but where the women are really underrepresented. In fact, the numbers are shameful: only two_per_cent of the members of the Bomber Cos are women; concretely, there are fifty-two women who respect the 2,500 that today is the Generality's Bomber Cos. And if not, we have the data, which are very clear: there are twelve women on the basic ladder, there are thirty-two on the technical ladder, there are two corporals, there are only five sub-spectors – and today I would like to congratulate one especially, Mari Muñoz, who has come out of school today, and, therefore, tomorrow she will be able to exercise as a sub-specter, and here... our little grain of sorra. And, as I said on other occasions, in the interrogation, we only have a woman inspector in the body. This is only evidence of two things: evidence that the scope of emergencies is clearly in the hands of men, and, second of all, therefore, that we urgently need to feminize the Firehouse by deploying all the necessary actions and that they are in our abyss to increase the number of women and reverse this situation of inequality that we are patenting. In addition to deploying these corrective measures, it is essential to develop a level playing field for the body in order to achieve full equal representation and guarantee this increase in gifts. One of the aspects we want to defend in our young man is the subject of physical tests, especially in access tests to enter the body. What we want is to guarantee equal opportunities. I've always liked to say and defend that this is a team job, that it doesn't need to be a superhero or a superhero to get into the Bomber Cos. It's a team job: if there's not the first one up, there's going to be the one that's stronger, and where there's not the lowest one up, there's going to be the one that's higher, or the forced bomber will make a pocket and the resistant will make another one. But it's true that a gender perspective has to be applied, because the evidence of access I think today is more conducive, in this case, to the man who gives it. Therefore, equal opportunities, and try to find the way because, already applying some scales or percentages, this, therefore, can come to match. One of the other points we defend in this young man is the issue of reproductive salvation. The woman is also pregnant, firefighter's exercise. This is not an incapacity, but it does have to guarantee the right to work. And that means adapting the work place, maybe not being in the front line, but they can do tasks at the park. And in this case, what we're asking is that you stay at the park more suited to your home, as well as trying to keep this twenty per cent at the time of maintaining physical salvation and also have access to compulsory training, either at the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia or at the place closest to your home where these courses are held. Therefore, being pregnant is not an incapacity, but we must encourage the integration, in this case, of the woman to her place of work. One of the other historical questions: the adequacy of dressing rooms, the adequacy of showers, rest rooms. A historical claim that we have been struggling for a long time, such as the adaptation of PPE, of individual protection teams, thus avoiding this job discrimination that we are patenting women to the body. And, lastly, defend the Fem team project. Summarize there, the generality bombers. This means visibility, normalizing the presence of women. We must take the public administration's commitment to promote women in the commanding positions of the body. That doesn't mean just handing over the gallons, but actually exercising power. We need female leaders to be able to admiralize it. Also what we said in the previous question with the counselor: we need references and leadership in women to say: "Ostres, if they can, why not, I, too, prove it? And it's not just accessing the Bomber Cos, it's just these women's leadership places. Therefore, we ask for the support and the vote in favour of this motion, because the compromise with the gender perspective cannot remain in empty words. This goes on to work honestly, cross-sectionally and honestly to understand what is simply not right and to improve our lives, our women. It's the challenge we have as a society, eliminating vices, inertias, rapes, taboos, and for firefighters, obviously, too. I end up with three simple requests: more women, more rights and more opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.240.0	To defend the papers presented, has now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.241.0	Thank you, President. Well, we've just presented a little thought that we think it's important to always stress: that when we talk about equality, we don't just talk about gender equality. And that's why we want to add this gene specification when it mentions "equality" in point 2.a. For what it does to the rest, we are absolutely agreeable and very happy, in fact, that this motion is present. We are absolutely convinced, like the group that presents it, Esquerra Republicana, that it is essential to increase the representation of the gifts in the Department of Interior in general and specifically in the Cos de Bombers. Because, well, as the companion who presented the motion has already explained, the visibility of the few women..., this two-per-cent of women who form part of the body between these 2,500 people, so it's very important not only for those who are already there, but for those who come, right? We know perfectly well – and above all the women Members of this House – the importance that it has in its face not only to those who are accompanying us, but to those who are fighting, to those who are seeing us, that we make this representation and this visibility. Much agrees to make this study to adapt physical evidence of access, which would not be an adaptation, but an adaptation to the reality of the diversity we live in. It's not, in this case, about feminizing the Bomber Cos, but maybe demasculinitating it, is it? That is to say, let us not fall into the trap either that it is us who are to be placed in a masculine world, but perhaps that the masculine world ceases to be because it is not just masculine, but is diverse in gender, ethnicity, purchasing ability, etc. Therefore, in whatever it is to democratize the work and public administration bodies, you will find us in favour. And very much agree to raise this young man. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.242.0	Then, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.243.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. I, before anything else, want to keep a record for the woman you murdered in Sabadell today. She murdered her partner. I deeply regret this new assassination, which should not have happened. My group will vote in favour of this Republican Left Movement of Catalonia on the feminization of the Generality's Bomber Cos. We're not only completely in agreement with everything you're proposing, but we also think that, conveniently modified, we could extrapolate it to many other areas. And not only to professions where physical skills have a very special weight, but, I say, with modifications, to all professions very masculinized, which are precisely the least precarious and which may be of greatest interest to women. Certainly, we consider that an equality plan that objectively defines the criteria that each work place requires, as some companies are already doing..., this would help a lot to visualize people who complicate the requirements to cover a work place, and not men who can cover it. It is a pity that the CUP has been accepted, that it has converted "equality plan" into "equality plan", and that is not what the Law says 17/2015, of effective equality between women and men, which only speaks of equality plans. It also seems to us very well that physical tests are analysed so that equal opportunities between women and men are guaranteed. It's about establishing different score scales or applying a percentage increase on the score obtained for women. There is a study of the Autonomous University, of the Observatory of Sport..., it is a report that speaks of sport and gender that says: "The sexual differences between the group of men and women imply that our response to the exercise in quantitative parameters remains different, if well within each group there can also be very different subjects. And it's that, actually, what's going on in the bomber tests is the same thing that's going on in the sport. In sport, in general, body size, such as muscle strength or density oxysy and lung capacity, are clearly superior in the man. Therefore, we need these corrective measures. Also, fully agree on the need to increase the visibility and presence of women reference bombers, but not only women reference bombers. We need reference women in all spheres: in the field of experimental sciences, social sciences, technology, art, culture. We need our babies to visualize the women. For example, it is a blatant omission that there are not enough women in the communication media, in the text books, in the exhibitions. Few women, few girls choose to study astrophysicism or naval engineering, for example, and it is because of gender stereotypes that they already learn from before they are born, because it is now known that it is spoken with a different tone to children when they are using the seas. And, for example, so they don't have to wear skirts, which is a piece that limits the freedom of movement a lot. These stereotypes of genera that learn from our whole life, or from our whole socialization, condition our roles, condition our choices – for example, professional choices – and also the way we develop work. To give an example, scientific articles – of men – have increased by 50_per_cent during the basket, while articles written by scientists – by women have decreased by 20_per_cent. During confinement, the women, mostly, because of these gender stereotypes, have assumed the roles of healing. He gave a study by Dr. Artazcoz, presented at a lecture to Palau Macaya, who even knows that men have written these articles to their home offices, while the women, the few who have written, have written them to the kitchen, to the grocer or to the habitation of the creatures. And that's because of the gender stereotypes that obviously bring us down. We also find it essential to adapt work places in case of pregnancy or lactation. And not just to prevent them from discriminating for what he does to the tasks to be carried out, but also because they cannot be discriminated against, neither to them nor to the women of any other profession, for what he does to his promotion options. It also seems essential to us that there are spaces – dressing rooms, showers and rest rooms – that are specifically enabled for women. According to a study cited by Fair Play for Women, unisex or neutral dressing rooms are more dangerous for women and children than sex-segregated installations. Of the sexual assaults reported to the unisex dressing rooms..., i.e., the norma_per_cent is produced in unisex installations, while in separate installations by sex there was practically no or many fewer. Finally, I would ask that parliamentary initiatives be adjusted to the law of equality that we approved in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.244.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr Antonio Ramón López has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.245.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies... We are presented with a motion to feminize the Department of Interior and, especially, the Generalitat Fire Department. First of all, our appreciation to all working women who are what they are for their merits and abilities, and not for being part of the imposition of quotas. Stop victimizing women with actions that seek only a political outcome. « The feminist revolution and the Catalan and Republican revolution go hand in hand; statements by Vilalta, by Esquerra Republicana. Of course, as you now see that only with the separatist process is not enough, you try to complement what you call the feminist revolution. Feminize, feminize, feminize, feminize, feminize... feminize absolutely everything. Why? For what? To continue to fatten their structures? To have more public spending? We wonder, ladies and gentlemen, whether there will be any matter with more priority than that of feminizing because of the mere fact of feminizing, which is what they claim with the creation of the council of Equality and Feminisms. For example, wouldn't it be better to comply with the Strategic Plan of the Fire Corps for the period 2017-2022? It is a plan that is unfulfilled, not covering the human and material needs of our firefighters, since no investments have been made in new infrastructure or preventive maintenance, nor in the supply of materials, nor clothing, nor equipment, so that they can offer all services with adequate levels of quality and personal safety. In addition, while wasting public resources with unnecessary advice, we find, for example, that Catalonia records the worst data on poverty. And the children who suffer the most are the children, who have a 33,3_per_cent of child poverty. And Catalonia only invests 0.8_per_cent in policies for children. Do you not believe that this is a priority and that action must be taken? Look, we don't argue that there are women in the Fire Department; on the contrary, we defend women's freedom to engage professionally in whatever they want. What we do not agree with is the impositions, which also create obvious inequalities. I don't know any women whose vital aspiration is to be a quota woman. With this proposal they claim that, when there are cases of tie, the fact of being a woman prevails. This is an attack on equality, since in the event of a tie in the access tests neither the principles of equality, nor merit, nor capacity will be taken into account; only being a woman will be taken into account. From VOX we cannot support any proposal that generates inequalities. What we defend is the human being, by his courage, his surrender, his knowledge and his attitudes. That is why men and women must be valued as well. So we are going to vote against the quotas and in favour of everything that covers the needs of the Fire Department. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.246.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.247.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members, Councillor, Councillor... I think we agree with most of the groups in which it is an important and necessary movement that makes Parliament confirm the commitment to the need to feminize the Department of Interior and, in concrete terms, the Firehouse. We don't think it's appropriate to close this deal, that we gave it in fact, but, well, we'll do it, we'll close the deal. But we believe that there is obviously a problem, a difficult problem still, at the time of the Government of Catalonia moving towards equity and parity in participation between men and women in certain areas, tasks and functions, right? In fact, for this 2017, four years ago, the equality plan between men and women of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia was approved – four years ago. A plan that had a specific set of measures for the incorporation of women into the Bomber Cos, a specific set of measures that included a sufficiently comprehensive diagnosis on which was the situation of women in the Bomber Cos and approximately sixty concrete, terrified measures of what was to be done to advance in the incorporation of women and in the equality between men and women in the Bomber Cos. We're talking about a 2017 plan. We don't know what's happened here. We don't know if it's applied. Because one of the things the plan said was that we had to report the results of this plan, which we couldn't access. As at least on the consulting website I haven't been able to find them. We have found the reference to the plan, but not the concrete things that have been done. We also found a broadcast campaign to encourage more women to fire, which was one of the actions of the pla, but we lacked more things. The counselor said, didn't he? In his intervention at the inquiry, there were things that had not been done well. And, of course, we can agree, because it is clear that the figures – and I will not repeat them, they have already been said at the beginning – continue to feel worrying. For example, at the last call of 250 candidates for the Cos de Bombers, of the 3,600 requests, 301 were of women, and this is data from the same consultancy. According to the information we have, of the 250 people who have accessed a square, there are only twenty women. And we're talking about places that have been solved, one or two months ago... it's not much, that have been solved, but, well, they've been solved recently, let's just say, this year. Clearly, we do not know if it has already applied, for example, some of these criteria that were on the equal footing and that defined how to modify some of the places, to the selection process, in order to ensure that there are more women who are present and to ensure that there are more women who pass them. And we said it, and we shared it, huh? : there are various problems. One is that there are few women, that is obvious. So... it's asking us and thinking and working out why there are few women present. Another is the campaign of awareness and training and visibility of women firefighters, but it is clear that it has much to do with the model of education, with the model of education from the zero years, with a model of co-education and sex-affective education that empowers women, and that we have many children that seem to be great and can be firefighters. Because being a firefighter is, in addition, a job compatible with pregnancy, motherhood, lactation, menstruation and all the issues they have to do with reconciliation and putting the cures and life in the centre; it is not a job for men and only for men and women cannot do, but they can do it, and on equal terms with men. Another issue, and it's one of those that attacks this young man a lot – and we are very much in agreement with one of the proposals – is this: the tests of access and selection, as appropriate to the participation of women, and that many of the requirements and criteria can be different between men and women and can be changed. And now we have the example of the last call, which was also made in Barcelona, in which some of these measures have already been applied, and this has assumed that they are present and that they pass more women than they usually do. At the previous convocation only a woman – of some seventy – passed; in this case, there were twelve – of seventy-nine. I mean, we think it's an increase, that I still feel insufficient, clearly. Some of the changes, for example, have been eliminating minimum and maximum heights in access requirements; changing physical test qualification scales, such as the launcher stroke, the agility circuit or the swimming circuit; removing pressure forces on the bench and the horizontal jump; and, in the case of office tests, incorporating into the health area. These are things that can be done and that we hope that they will already be a concrete thing for the next time that there is a call for places for the Bombers Cos of the Generality of Catalonia. And a third area – and it was also mentioned – is like breaking the glass floor and working so that there are more women in the direction and command of the Firehouse. And it's that..., rescued only some of the things that are on the equal board, that are already there, such as, for example, that at the command place contests are valued knowledge and enabled such as cooperation, communication and dialog, or that it is recognized as deserving of having conducted training courses in gender equality, or measures to achieve equal representation in the event of entry into the scores. I mean, there's a lot of things you're thinking about – and the counselor knows it – there's a lot of things that have already been worked out, and what's worth it is to put us all at once to work and apply these measures to move forward in this match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.248.0	It has the word now, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.249.0	Thank you very much, President. I will speak from here because I will be brief, because I do not want to repeat the arguments that have been given in the presentation of this young man, to which I am already advance that we will vote favorably at all points, right? , just with a little observation. Yes, it is true that in other countries there are significant figures of the presence of women in the shell of bombers. They're laughing here. In fact, they commented in the presentation of the motion that Catalonia was a two-per-cent, but if we look at the whole of Spain not above or at the u percent. And that, then, is something that we need to worry about and take care of, because it's obvious that something is going wrong, isn't it? In fact, if you search the Internet for the words "bomber or" fire, when you pose "bomber and a man comes out extinguishing a fire, and if you pose "bomb and a woman comes out disguised as a fire. So we repeat: there is a problem, isn't there? Armed forces and security bodies have equal observers, but I think it's not the case with the Bomber Cos, and that can be one of the reasons for which it's a profession that hasn't just entered women's lives. And maybe there's some scepticism about the woman's competence to be a firefighter, and I think it's something we need to fight. In this sense, we fully understand the measures they propose; in fact, we share them, and that is why we will give our vote in favour of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.250.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mrs Mercè Esteve.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.251.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies... Before entering the matter, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts we want to get all our support and thanks to all the security and emergencies, both functioning as volunteers, that are always at the edge of the canon, but in this is especially hard efforts to protect the citizenry and its territory before all emergencies. In particular, to all the team of firefighters, movers, rural agents, civil protection volunteers, personnel of 112 and all the local world, for their dedication and compromises in front of all the emergencies such as the recent fires in Llançà, Port de la Selva and the Selva de Mar, which has cremated more than 415_hectares to the High Empordà, as well as many others, such as Castellví de Rosanes, to the Baix Llobregat. You have all our support and grace. Thank you. We talk about firefighters, yes, and we also talk about firefighters, because yes, we do, there is. From the eighties, as we say, we have gifts to the Bomber Cos. Today, I have fifty-four– fifty-two, fifty-four...–, so alone a two-per-cent of all the Generality's Bomber Cos, added to the six-per-cent among the volunteer firefighters. In order to resolve this situation, a series of initiatives have been carried out since the Government of Catalonia. As we spoke a little while ago, the equal opportunities plan between women and men of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia included two lines of action: one common and another aimed at specific collections, such as the case of firefighters, rural agents and prison technicians. In the case of this other part, speaking of the Cos de Bombers, concretely, the representativeness of women is prioritized through actions that affect access to the Cos and professional promotion. For another band – we also talk –, and with the same objective, various communication campaigns are planned, as is the case with the ‘Fem team' campaign. Summarize there, looking for the visibility of this collection showing women firefighters in action: intervening in traffic accidents, mountain rescues and fires. This campaign is repeated every 8 March of two years ago, and has always relied on the support of the Department of Interior, the Catalan Institute of Donations and the Department of Education. With all this, I don't want to say that it's all done. Obviously, much work remains to be done, as the current percentage of women represented in the body is far from being a representative percentage of our society. That's why it's necessary, as we say a little while ago, this change of mindset: a change of education, a change of normalization respect the profession and also – why not say so? – among the first women. And it is that culturally it still assimilates this profession as an officer of men, and also as a work that imposes respect; but no, because the quality of a team is its diversity. This is a need to deal more adequately and more accurately with victims, because with a mixed team the service is much more complete and much better. Moreover, it should also be borne in mind that today we are missing nine opposition summonses that allow us to fill in the template and, at the same time, the incorporation of nine women. Therefore, the recurved path has not been easy, but it has been done, and it will continue to do everything possible to achieve a more equitable and equal future for the female firefighter. It is a prayer that from the Parliamentary Group of Together we give our most firm support to all the actions that are aimed at seeking balance, equality between men and women, in all professional spheres, but especially in our Fire and Fire Department. Our vote will obviously be in favour. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.252.0	And now you have the word Ciutadans MP, Mrs. Navy Bravo, whom I jumped and apologized to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.253.0	It's all right, President, but they're not going to get rid of us so easily. [[Rialles.]] The Organic Law 3/2007 of 22 March on the effective equality of women and men and the Spanish Constitution itself, in article 9.2, oblige the public authorities to promote conditions for the equality of the individual and the groups in which he or she is integrated to be real and effective. And not only that: according to article 11 of the same Organic Law 3/2007, the public authorities must implement positive actions in order to give effect to the constitutional right to equality and adopt specific measures in favour of women precisely to correct obvious situations of de facto inequality with respect to men. Also here in Catalonia, Law 17/2015 of 21 July, effective equality of gifts i homes, obliges the public authorities to comply with the gender perspective, referred to in article 41 of the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia precisely in order to achieve effective equality between women and men. So, with all this legal framework in place, we have not just understood why Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya, which precisely holds the presidency of the Government of Catalonia, needs to submit a motion to comply with the laws, when it already has the obligation and the entire executive power to do so. In fact, the llei d'egualatat, in its article 16.1, specifically regulates equality policies in the public service by designating the Institut Català de les Dones as the person responsible for setting the general criteria that departments, autonomous bodies and public bodies must observe for the elaboration of the bases of calls for access to public occupation. And there is something in the motion that also draws my attention to, and that is that from 2.b the assumption, by the proposing parliamentary group, that the lower presence of women in the Fire Department is due to an inferiority that prevents them from passing the cut-off notes just in the physical tests, obviating that there are already some bars adapted for them and that, on many occasions, it is not in the physical tests, but in the subsequent personal interview..., where it is well known that the baremo is usually much more subjective. Let us say that the motion's approach is based on a very ugly premise: that women are being pushed back by these physical tests because they are weaker, when personal interviews are really very often, where the greatest discrimination applies and in which there may also be a potential sexist bias. But, well, the subjectivity of these personal interviews may be good enough for the government. And, in relation to this, I also miss in the motion an allusion to the fight against stereotypes, which provoke a demotivation of women when presenting themselves to some opposition to the Fire Department. And, after all, maybe even that touch that they might put them behind in the tests, that they won't be able to overcome the ones, so I demotivated many of them. In any case, we will vote in favour of this motion, which basically asks you to comply with your obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.254.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of the deputy Núria Picas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.255.0	Thank you, President. Well, in the first place, then, give thanks to the groups that have supported this motion to feminize the Generality's Bomber Cos. For what it does to the reports submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the UPC, our parliamentary group has accepted them all. Give them thanks. There are two elements that perfectly complement the original text and improve it. So thank you, too. For what she does to Congresswoman Basha, therefore, very well agreed: what we do not want is for her to become part of a masculine world, but what we pretend is not to normalize what is a completely abnormal fact. I don't know if I got it right, huh? You suggested that access tests were like an interview in which she is ugly as a subjective selection. I don't know. Actually, the numbers sing, huh? As I said before, we are a two-per-cent, there are only fifty-two..., fifty-four firefighters – that we will talk about – so the numbers are who they are. And subjectivities... it seems to me that, in the case of favoring women, it's not like that. All right, all right, I just wanted to say that we're still brave; that companies and companies are still brave. You're of justice. They're totally historical claims. What we want is to transform from our function as public service, with the republican values that characterise us, and to make a policy for the general interest, for people and for the common good. Well, I might not make a promise now, huh? , which is to challenge the deputy of VOX. I, frankly, to the deputy of VOX, I don't know who wrote him his speech, I don't know who did it, but he took me to the years of the Node, huh? , and look at me punching '76. I'm not saying it for the look or the whole, but I'm saying it for the things he said. In fact, I said at the last intervention... we have a group of WhatsApps, and this failure of the promise... they asked me to please not put me on your level. So, I'm gonna do it, I'm not gonna put it on its level, because I think it's pretty demented. Thank you very much. And they're still brave. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.256.0	I have separate votes on point 2, letters d, and f. Is there another petition? [[Pause.]] I understand that only this one, and we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Therefore, we will vote in the first place point number 2.d. [[Pause.]] No, they can vote jointly d, and i f. Is that correct? Yes, Mr. Iron? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's correct, together these three letters. Perfect. So, we're voting now on point 2, d, and f. The vote begins. These three letters from item 2 were approved, with 135 votes in favour. We're voting for the rest of the young man. The vote begins. The motion was approved, with 124 votes in favour and 11 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the social situation]] [[302-00023/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-nine point of the order of the day, which is the motion following the government's inquiry into the social situation. It has been presented for the Socialists and Units Group to advance, and to expose it has the word Ms. Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.257.0	Good afternoon. I don't know Raúl Moreno, who couldn't come, and so I make the intervention in his name. Raúl Moreno questioned Constellera Cervera in the Ple past, made an inquiry about the social situation in Catalonia. And we must say that the social situation in our country is critical. It was before the pandemic, and after knowing the data that has recently emerged from the survey of living conditions, we directly have to say that they do. They surmise the rise of the inequalities in the pandemic, because it is an indicator, as the professor Luis Ayala says, who is used to having enough inertia. And we have to say again: at these times in Catalonia there are almost two million Catalans – 1,900,000 Catalans – who are at risk of poverty or poverty. A growth so great that we had during the pandemic found that there were already many families in our home, many of them, who already lived on the edge before the pandemic. And we have to say, too: the candidate Aragonès promised in the campaign an investiture with presupposition. I to the investiture will promise a social rescue plan of 700_million. And in these moments we don't have, counsel, the deputies and deputies, either thing or the other. Where I said, I mean Diego. And here the question is: where is the social plan? We have the feeling that it's gone, just like the 2021 presupposition has gone. I believe that they must come out of the enchantment of the process and meet the reality, counsel, because it is urgent that the government prioritize, with resources, with public services and with benefits, the reduction of the child poverty, job insecurity, the cures of dependent people and the poor work. You're urgent. And I think it's one of the most important debates that shouldn't be repeated, and getting used to approving these motions and then not doing it. The tax that measures the risk of poverty in Catalonia – the Arope tax –, which is calculated since 2013, had never been so high before – May – and still does not have the full incidence of the pandemic. So, the last legislature we did a lot of monograms, we approved a lot of things. We have another vote on a motion that has twenty-three points, but no sub-partisanship, that prioritizes the actions that the government should do, that they could do and that we want them to do. Some have been approved, voted, and are not executed. And, therefore, what we want is for the presumption to be compromised. In the time that I have left... There are twenty-three proposals; I don't have time, and therefore I will only focus on the subject of cures and attention to dependency and childhood. The pandemic... The Victoria Camps, which has made a book doesn't make it called Care Times, says that crises always have a positive part. And she says we're aware of frailty and vulnerability, with this pandemic, right? ; that maybe this vulnerability was the most commented on in these months and already more than a year we carry a pandemic; that it made us live a little less arrogant and less sure of all of us. Well, so this consciousness of vulnerability should also bring us to a paradigm shift, and this paradigm shift should bring us to concrete action. And in this motion, what we have are concrete measures that do not become governmental actions. Ms Vergés said that she would revert the privatization of medical care to Catalan residential centres. I'm voting today. And we want to see what the government and the groups that support it say today. How many times do we have Catalans and Catalans waiting for a residential square and five thousand empty places of residence and five thousand empty places of day centers? Why do things that the Valencian country does, that it's getting more agile, to Catalonia is not a fan? Why don't we decide to ask questions that are approved and that in Catalonia they don't want to? The government has decided to reduce delays, arrange certain places in a year, so... they don't go through and directly don't invest resources. And we're not just talking about a cure. For what it does to childhood, we have said it many times – and we voted for it in this Parliament –: we need a commission to fight the poor child to do it in a cross-cutting way. Councilman Cambray made an answer to Congresswoman Niubó and talked about the scholarships, didn't he? , which is a very important issue of childhood. Well, then thirteen thousand help go to the primary... a few months later these thirty thousand help is in three thousand. Do you think there are a thousand children and children who are no longer vulnerable? No, it's just that the government leaves them... stop investing in them and stop giving these benefits and these food aid. Therefore, we need all these concrete policies that are in this young man's hands. The same goes for us with the educated reader. We don't want the gatherings and the campaigns of the entities that make the education of our children arrive. It's government responsibility, and it's irresponsible not to. Last but not least – and I finish, President – we want to thank the groups that support the Government, the municipalities and the CUP for the reports presented and the constructive debate they have had with Mr Moreno to reach agreement. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.258.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.259.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Granados, it wasn't Mr. Moreno, but you can see Mr. Moreno's hand. [[the timer riu]] All right, everybody. He's a good social worker. We agree with much of the joint that you present to us, and we thank Mr. Moreno, with whom we have made contact, for the predisposition he has made to agree on the points that we have come to agree on. Well, the more data we have, obviously, the easier it will be to make decisions that will have a scientific basis, and, therefore, will be well-functioning and will be more correct decisions. He talks about guaranteed minimum income and vital minimum income, which must be unified. It's obvious they're going to unify, but how are they going to unify? They must be unified..., it can only be in one way: with unique processing and with the transfer of the management of the vital minimum income of the Government of the State to which it has the competences in Catalonia in the matter of social services, the Generalitat. And, linked to the past, the portfolio of social economic benefits has to be reviewed and optimized, and connected to the guaranteed income of citizenship. We're told that Sevad's teams would have to do the PIA once they've made the valuation of dependence. The PIA..., would not simplify anything, that the faith the SEVAD, and the SEVAD does not know the social environment in which he saw and the context of the dependent person. What the social services are supposed to do is... make them in a hurry, surely, but they have to do who knows the dependent person and in what context he/she lives. What SEVAD could do is unify value with disability. That didn't come out in his exhibition, but I could do it. Nor does it seem to us that the fact that the residents make the PIAs allegereici nothing. What appeals do you think will offer the residences if they make a PIA? A residential attention, a residential appeal, because that's what they do. But maybe the person you're appreciating should be at home. Therefore, it must be done by the basic social services. With reference to residential places: before we talk about more or less residential places, I think we need to determine which model of care for dependent people we want our country to have. Do we want them to be in residence? We want, as the belief in the disability of the United Nations says, that each student resides where and how he or she lives, regardless of institutionalization. Poor child: all the efforts we make there will be few. And we liked talking about social rights and talking about training and occupation, because it's the best way to get out of social problems. The cassation of the formation between the SOC and the demands of the labor market, essential; the professional accreditation, indispensable. This morning Deputy Canadell said: « 79_percent of businesses in 2019 said they found it difficult to find qualified staff; in fact, thirty-five_per_per_cent did not cover all vacancies, while there was unemployment in Catalonia. That, like society, we can't afford. We cannot afford this either in terms of productivity or in terms of caring for people. As you see, we share the diagnosis, it can't be otherwise. If we factor in all the requests you make to your young lady, we'd find a common denominator, which is the resources and the need for resources. All countries, all economies, pay tribute to their economic activity. And then, with these taxes, the public authorities have resources to deal with society's problems. This does not happen in Catalonia: the State collects the noranta_per_cent or the noranta-five_per_cent – after five years – from the tributes to Catalonia; Catalonia brings the 19.2 of the entrances of the entire State and only the 13.4_per_cent of the expenses. Not to mention the financing of dependence. The year 2007, when the law of dependency is announced on drums and silversmiths, it is said that it will finance equally the contribution of the Administration between the State and the autonomous communities. Well, "apart from the same means fifty_per_cent. You know, the year 2019, how did the Government of the State finance the law of dependence in Catalonia? In a trze_per_cent. Do you know what the year 2019 is, the accumulated debt of the State for what it does to dependency? 3.649_millions; 3.649_millions, 400_millions each of the years in which the law of dependence has been in force. What Catalonia needs to lend the services to the citizenry and the services that the citizenry is worth is a state that doesn't go against it, a state that goes for it, an independent state. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.260.0	For the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mr Bartomeu Conte has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.261.0	Thank you, President. Counselress, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, know perfectly well that the social situation in which the country finds itself is extraordinarily complicated. The global health crisis of the covid has had very severe direct consequences in the life of the citizenry. More than salvation, it has affected the economy, culture, education, social relations, the emotional balance of all generations, and has had very negative consequences in sectors such as housing and in the world of work. In this sense, I would like to emphasize today that the world of work has suffered from two wage devaluations: in 2012, through labour reform, and in 2020, which, while joining an ERTO, also represented a wage devaluation. But, despite all this, there is an unpredictable, survivable and very difficult situation, we are clear that the solution does not in any case go through austerity and retail policies. On the contrary, we bet to strengthen public services and their provision of services to give value to everything that guarantees people's rights and helps to strengthen the fabric and social cohesion. That is why the government of Catalonia – I said in the Committee on Social Rights – worked to leave no one behind, and during the pandemic placed Catalonia ahead, and with a difference, of direct aid to the citizen, with 1,794_million euros in direct aid because of covid-19 – before Valencia, with 580, or Madrid, with 351 – and that, if I may say so, there are 295_millions more than 1,500_millions that you proposed in your social plan of government, I think they say, "in the shade. In any case, we in the Republican Left take very seriously the recovery of the social rights of this country's citizens. We have ambition and continue with courageous Republican policies. At the beginning of this month, a plan was approved to combat the throttle – that wage devaluation we had mentioned – with 900_million euros. Or, in the past legislature, it recovered the reversal in education from zero to three years all going from a presumption of zero to 70_million euros. Or in habitation, where it was destined 104_million euros between 2018 and 2019 to acquire 1,400 us habitations by the way of the tanteig and retraction. And now we're going to keep it, in addition, with the Reallotgem program or also with suitable subscriptions with the Agency of the Habitatage of Catalonia, with assigned habitats for financial entities, of which we have three_ thousand compromised habitats. We talked about it, and we agree. At this point we also agree with Raúl and with you. In short, real and effective measures, knowing that with the tools that we probably have, we find far from what we would need – as Ferran Roquer said – or we would really like, yearning for a Catalan republic that guarantees the same rights and opportunities to all citizens – the same rights and opportunities to all citizens. We invite them, therefore, to help us, also from you have influence, on such important issues as – it has been said before – the transfer of the management of the single box to the minimum vital with guaranteed income or the state housing plan. I would like to say..., in the wake of the management of the vital minimum ingredient is very important a fefactory compromise that an effective presupposition must come – a part that we have not just collared and also flies over a little bit of this young man. "Sense of country means, therefore, this, that we remarry together – with you, too – because the Government of Catalonia has all the necessary resources. The situation in this country does not deserve to be wasted in time or put on stage. And, therefore, we ask that we all walk together to ensure strong, efficient and well-coordinated health, social and education systems that keep the person in the centre and guarantee – once again, I say – everyone's rights at all stages of life. In any case, we can share the orientation of this young man – I think we agree on many things – but, in any case, we have been able to reach an agreement on a substantial part of points. And, for what it does to the rest, we put them in place to negotiate constructively and loyally assumptions and bills, which is how we will manage to face up to the country's pending challenges and in favour of citizenship. Regarding the points of the motion, the announcements that we will abstain at point 5 and vote against in points 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9, 16 and 21, but we will agree and vote together in fourteen of the twenty-three proposals. I think it's a good step. We also appreciate the collaboration and commitment that we have received. And above all, let's get to work because we still don't have the chance to wake up, so we have the opportunity to do so, and always in the midst of the city of all of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.262.0	For the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has now the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.263.0	Thank you, President. The illness of social services and services in Catalonia is not random, it is not a question that we have found ourselves after the pandemic. The convergent sector, which today leads the Council, has been the major driver of this country's retail trade and the name given to the same third sector "lost decade in terms of service to people. Our reviews have gone on to build on commitments that have already been made in previous legislatures. We are not signing anything that is not a long-standing claim by entities and social sectors and collections and movements. But, unfortunately, they didn't get along. At any rate, we share this young man's experience, and we still hope that the program contract will be completed with the municipalities, that the new portfolio of social services that has been frozen for years will also advance... But in any case, we wanted to improve this proposal. And, concrete points, because there are many... First of all, one of our discussions has gone to add the intercultural perspective of gender and childhood to the situation in which we are. We cannot allow reports of the social situation in Catalonia without having these perspectives. The unique processing of guaranteed income from citizenship and the vital minimum income..., okay, but we also take advantage of the request from the parliamentary groups that we are here to support the proposal to amend the law on guaranteed income, which was not only in the sense of expanding and coordinating the benefits, but also in reaching out to those who have to come and join forces against the poor child and help with housing. Let's also move forward that we will abstain in point 8, which speaks of concerting with at least two thousand nine residential places. And don't get us wrong: from Comú We may not be against creating these two thousand places; what we want is that it is a priority that these places are not private, not concerted, and that it is a priority, above all, the third sector. We cannot afford not to take advantage of every opportunity because the presuppostary efforts create new public places. And, for what he does at point 21, on the loan to young people to buy piss, this week..., in fact, it seems to me that a couple of days ago there was a tweet from the Government of Catalonia saying: "You're young and you want to be independent? First you have to sort if you want to buy or lodge. Ladies and gentlemen, with a forty per cent youthful trek, "are we really thinking that we have to sort out if we want to buy or lodge? At the time we have the market right now, I'm sure we're thinking that this is a tria that young people have to do, when young people, more, when they work normally they're pre-characterized? I think we might need a GPS to get closer to the young people's reality. And here, from In Comú We can obviously share this position, which we have consulted with the National Council of Youth and Youth Collections: we will position ourselves in control of these policies of promotion of purchase, more than they generate more debts to young people, as we understand that all resources should, obviously, be allocated to the creation of a public housing park – these 1,000_millions that there is in one of the government agreements that the President has invested. What we need to promote – and we will insist on this – is the creation of a public housing park, and, if not, also to make policies that are applicable to high-voltage areas and that are addressed to young people who may really need them. At all times, this has not been possible to deal with it or materialize it in this proposal, and we will stand against this point. As always, we are available to work from the Social Rights Commission and, above all, from the hands of the territories on this line to move forward because the social situation in Catalonia is improving urgently.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.264.0	I, for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.265.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we come here, it seems, to debate the PSC's election program in social matters, a young man who has everything. Tea, because no one gets bored, twenty-three points, diverse and diverse, as if it were a baser. The first thing I would like to say is precisely the format of the motion. It is important, when we want to deal with a concrete issue, to deepen it, to work it in depth; because, if not, what happens is that we have headlines that are very soft, but that do not allow us to position ourselves concretely and that do not advance or propose anything more than headlines. So it's been hard for us to find acclaims at many of the points we've made... we've tried, with your company, in Raúl..., acclaims of points that were not developed or that were miswritten or that were simply intended, but didn't develop this measure, and it wasn't possible either. Therefore, our voting responses at these points will be diverse: some in favour, some abstentions and some against. Of course we are in favour of a report on the social situation in Catalonia. It's important, obviously, to have data that allows us to work, and writing data... a little more digestible, beyond what can be a memory of action. We also agree to increase the index of Catalonia's sufficiency income in this five-per-cent; more than anything else because, as we have already added to this theme, it was incorporated into the assumptions of 2020 that we have extended in this 2021. With regard to the unique processing of guaranteed citizenship income and vital minimum income, our bet is universal basic income, and that is why we will work. Still, it obviously makes it very easy to do a unique processing, whenever this unique processing is at home and not giving it, in this case, to the Spanish State. In this case, as our question has not been accepted in this sense and we see it peril..., the loss of management of guaranteed income from citizenship, so obviously we will vote against it. On reviewing the portfolio of economic services, obviously, very well agreed; review everything that follows plans, agencies or including measures that have been approved, but that do not apply. Therefore, in applying as I am reviewing in this sense, we agree. Urgently reduce the long list of waits. Very well; but how is it materialistic, that? Can we dig a little deeper into how, in what concrete measures do you think this list is duplicated? Because with a point of four lines it is difficult to position. Still, with this headline writing, so, of course, we're in favour of it. Illustrate the PIA..., well, we will abstain, because, another time, with a simple and short holder is not developed with this measure in effect. Just like reversing privatization, which... with this twenty-and-five-per-cent. We proposed that it be explained that a twenty-i-five_per_cent was a start to total management and ownership, one hundred_per_per_cent public. This item is not accepted. And so, obviously, if we just have to stay with twenty-five percent ownership and management and public supply, we seem to be insufficient, and therefore we will abstain. Because to whom it seemed sufficient a twenty-five per cent, therefore, that he agreed. Point 8: We are absolutely against it, because in everything that is public-private concertation without more, without a realization, we are absolutely against it. Just as the commission for the fight against the poor child; we are not against the fight against the poor child, but we are going to create organs while we are asking in another point to review plans, review organs and review things that do not work, so we find it incongruent. With regard to matching services, reviewing protocols, articulating a public system... so, yes, of course, in a headline we can agree. Then, concrete things that could not be done, such as the digital education plan and, above all, specifically, sign with local administrations an economic increase of forty_per_cent, when it is not specified and we have not been able to explain why this forty_per_cent... Why is it a forty and not a thirty or a sixty? What's the documentation, the argumentary...? What's behind this cup? They haven't been able to explain it to us. And, then, other measures – and I finish – in which we will vote against, because they are either measures that are already like that – such as the issue of the functioning of the SOC on work itineraries; returnable aids, of course, are almost an insult to young people – or things that are already voted on – such as the topic of the thousand habitats as measured by rock, which has already been approved in previous motions. A little more concrete would make it easier for everyone. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.266.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.267.0	Well, thank you, President. It is obvious that it is materially impossible to speak with the calm that the twenty-three points presented by this motion on the social situation deserve. Since VOX's political approach is based on common sense and is not based on the application of anti-democratic sanitary cords, nor do we criminalize ideas depending on who defends them, we will vote on some of the issues in favour. This is what I have just said because... last week, during the Research and University Commission, the Socialists and Units Group for Advanced voted against the ideological and political neutrality of the university as an institution, and for the fact that it presented it, in a motion for a resolution, VOX. It's good to know, isn't it? Others of the proposals, because of their lack of technical precision or because we are frontally opposed to what they propose, will receive our vote against. Of course, we think it is reasonable to update the portfolio of social and health services; improve the protocols so that the aid reaches the citizens first; that the administrations comply with their competences; that these matters are prioritized, and that the beneficiaries are especially the most disadvantaged families – there would be more missing. We understand that the public administration must regulate certain aspects and help those who have fallen behind. Of course, it is necessary to help those who have been beaten by the misfortunes of life, but this does not mean that State dependence must be made a way of life. Of course, we are in favour of more senior residences and better benefits for people with disabilities. And to fight high child poverty; it is our priority. It is not a receipt that more than seventy-thousand children, according to the Generalitat itself, do not have access to sufficient food; that this sad circumstance be given in Catalonia while other budget items are allocated to things like..., for example, 110_million to promote or normalize Catalan, or 240_million to TV3, which we believe they do not deserve, these people who are in this situation. Having said that, it gives us the feeling that the PSC has presented in the text of the motion objectives put to the capon, that is, forced. Without planning, order and economic memory, talking about two_thousand squares, for example, or a thousand dwellings is not very rigorous. Not that we dislike these issues, but eleven of VOX we like to vote with criteria. On the other hand, it seems to us a somewhat hypocritical and somewhat dishonest approach that the Socialist Party, which presides over the Spanish Government, gives lessons in this area. They have not met the promised minimum vital income nor are they carrying out proper management of dependency benefits. I'm thinking about the advice I sell, which I don't have. Okay, three last brushstrokes and we're done. We miss that they do not have the private sector in Catalonia; there are excellent residential and health companies. Ladies and gentlemen, the public sector can be strengthened and, at the same time, working with private operators, there is no problem. In addition to compatible, it is desirable. That's what makes modern societies. Your neo-Marxist postulates don't blind them, please. Second brushstroke: we are opposed to the creation of new chiringuitos, entities and various commissioners. We think that there is bureaucracy, there are plans, and that what we need is precisely execution and investment. And finally, VOX defends the family. We do not understand, therefore, that they raise a motion of these characteristics without measures to support birth. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.268.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Deputy Joan García has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.269.0	President, Members, Members, Councillor... We have a broad, quite diverse motion in many respects, and it somewhat replicates what we already have in attendance with the Councillor, in this case, because, in the form of proposals from the Socialist Party, many of them too – as Mrs Granados has said, and I think it is good and consistent to say so – have been approved in other legislatures or have been presented in some way, even if they have not been approved, with which we repeat proposals and measures, many of them tabled by Ciutadans, by my colleague Naomi de la Calle, at other periods, in other legislatures. For us really this situation of repeating proposals, of bringing them here, of discussing them and of not implementing them..., for me, at least, and for us, for our group, is the first of the mistakes. But it is true that, again, I believe that many of them will be able to support them, although I will now comment on some of the changes that..., or the positions that differ from the affirmative or the approval of those proposed by the PSC..., well, I believe that, to a large extent, who will not agree with any of the measures that we see here? But it is true that these measures, which we have been defending for many years, are the result of a catastrophic situation of our own, at least of our social protection system and, above all, of our society in general. And it is curious, because, moreover, this has occurred in a period of economic improvement. True, there has been a period of economic improvement in recent years, just before the pandemic, which we have not been able to take advantage of for some reason. And I think that, even if we then listen to Mr. Roquer saying that it is all the fault of the deficit and of everything that is beyond the Ebre, following the doctrines of Mr. Canadell, or even to Esquerra Republicana, who seems to say it, or not, but if not, it is the fault of the pandemic – it is always someone's fault –, what is true is that there has been inaction. And what we have in Catalonia, then, is..., the data are chilling, and it is evident: 2_million Catalans at risk of poverty – it has been said here. I also believe that it is a very serious matter that there are not only social, but also territorial, differences in living standards and the need for social protection that exists within Catalonia; there is no need to move us throughout Spain, but within Catalonia there are great differences, even in the same cities. Barcelona is a clear example of this, but in the metropolitan area we find abismal differences. I am from a region, the West Valley, which has the lowest per capita income, which is Badia del Vallés, and the highest income, which is Matadepera. With that we have said practically everything. More than a third of our children at risk of poverty; this is a figure from the unions of the other day, when we came to explain the report on childhood, the worst, the worst figure in the last ten years. Over the past ten years, it is clear that poverty rates have been terrible. And above all, data that, since I have this moment to talk about other topics, I would like to claim. I think that in childhood there is a very serious fact, that the other day I also commented on it in the committee, as is the low level of family care for those children who have no family. The other day in the commission itself it was spoken: only one fourteen_per_cent of our childhood is in foster care. I propose here – and I use this moment precisely for that – that we reach an agreement, that we agree on measures not to do so, because it cannot be that we have, for example, 129 children under six years of age in reception centres, for giving a figure. I am running out of time, because, of course, this motion would give much more. I do complain about the inaction of this government. He has not been able to update the service portfolio since 2011. It has not deployed some laws, such as the Children's Act itself, which deals precisely with these issues of family care. We will vote yes to a large part of the motion, because we share some points in a way I think appropriate. Some of the amendments that have been accepted by the PSC have therefore reduced their ambition, and we may abstain in some of them. But, well, I think it's always interesting to bring these issues to Parliament, even if it's the last motion – as I told you, Mrs Granados, there was no one to raise it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.270.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.271.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that other companies have already said this in previous interventions; rather than a young woman with concrete proposals, it seems more like the copy-paste of an election program, doesn't it? , of his election program in social matters. And that makes it difficult to dig deeper or to make a more concrete debate about the points they present. Nevertheless, we would vote in favour of most of the points. And I'm already taking this opportunity to announce that we're calling for a separate vote in four points, which is 7, 9, 21 and 23, that we're going to vote against it. And I'll take advantage of this intervention to make a speech about social matters a little to make a rest and some points of some of the concrete points they have presented, right? You present a proposal that is to present a report on the social situation of Catalonia with a view to childhood, gender and intercultural. I'll tell you what, I'll vote for it. We therefore believe that it is important that data from the third sector be incorporated here and that we do not limit ourselves to three perspectives. I believe that we also extend the prospects to people with disabilities, vulnerable people, large people, etc. They're talking about increasing Catalonia's sufficiency income index. Yeah, sense of doubt, too much for that. It's been frozen for years, and I think if there's a time to grow, it's now. They're talking about designing the unique processing of guaranteed citizenship income and vital minimum income. Also, very much in favour. It is essential to agile and remove a lot of bureaucracy in these administered procedures. In fact, it's been a year since the vital minimum income came into effect and only about seven percent of the families they have right to perceive have been able to collect, and so it's obvious that we have a lot of bureaucracy. And I also think I need to strengthen the communication and information channels of how to process it. They are talking about reversing the privatization of medical care in Catalan residential centers. No, I'm telling you, I'm not going to vote in favour of this. I am a firm advocate of public-private collaboration. The private sector is always an ally, we don't have to criminalize it. And I think this proposal doesn't lead us to a good path, I think it makes us weaker. They talk about creating the commission for the struggle against the poor child in Catalonia. No, we won't vote for them either. There is already a national plan, which, in fact, has no resources. With resources from the national plan and we are not creating more bureaucracy and more agencies. They are talking about equipping the social benefits that depend on the Catalonian Government of the monomarental and nombroses families. I understand that single parents too. I don't know if they've done it expressly, it's a mistake, it's an inclusive language – because I'm already losing myself – or it's just that they simply shut down those families where there's only one parent who's the father. I understand that it is not, that it is not the will, and, therefore, as a gift of good faith, we will also vote for it. They talk about articulating a public system that guarantees access to education for all children and adolescents. We will vote in favour of this. But I also say to them: do not exclude public-private collaboration, which also does a great service. They're talking about securing food for 365 days of the year. Yes, sense of doubt, very much in favour. This must be coordinated, however, with the assemblies. We've seen this at the Barcelona City Council; there's been a lot of trouble this year with this. And that we didn't happen again that you were guaranteed these coin cards for the month of August past, and on July 31st, therefore, it was decided that they were empty, these coin cards. We can't afford this: it can't happen again or it's acceptable. They talk about following the accelerated deployment of the digital education platform in high and maximum complexity centers. Yes, of course, but we have to... Alert, attention – we told the committee – with the covert detail with the new review of the high complexities of the centers. Finally – and I finish – to put on the way help for young people to acquire a ‘living place'. Here we'll tell them that, as they put it here, no, absolutely. They put in some abusive conditions that... nor the benches in their better times. And I remind you that at the Barcelona Assembly you voted us not to a proposal for help in acquiring young people's lives. They're talking about enabling a call for help. Yes, very much in favour, but don't make it concrete. And, finally, they talk about getting by different lives, including buying, in a year thousand habitats. I'm sorry, we'll vote no, because these different lives don't exactly enlighten me how they think they'll get these lives. I, see the housing policy that is brought to the Barcelona Assembly, where you govern, therefore, will allow me here to good faith not to apply it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.272.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Eva Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.273.0	Ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Members of Parliament who support the Government, I don't know if they like our social welfare plan; the problem is that we can't discuss theirs, because they don't have them. And that's the point. [[Greetings.]] And that's the question. I mean, of all the motions that have seen each other today and perhaps many of the debates that have taken place in this Parliament, perhaps there is no way that you are as well-functioning as the motion that we are presenting today. The councilwoman has the floor because Congressman Moreno has arrived, and we will transfer them to all Members of the Chamber. This motion is worth 1,400_million euros, yes; 900 are covid funds, those transferred by the Government of the State; 414,5 are government-friendly funds coming from the departments of Social Rights, Education, Business and Work, and 250 are state funds. I mean, they do, they have the economic memory, it's all quantified. And here the issue is that President Aragonès said he would make a social rescue plan, and there is no social rescue plan, and what is being debated in Parliament today is that of the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. Mr. Roquer, and the mantra of the spoli... that Mr. Aragonès goes to meetings where it's about resources. Dependence. The government of Pedro Sánchez has made a platoon of €600_million. Education. The government of Pedro Sánchez, in Catalonia... : 192_million euros in digitalization in education themes. Mr. Roquer, no one goes to a residence if they don't want to. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sure. So that's why we say we speed up the PIAs and people can decide. Because we have five-thousand empty and dissipate-thousand people who need a plaza waiting for a plaza. And that's why we say it. And, listen, I, the moral superiority of those who have brought us here approving all the assumptions of the independent governments will not comment on it. [[Greetings.]] And if rigour and good practices are to come from VOX and CUP. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So we're tied up. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.274.0	Yes, ma'am Vilalta. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.275.0	Yes, President. To ask for a separate vote. [[Pause.]] Point 2, point 3, point 5, point 6 and points 7, 8, 9, 16 and 21. The 5th would be separate, and the rest would be able to vote together. Thank you. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.276.0	Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.277.0	Yeah. In our case, only on the 8th and 21st, he asked for a separate vote, but we could not vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.278.0	Separated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.279.0	The 8 for one side and the 21 for the other. [[Basha Changue Canalejo asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.280.0	Mrs. Changue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.281.0	Yeah. In our case we want, well, to ask many separate points. [[The speaker and the president are laughing.]] That's a lot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.282.0	I'm noticing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.283.0	Come on. For a band, l'1, the 2, the 4, the 5, the 10, l'11, the 12, the 13, the 14 and the 17, they could go together. For another band, the 3, the 8, the 9, the 21, the 22 and the 23, they could also go together. And the rest, they can go together. [[relays]] But if I want to specify which ones... maybe we've all lost. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.284.0	Yes, Mrs. Parera – that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.285.0	I don't know if I've told them before, but I don't know... if you need me to ask them again...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.286.0	No, I've written it down already, when he said it during the... [[relays]] And I wrote it down when I gave it during the second intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.287.0	All right. [[relays]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.288.0	Yes, Mr. García and Mr. Gallego. He had first asked for the word, but you got up. Say'm, Mr. García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.289.0	We will call on 7, 9, 15 and 21, which is that they could vote together. It won't do any good, but well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.290.0	No, because... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Gallego?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.291.0	We call for a separate vote from 11 to 15. They could vote together 17, 22; from 2 to 6 also together, 8, 16 and 18. And the rest, boat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-22-1003.292.0	Well, they're only alive – I'm telling you – points 13 and 14. Therefore, we shall all vote separately, and we shall vote on points 13 and 14 together. So let's start the vote. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 did not approve, with 58 votes in favour, 64 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3 was not approved, with 49 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4 has been approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has received 58 votes in favour and 75 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has received 49 votes in favour, 64 against and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has received 41 votes in favour, 78 against and 14 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8 did not approve, with 41 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 19 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9 did not approve, with 41 votes in favour, 87 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved, with 122 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11 was approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12 has been approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 14 abstentions. We're voting point number 16. The vote begins. Point 16_has received 49 votes in favour, 64 against and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number 17. The vote begins. Point 17 has been approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting point 18 now. The vote begins. Point 18 was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number 19. The vote begins. Point 19 was approved, with 113 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point 20 now. The vote begins. Point 20_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour, 11 against and 9 abstentions. The vote on item 21 begins. The vote begins. Point 21_has been rejected, with 33 votes in favour, 95 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number 22. The vote begins. Point 22_was approved, with 123 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 1 abstention. We're voting point number 23. The vote begins. Point 23 was approved, with 110 votes in favour and 23 votes against. And finally, we vote together on the two last points, 13 and 14. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 132 votes in favour. And after this three-day plenary, now yes, let's raise the session.
