ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. Before initiating the control session, I would like to say that the Government has informed all parliamentary groups and has requested that the question to the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the incorporation of health personnel into the health care system may be substantiated as the last question to the Government. And, as all groups have expressed their compliance with this change, if there is no objection, Question No 4, therefore, will be substantiated at the end, after Question No 14. [[Pause.]] [[Ask the Government about the managements it has had in the end in relation to the situation of the company Mahle, Vilanova and the Geltrú (Garraf)]] [[310-00153/13]] Let us begin with the question to the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the management of the Garraf in relation to the situation of the company Mahle, Vilanova and the Geltrú. The question is posed by Mr Juan Luis Ruiz of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Torrent... Representatives of the workers and workers of the company Mahle that today you accompany us, all our support and all our solidarity before the situation that you are patenting. And I think I speak on behalf of everyone and every member of this plenary. Counselor, this question is not taken at all with the will to tax the work of your department. Absolutely, it's not, really. We just want to put this situation on the government's political agenda, which I'm sure is already that, and also make this conflict visible, as the representatives of the workers and the workers have asked us. In fact, it's been months since this situation came to light. In fact, the workers and the workers there made it to the Department of Work. We ourselves, this parliamentary group, also did, after a meeting that we held my partner Pol Gibert and myself with the representatives of the workers and the workers, already the month of April. Keep it up, Counselor, we're in your mood for everything that we can be useful. So I said it the same day that this conflict was publicized, and now I'm going back to say it: count with us. In fact, both our president, in Salvador Illa, as our spokesman, Alicia Romero, have already done various managements. We have spoken to the Secretary General of Industry of the Government of Spain, and we are also aware of the management of the company. And we also intend to bring this conflict to other institutions, don't we? And we are concerned, Mr. Counselor, with contradictory and unfeeling information that the company is moving to the workers and the workers, aren't we? This first had to be a total tank, now it seems to be a partial tank, in which..., maybe a small part of the production is left without knowing exactly why or for how long, right? Therefore, we ask you, Mr. Counsellor, that I take this subject in the first person, because we cannot afford to let the country lose more industrial fabric. And, as I said, you count on us in everything you consider. And, in any case, the formal question, without wanting to tax it, I say, is... the management that its department had to finish on this issue. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.3.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.4.0	Thank you, President, and good morning. And thank you, Congressman, for all of you and your offer. Certainly, in this setting and a question like Mahle's to Vilanova and the Geltrú, it is good to show that we are united with the Parliament of Catalonia and that there are no cracks from the point of view of defending the rights of workers, workers and places of work, essential for a region like the Garraf and the country's border. That said, the first message is to support 345 workers and their families, affected by this decision; the support on behalf of the Government of the Generality and also the commitment to work for solutions, alternatives that allow finding the best solution to this situation. Since the news of the lockout was heard, since it was made public on November 17, we have been speaking to the representatives of the workers and to the direction of the company – both the local direction and the corporate direction – and we have been transmitting what was the government's intention of the Government of Catalonia, which is nothing but to work for solutions and offer us to mediate. That said, we also have to say that we cannot be aware of the lockdown of a factory like Mahle, Vilanova and Geltrú, with only forty-four hours of anticipation. And, above all, with a cessation plan for only two months after this announcement. Thus, there is no social responsibility for companies, social responsibility for workers and workers, for the territory and institutions of the country. We demand that this social responsibility be exercised. And, in fact, we have requested, we have asked the company to reconsider its decision. And, as I said before, we've offered mediation, because we think it's what we need to do. We must be on the side of workers and workers, and we must seek, therefore, not to lose industrial fabric, not to lose strength, from this point of view. I mean, we haven't actually talked many times, Congressman, here in Parliament – that the automotive sector is patenting transition costs to electromobility, huh? The step from combustion to electromobility is generating very obvious transition costs, huh? And from this point of view, it is important that we speak to the Parliament of Catalonia not only when there is a labour dispute of these characteristics, but also with a more forward-looking view, with a more holistic view, to say the least, of this situation. It's important that they work. That's why we created the Transition Office... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.5.0	Counselor... his time has run out. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the status of the preliminary draft law on prevention and management of waste and efficient use of Catalonia's resources]] [[310-00154/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the situation of the preliminary draft law on prevention and management of waste and efficient use of resources in Catalonia. The question is posed by Mrs Silvia Paneque, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.6.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The 13th of July you announced the future law of residue. A few months ago, on 3 November, we were surprised by the announcement of a moratorium on the opening of new installations, expansions of energy recovery plants and a plan to shut down and dismantle existing ones. One week later, we checked how he introduced this mortuary, through the back door, with the accompanying law. I have to tell him that he surprised us less; I don't know if we can say the same as his governing partners. In any case, two questions. The first: if at these times the twenty_per_cent of residues go to valorization plants and thirty-five_per_cent to mouthpieces, with this dismantling you are proposing us more than half of the vagina residues to mouthpieces? And a second, the elbow proof. In Girona we are four years old with the energy valorization plant closed. What are the consequences? Residues of accumulators and a 14_per_cent increase in the scavenging rate in the city and city. This inversion of 36_million euros and 45_million euros to the Tarragona plant..., are they compromised with this proposed dismantling and moratorium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.7.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all of you, deputies, deputies. Mrs Paneque, you know that one of the great reptes that we have as the country in environmental matters, sense of doubt, is the management of waste. Tell him that, for this very reason, for all that you ask me, we are working intensively on the draft law of prevention and waste management, which we want to bring to this Parliament before the end of 2022.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.9.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member, Silvia Paneque, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.10.0	Counsel, I insist: the European Directive 851, of 2018, talks about dimensioning the infrastructures necessary for the management of waste following a hierarchy that prioritizes prevention, reuse, recycling and, finally, valorization – including energy valorization; underneath this, and as the last option, the shutters. Therefore, the European directive prioritises energy value for feeders. It is false that the directive, as you maintain, marks the closure of energy valorization plants. And you start the house for the roof again, and instead of acting like a mouthpiece, it acts against energy valorization plants. Which, by the way, you have announced a Vacamorta buiding plan, with a feeling of more than five years old, of confinement. They have announced packages of twenty-thousand in twenty-thousand, every 194 days. That's... I'm telling you, it's seventy-nine years, counselor; seventy-nine years for Vacamorta's buffooner. And, you, thinking and announcing moratoria. If you want to complete the European objectives of depositing the maximum of the de_per_cent of the generated residues placed in the mouthpiece, the moratorium is not the way. Please, leave the moratoria and start engines. That she hasn't been a Climate Action Advisor for six months, and she's already offered us two moratoria: one in renewables, that we'll talk about this late, and one in effect and real with energy valorization plants... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.11.0	To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.12.0	Miri, Congresswoman, we want to do the girls' thing. And what we want to do, basically, is dialogue. And we want to do it to move forward, sense of doubt, quick and better. What are we doing now? From the outset, one thing we consider important, which is to listen absolutely to everyone: to listen to entities, organizations, businesses. We want to listen to everyone. And, in fact, I told him that we wanted to bring the law to this country's Parliament to make a sincere and meaningful debate with parliamentary groups, huh? Basically, because this law, as you say, adapts to European directives, mainly, but also – and very important to us – because above all you understand the way we have to hear waste management, at least until today, huh? For example, I give you two examples. [[For technical reasons, a few words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... prevention and, obviously, the circular economy – important. But for all this we do not expect the law, because obviously, as you say, there are things that are in a hurry. Miri, in these moments we are allocating 22_millions to the promotion of selective municipal gathering. In these moments..., 1_million, too, for menstruation without residue, in the framework of the national strategy of sexual and reproductive rights. We've obviously joined each other for what he does to the economy... [[For technical reasons, a few words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... in the week of the Circular Economy Hostpot Catalonia 2021, a leading event in circular economy at European level, showing many initiatives, also from our country, as well as 3,7_million euros for the promotion of circular economy. A call for private gatherings for an asbestos-free Catalonia. And all this is done from one country to another... you know perfectly well that we are an example in waste management and also in environmental taxation, with a system of good canons that were born and that continue to have a broad political, social, business and municipal consensus. What he asks is that the government of the PSOE, which is processing the waste law, please, under the prism of harmonising..., that what you do not do is re-centralize and that we do not lose in this country this canon, which has so far made us a great country. And with the law, obviously, it doesn't fall apart, that all this will be resolved quickly and effectively. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.13.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the deployment of human and material resources from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to Badalona. [[Ask the Government about the deployment of human and material resources from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to Badalona]] [[310-00155/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Helena Bayo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.14.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. What is the government's understanding of the deployment of human and material resources of the Squad Coast to the city of Badalona?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.15.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.16.0	President... Congresswoman, the capture is the same as throughout the country, which is the increase in the effectiveness of the Squad Coast, the equipping of means and the renewal of the material to be able to do more and better work in the service of rights and freedoms, which is the object of the Squad Coast.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.17.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Helena Bayo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.18.0	Counselor, thank you for your answer. The Badalona Police Base Area serves the towns of Badalona and Sant Adrià del Besòs, that is, more than 250,000 people. They get about two thousand tricks a month. The public service that the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra provides to the city is excellent, but Badalona is a great city, a great city, and as such requires attention and a provision of material and human resources to cover its needs. Allow me, therefore, that, to the detriment of other cities and municipalities, I was interested in our police base area. Badalona's venerable entities are demanding more resources, more security, and I would like to ask for them to be realized. I would like to know how much effect it has planned to target Badalona, what is the deployment schedule of nine police units and if the Department contemplates the possibility of generating new infrastructures of the Cos de Mosso d'Esquadra to the city. I already know that you, both in the plenary and in the Internal Committee and in various public acts – and now you have expressed the intention of your department to increase and rejoin the mobile park of Mossos d'Esquadra and to provide it with more resources throughout the territory. Badalona also needs a suitable mobile park, both for what it does to the name of vehicles and for what it does to its status of services and updates. They also ask for it, so how many vehicles will arrive in the city and when. For the current municipal government, security is one of the priority axes of work, but it must be that its government, its council, you, too, are involved, as security is basically of its competence. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.19.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.20.0	President, Congresswoman... effectively, it's our competence, because effectively this government wants them all. And it's also the competence of gatherings. That's why we... [[For technical reasons, some words of the advisor's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...a relationship with the gatherings. And from here, naturally, as I have already done, I offer myself to the Badalona Assembly to follow the coordination and joint work between the Squad Coast and the local police. A 15_per_cent more; a 15_per_cent more effective, the commissioner of the ABP of Badalona in the two later years – more effective, as we are doing to Badalona and as we are doing at the joint of the body. And fourteen vehicles have also been incorporated in these last months. We're talking about bidding and we're already buying four hundred vehicles the previous year – four hundred, these, which are coming – and we'll bid more than four hundred the year you see. This is our understanding: media, resources, and coordination with gatherings, because this is the best way to serve citizens. And that has to be put into practice. This is why we have put forward a presumption that an increase of almost twenty per cent in the resources of Chapter 2 to Chapter 8 for the Interior Councillor and that therefore directly affects the Directorate General of Police and Staff. And also an increase of 840 effect so that we can distribute them to the conjunct of the territory so that we can guarantee the rights and freedoms of the people, of the citizens and the citizens. And the best way is to mediate the Squad Ways so that we can do more and better this work of proximity and that security is not only a privilege of the most favored. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.21.0	As soon as the councillor has arrived, we'll keep the order in order. [[Ask the Government about the incorporation of health personnel into the health care system]] [[310-00144/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the incorporation of health personnel into the health system. The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.22.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Argimon, do you condemn the statement that Platforma per la Llengua has made to the six hundred nurses who came from Andalusia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.23.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.24.0	President... good day, deputies, deputies. Mrs Lorena Roldán, obviously everyone is very welcome to Catalonia – everyone is very welcome to Catalonia – and we would still like to see more and more people come. In fact, we are a Catalonia that attracts talent, that attracts talent in the training period. And in no time – in no moment – the language serves neither to, in any way, discriminate or to prevent people from coming to our home.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.25.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.26.0	Thank you. Counselor, you have missed a golden opportunity to condemn this marking of Platform for Language. A few days ago you yourself at the Salvation Commission celebrated the arrival of these health professionals who come to reinforce the staff that is exhausted after five waves of contagion. And, given the difficulty in filling vacancies, you told us that we wish we could make Catalonia an attractive destination for those who want to stay. I'm actually telling you that it's difficult, Mr. Argimon, especially after seeing, I insist, this reception of Platform for Language to these six hundred nurses coming from Andalusia. Platform for Language, which is that Hispanic, para-governmental entity, which is subsidized with millions of euros to be the hooligans of Catalan. I very much doubt that someone who moves nine hundred miles from his home, who comes to work in a collapsed health system that is about to cross the sixth wave, wants to stay, I insist, with such reception, marked by that fanaticism of Platforma per la Llengua that comes into bloom every time someone speaks Spanish. They want to ban it in school, they want to ban it in the yard, they want to ban it in restaurants, and now they want to ban it in the doctor too. It's just, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you And what I don't even want to think about is whether it also influences those professionals to come precisely from Andalusia, because we already know what the worst nationalism thinks about Andalusians. It was his greatest exponent, the father of the homeland, the adored leader, emblematic president – that Rahola would say –, head of the criminal organization Pujol-Ferrusola – that would say the National Audience –, who wrote: "The Andalusian man is not a coherent man; he is an anarchical man, he is a man destroyed, he is generally a man little made, a man who has been starving for hundreds of years and who lives in a state of ignorance and cultural, mental and spiritual misery. Look, those Andalusians have come here to decongest our health care system. They came to work as they did, and many others came from other parts of Spain when Catalonia was a host land and not this sectarian erial into which separatism has turned it. Fortunately, we are not all like Mr Pujol, and I want to take this opportunity today to welcome these professionals and all those who want to come here to Catalonia to work as they have always done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.27.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.28.0	Before I gave welcome to these people; I'm going back to give welcome, I'm going back to give them come from where they come. And, listen, the more people, the better. And, once in a while, we're not thrilled. And the citizenry will be delighted, and will be integrated. Because if you go to hospitals, to primary care centers, you'll see people from all walks of life – from all walks of life. I also came from outside; « from outside..., I speak from outside of Catalunya and from outside of Espanya. And that's what's normal: it's attracting talent, it's living, it's living. And the language has to serve us to live together – to live together – and not to face up to it. And, therefore, this is the ideal of Catalonia, this will follow the ideal of Catalonia. And I repeat: welcome all these people, welcome all these professionals and welcome all those who want to come. All of it. The more, the better. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.29.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the functioning of the information systems of the Generality. [[Ask the Government about the functioning of the information systems of the Generality]] [[310-00145/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.30.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Puignero, would you say that you are satisfied with the functioning of the Generality's IT systems?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.31.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.32.0	Yeah. From the Government of Catalonia we manage 1,800 applications daily. And, therefore, I am satisfied with the work done by the professionals of the Generality, and, obviously, always with the animum of improving every day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.33.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.34.0	Admirable expert, but this week, tanmateix, the Catalan digital republic has again made the ridiculous. For if the advisor Argimon does not have enough problems and enough curses to have to manage the pandemic with a Saturday and a spread and a government that each time assembles more to the « room of the Germans Marx, only the official nerd of this government, you, is unable to predict that if you tell the people that the certificate is lower, therefore the Catalans, good people as we are, we will massively lower it. You didn't know there were 7 million Catalans, Mr. Puignero? Can't count and put in the necessary means because a service as basic as My Greeting works? It does not have to be for lack of means, precisely, because you have long been given free bar of money to do what you do not do or to do what you should not do, such as now to put into orbit patriotic satellites that, hopefully, will only serve because they do business some businesses "unscathed" or like the least of Sant Cugat, your particular Houston. So look, Houston, we have a problem, and the problem is that every idea of a bomber you have costs us an eye of the face. Taking into account that the normal Catalans in the face only have two eyes, I always call it control, that put up with delirious expenses like the more than 7_million_i_mig of euros that claim that they cost us their flaming Institute of Space Studies of Catalonia. I didn't surprise him that we presented a statement to the presuppositions to eliminate this absurd game. I don't know if the commons have enough nostalgia for Soviet space adventures as to let them polish the catalans' tracks under false promises to send, I don't know, a goo of size to the Moon, but right now we have other priorities. It cannot be that the CTTI, its political game, takes 700_millions of the presupposition – twice as much as the presupposition of Culture – and serves no purpose. Mr Puigneró, you are an example of the worst policy that has been done and unfortunately it continues to be done in Catalonia, the three percent Catalonia, the Palau de la Music, the dark pharaonic spending – very dark –, with the arrogance of never being accountable, not even of results, and assuming that impunity has been done. They will then complain that the courts are acting and that they have to end up putting out of their pocket what they have so joyfully taken out of the pocket of others to play astronauts or hacking Catalonia whole, as they tried to do on the 17th. If it depends on us, not one more euro for your adventures – not one. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.35.0	To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputy, what this vice president will never do is disrespect the deputies of this chamber. I don't know what's wrong with me. [[Greetings.]] The term "nerd" I don't know if... maybe we should apply it to you, huh? In any case, look, let's just say that, beyond the demagogue that he does, I think that we should make more rigorous interventions. In the first place, look, the past diver, that there was certainly a flood of citizens who wanted to unload the covid certificate, I have to tell you that the app worked, because it was served... [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] I'm sorry, it was 360,000 certificates that day. And it is true that, by security, the system of ribs entered – and therefore, in a predictable way – so as to prevent itself against this type of allusion. What we have to keep very present is that until that day, 9 million certificates had been unloaded in Catalonia. And, therefore, no one could predict that many citizens..., that almost fifty per cent of the discharges that had already been produced would be produced again. And in any case, the system will respond, it will need 360,000 certificates. And, more than that, two million more have been served over the last five days. So what we can say is that the application worked, and obviously we reinforced it. But in any case, we are a government that is very clear that when it launches a policy like this so that we can safeguard the economy, in this case, from salvation..., therefore, to balance, and that when..., how do we have the figures that we have of this new wave, so that we do not go back to the way it happened in other waves. We are taking action, and therefore the information systems of the Generality will respond to these needs. Look, what you don't understand is that you make these speeches and then come here to the Catalonian Parliament to permanently detail the generality's technology assumptions. They don't get along. And, therefore, I hope that in the very presupposition that we are dealing with, there is not a single detail of the technology assumptions of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.37.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the detention protocol in prisons. [[Ask the Government about the containment protocol in prisons]] [[310-00149/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Montserrat Vinyets, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.38.0	Yeah. Good morning, President. Thank you. MPs and MPs... Councillor of Justice, has appeared to the communication media that you intend or are appreciating to modify Circular 2/2021 on mechanical containment in prisons, a circular that is in force since last May and that was done thanks to the work that we have to recognize from the former Councillor of Justice in the matter. As you know, counsel, the circular is dictated to take, to carry out all the female recommendations from international institutions, such as, for example, the Committee for the Prevention of Torture of the Council of Europe, or also those female recommendations from our home, such as, for example, girls for the Synod of Greuges and for different entities working for the respect of the human rights of prisoners from civil society. The recommendations ultimately have the will to meet the demands for respect for the life and physical and moral integrity of persons deprived of liberty. As long as we're carrying on this circular, it's a good tool, and the mechanical restraints at the prison facilities were reduced a little bit. That is why, Counselor, we have to be alerted when we have seen this information in the communication media. Counselor, you can't take steps back. This country must continue to advance towards a prison policy that is as secure as possible with the rights of the imprisoned population. Therefore, we would like to advise you to ratify your compromise with the need to keep Circular 2/2021 in force, and to continue to work because only the deprivation of freedom of walk and the rest of the rights of the imprisoned population continue to be guaranteed at the prison centres.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.39.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, Members... Thank you, Mrs Vinyets, for the question, because it gives us the opportunity to explain exactly what we are doing in the Catalan prison system, so oblivious in the last few years. And I'm talking about many years, not the last, recent ones. To begin with, we need to work to keep the best tools that guarantee the rights and rights of people taken and public servants working there. We want a model prison system – we have exclusive competence of our own – until now the only one in the whole of Spain, which has to allow us to have a guaranteed system in right and right. And, besides, I'm a model, I'm still a model. And that means constant evaluation and daytime. The circular of the containment measures implemented in the last compasses of the previous mandate, of the last legislature, what it has done has been, from the beginning..., to be reviewed, at the first moment, because there were many doubts of application. Therefore, the officials asked that they explain how certain actions were to be carried out. Moreover, in these six months that we are in the office and that we have visited all the centers and talked with all the professionals and with those who wanted to address each other personally, we have been able to see various things. First: effectively, the restraints have been reduced. Indeed, the question of the authority of public servants working in prisons has been raised. Moreover, they have increased the autolysis of prisoners, they have increased the barrages between the people taken, they have increased the assaults on the working people. It's obvious, Mrs. Vinyets, that all this doesn't work. And our obligation as presidents is to equip us with the best guaranteed tools in rights, in bonds, as I said, for people taken and for public servants. We're reviewing this circular. In no case is this circular derogated, because we are firmly compromised with the guarantees, as I said, of the phone rights of the servers..., of all people. Therefore, in no case will it be repealed, but we are immersed in a revision phase, because it is a circular that has a lot of door supports, but, in change, those who have to apply it and those who have to live it do not believe it. Bad circulation will be, if we don't have our own. Therefore, we are, as I said, at a stage of being able to review to improve, evaluate continuously, with the collaboration of people working in prisons and entities. And that's what we're doing in our own months, because what we want is to put up with any aggression cone in our prisons. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.41.0	To answer the question, has the word Ms. Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.42.0	Thank you. Counselor, I am pleased that you have explicitly stated that you will not repeal the circular. And in any case, I ask you that if you want to do some kind of review on the circular, listen, please, all entities working for respect for human rights before you approach... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.43.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the effects of the early retirement agreement on the future of the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra. [[Ask the Government about the effects of the early retirement agreement on the future of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00146/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Núria Picas, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.44.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs and MPs, counselor... Last week we were familiar with a lot of good news: Republican Left we got an agreement, and it's that the Squad Mosses can match the other security features, as is the case with Ertzaintza, in the matter of early retirement. A tape obtained and claimed for many years for the movement unions; a tape, therefore, that will allow the right to early retirement to members of the body at the age of sixty and that have cooked these thirty-five years of activity. That, from 2022. So... the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad S. Therefore, we take a step forward to equate the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's. At the same time, we will continue to work to achieve this same objective just for similar collections, as is the case with the Rural Agents' Cos, because we have also claimed it and are committed to it. I would like to point out that this early retirement agreement involves, at the same time, the rejuvenation of the body. And that seems to be beginning to happen with two commitments adopted in these past weeks. In the first place, the presuppositional endowment for this 2022 of the Department of Interior to incorporate us effectively – concretely, will incorporate 840 us into the Cos de Mossos. And, secondly, the agreement adopted at the Catalan Security Board last November, it was agreed to increase a new stride in the body's effectiveness template. For all this, counselor, our parliamentary group would like to know what the future of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra will be by agreeing on early retirement. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.45.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.46.0	President, Congresswoman... effectively, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is a discrimination, a discrimination from ugly many years. Because sometimes there are people who feel very, very, very strongly about the Squad Way, but for eleven years there has been very hard discrimination. Effectively, all security units are retired to the 60th, except the Navarra Foral Police and the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Therefore, it is a very positive result for the body and its agents, but also for all the citizens of Catalonia, because the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra was in a limited situation. And, as a consequence of this agreement and also of the enlargement to twenty-two thousand in the framework of the Security Board of Catalonia, which I celebrate the agreement that it has produced, the good will for all parts..., allows the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra not to be quenched. The time we had was that 2030 would have been divided by a thousand, with a thirty-per-cent..., a twenty-i-five, thirty-per-cent of the agents in the second activity, and that was unsustainable. Therefore, it is good news for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, for its agents, but also for the assembly of citizens and citizens of Catalonia. To keep a cop... what are you doing? So I can approach the generational replenishment. With this measure and the compromise to go increasing every year eight hundred agents, which will allow us these agreements, it is allowed to approach the generational relay and hold a police with forty_per_cent of the effect per under forty years. To feminize the thing and to make a more social police force and above all – and we talked about it before with regard to Badalona – closer, closer to the people. And we're holding back, naturally. For example, the Rural Agents' Cos, for which we are decisively betting, increasing one hundred bills each year to reach the eight-cents, deploying the professional career and also equipping them with media, and, naturally, fighting for a right they have, which is early retirement. And I'm sure in this fight we'll have the support of all the deputies and deputies of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.47.0	He asked the Government to reply in the plenary on the actions it would take in order to convert Catalonia into an asbestos-free country. [[Ask the Government about the long-term actions to convert Catalonia into an asbestos-free country]] [[310-00147/13]] The question is posed by Mr Juli Fernàndez of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.48.0	Thank you, President. Allow me to begin by confirming the commitment to HIV eradication and the fight against stigma and discrimination that still plague the people he has on World AIDS Day. Counselor Jordan, the asbestos and its removal are certainly one of the challenges that, since the ban, the year 2002, appears to be an objective so as to be able to avoid the harmful effects produced by the degradation of this material and the release of fibres that, when inhaled continuously, can produce very negative effects on salvation. The case of Badia del Vallès and asbestos is an extreme case. As all of you know, the municipality of Badia was built fifty years ago with fast-paced techniques and cheats, and that means dojo. Badia del Vallès has been an example of a venous struggle for social advancements, and, in the case of asbestos withdrawal, it has also been. His work, accompanied by the assembly and with the financing of the Generality's Department of Work, has allowed this July to have the map of the asbestos of Badia del Vallès, a map that has allowed us to know what is the reality of asbestos in this city. Highlight the collaboration of the eighty-four_percent of the communities that have participated in it. And the results were that the galleries presented a high index of degradation with fibre depletion. This diagnostic has allowed us to target the situation of degradation and the risk to public health that this situation may entail. This combination of factors, such as the massive construction that had taken place in Badia del Vallès – and cheap – its presence in everyday spaces such as galleries and its homogenous degradation, because it was built all at the same time, in two hundred buildings, makes it necessary to make decisions that put people's lives at the center, to make a triple transformation: the preservation of salvation, the dignification of the space and the fight of the stigma associated with Badia del Vallès. That is why, Counselor, we would like to know the details of the measures planned for their department so as to make an asbestos-free Badia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.49.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.50.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... let me start with a finding. In fact, living decently is not just having a basement – it is not just having a basement – but this, obviously, is still habitable. This dissipation, precisely, with the presence also of the President of the Generality, we were in Badia del Vallès and we were going to announce these 4_million_i_mig euros basically to dismantle, to remove asbestos from the two-hundred buildings, from all the buildings in Badia del Vallès that have this characteristic. The case of Badia del Vallès – you have explained it perfectly, because he knows it – is exceptional. We are talking about a municipality which grew up in the decade of the 1970s and which, moreover, was built massively and, moreover, in a more rapid way, using the fibrocement collected. This characteristic also makes it necessary to make an exception, as it cannot otherwise be, in this territory. Forty years later – you explained it too – degradation has been extreme, and here, therefore, the salvation of the living, obviously, plays an important role. In this case, the president of July also visited Badia, which is when he started working on this map, and we committed ourselves to donating solutions. We got to work from the first moment of the Department of Climate Action, but also from the Agency of Residues and also obviously from the Badia Assembly to find a solution, because this government – you also said – what you want to transform, what you want is to solve people's problems. And, in this sense, I want to do what I want to do too – you have done it, but... – is to thank and claim the struggle, the ongoing and enduring struggle of the comings and comings of Badia del Vallès, as an example, sense of doubt, of extremely collective organization, which has also made it possible that all that we are explaining today is a reality. To finish, tell them that what this government wants, what this council wants is nothing but Catalonia, as you said, is an asbestos-free country. And, for all this, in the band of Badia's action, what we want is to approve the national plan for the eradication of asbestos in our country. The action of Badia del Vallès, however, is a historical action and must serve, as it cannot otherwise be, as an example to end our country's assailant. That's the only way we can transform, that's the only way we can get our citizens to see better. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.51.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the concrete actions that would eventually take to promote the use of català. [[Asks the Government about the concrete actions that will take in the long run to promote the use of català]] [[310-00148/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Ana Balsera, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.52.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Consellera Garriga, the last few months have published several reports on the downward trend for what makes use and knowledge of Catalan language, a tool of cohesion and equal opportunities of our country. After the Supreme Court's ruling ratifying the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia on the twenty-five-per-cent of matters in castle, like Colomenca I want to refer to my city, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, the bressol of linguistic immersion, and to make an immense grace to all the Colomencan families, like my own, that with origins of different territories of Spain – such as Andalusia, Galicia, Extremadura – they fought, and many, because we can learn Catalan language; that they fought, and much, because we, their daughters and daughters, can study at school in Catalonia; that they fought because we, their daughters and daughters, speak together. Thanks to these families and thanks to a successful educational system, such as linguistic immersion. And it is that, without this educational model, many and many of us today would not speak Catalan. And, on the other hand, we also sent all the support to Valencian companies and companies, which we also knew at the end of last week the Supreme Court ruling rejecting the cassation appeal against the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of the Valencian Community, against the Office of Linguistic Rights of the Valencian Government. Let us celebrate, therefore, that some of the government has taken action. We recall that on October 26, the Government announced that it had met the Technical Committee on Language Policy with the aim of asking for updates on the state of the language. Also on November 4th, in a joint appearance with the Councillor of Education and you yourself, Councillor of Culture, present with these first data and a plan to increase the use of català to the educational centers, more than the compromise for a national pact for language, which will be an indispensable tool to protect, encourage and increase Catalan language in all sectors. For all this, the question would be how justice affects the strengthening of language and what we should expect from this new stage of language policy. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.53.0	To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.54.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Balsera, the Catalan language and the language normalization challenges are once again the focus of attention and action of this government, of the whole government. As you said just now, on October 26th what we did was to bring together another time the Technical Commission for Linguistic Policy, so that the cross-cutting policy in the promotion of catalá was reactivated by the involvement of all the members and all the departments of this government. A few days later, effectively, with Councillor Cambray we presented data indicating the downward trend of the Catalan language, and, so to reverse it, we also explained a plan to increase the use of the Catalan language to the educational centers. The Government is driving a new phase of language policy that aims at the full social normality of the Catalan language, as well as from the Aran to the Aran, and also at the promotion of the Catalan sign language. This new stage is characterized by a policy of consensus that must be implemented with the objective of a new national language pact – as you said now – with the objective..., and in the diagnosis of the actual situation of the use of Catalan and Arabic, to take into account the multilingual context in which the Catalan society is found and, above all, for the conflict in language matters. It is with consensus, rigour and objectivity that we can promote a real, realistic and effective language policy, and not let ourselves be watered down by the soroll of polemics or a heated conflict of interest in some sectors, which, unfortunately, we often see – today itself, in this chamber – nor do they find themselves in a sterile and counter-productive alarmism that leads to despondency. It is obvious – you said it yourself now – that the judicialization of language policy is not a good way for this consensus. On the contrary, it criminalizes a totally legal political action in favour of minority languages. And that should not be trumped up by the judiciary, either in Catalonia or in Valencia. Therefore, as we have said since the first moment, we are compromised with transparency and with the dialogue with all parties, entities and civil society, with the objective of being clear and working together. We are sure that this is exactly what is asking us for citizenship, and not conflictivity. And we have the extended hand to do it together with everyone; from politics, as always. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.55.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the communication to the school assembly to urge them to complete the Supreme Court's resolution with regard to the use of the castle in the classrooms. [[Ask the Government about the communication to the school assembly to urge them to complete the Supreme Court's resolution in relation to the use of the castle in the classrooms.]] [[310-00142/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.56.0	Yeah. Counselor, do you intend to abide by the Supreme Court's decision confirming the minimum of twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish in the classrooms of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.57.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.58.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... I'm happy because I've fully understood it. [[some applause]] – I understood it perfectly. I went... did you express yourself in the castle? [[Pause.]] I went to school with linguistic immersion in Catalan and I understood it perfectly. And do you know what's best? Let everyone understand it perfectly. Because what we do to our choices... what we do is that everyone comes up with knowledge in català and castella. Proud lies, VOX lords. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.59.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.60.0	Yeah. Mr. Counselor, you're a crime instigator. [[remorse of the voice]] , because it calls on the directors of educational institutions to commit a crime of disobedience, to fail to comply with the Supreme Court's ruling, which requires only a minimum of twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish language in the schools of Catalonia. That is, in practice, language and one more subject. You're an anti-pedagogue. They have not respected for years that Catalan children who have Spanish as their mother tongue can read, learn to read and write, in their mother tongue, Spanish, as recommended by all teachers to facilitate the first learning. You are a liberticide, because you do not respect the freedom of parents and educational institutions to have their own linguistic project. They continue to strive to impose immersion, which impoverishes students, while in other educational institutions they also learn in Spanish or English. You're an inquisitor. [[remorse of the voice]] , because he defends espionage in the courtyards, because he wants only Catalan to be spoken, and he pursues children. And it defends that teachers do not change their language to help children internalize concepts. And you are a hispanophobic, because it moves hatred to the language, also Catalan, as it is Spanish, which is the language of millions of Catalans, it is the language of more than 500_million people, and it is the common language of all Spaniards. Counselor, you will end up today, because you always said: « In Catalonia, in Catalan. From this parliamentary group we give it: to the classrooms, to freedom; to Catalonia, to Spanish and to Catalan. In Spain, when VOX governments, we will end the law of linguistic immersion that has allowed them to apply both the governments of the PSOE and the PP. And, Mr. González, Education Advisor, if you continue to do the same, we will take you to the courts by vocation, devotion and obligation. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.61.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.62.0	Thank you, President. That you tell me all these things so read [[remorse of the voice]] I think it's a good indicator that we're doing well, that the Education Department and this government are doing well. It's clearly a very good indicator. [[Greetings.]] And then, if I may... however, how can you have so much bar to put the word "freedom" in your mouth? Full of lies, full of lies! [[Greetings.]] It's a lot of bar and a lot of pins. Escort, you, lords of VOX, what you want... is that they are not located; plere plere, they are not located. The one they want... we're in the Parliament of Catalonia. It's a chamber of political representation, it's a chamber of debate, and what you want is that this was a court of law. But it's not, we have a Speaker of the Parliament, we have a President of the Government, we have advisors and advisors, and we have deputies and deputies. That's not the courts. You would want this to be the courts, with your friends who make decisions from the ignorance of reality, who make pedagogical and educational decisions. And that's not going to happen – that's not going to happen. And while you want this to be a court, we do what we do... democrats and Republicans trust people. Democrats and Republicans believe in people, we believe in our masters. And, therefore, as we believe in our masters – to devote oneself to education is the best that can be done in this life–, what we do is to reassure our masters. We won't pass them any kind of responsibility, like it can't be any other way, because that's also what I see coming out; what's saying is that he's uninformed. The learning of languages does not vary in percentages. The learning of languages goes from pedagogy. In Catalonia... Miri, I'll do it at the end, but still..., wheat a little. The model of school in catalá is a model of success: social cohesion, equal opportunities and equity. What we do is, before their threats, more democracy; before their threats, more Catalan. The school in Catalonia, in Catalan. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.63.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the management of infrastructure. [[Ask the Government about the management of infrastructure]] [[310-00150/13]] Asks the question of Mr David Saldoni, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.64.0	Thank you, President. On 21 July 2007, the agreement of the bilateral commission was reached on the basis of the transfer of rolling trains. And in two decrees, 2009 and 2010, they set the standards for this administrative transfer, which are concretely to regulate, plan, manage, coordinate and inspect the rolling stock and the regional ones in Catalonia. And God's faith that we've tried, but we can't regulate because the infrastructure is governed by a state law. We can't plan because the solaces, which are the spaces for which the trains have to pass through the streets, we have to give Adif, and many times we ask for space to stay more trains and there are no solaces to be able to pass it. We can't manage because we don't have the money so we can neither contract nor set conditions, because we know who normally pays for it. We cannot coordinate because the Catalonian road haulage authority directly relies on Renfe de Madrid. And neither can we inspect because we don't have the contract that would give us the money to do, with Renfe or with whom..., to allow sanctions to be imposed on the operator, as it does with the other operators we have in our country. The State has never passed the approximately 270_million deficit of the service, because it was not the case that the Generality could have had the last word at the time of its decision. The state hasn't done much better on the rolling stock in Catalonia in the last 12 years, and that's very strong. All the better services that have been done in Catalonia, with more services, with more trains or with more hours, have always gone to the bill for the Action Plan, which is the bill that we are going to go to the Generalitat every year to pay these better. We're the only place in the state where it hasn't been better in the rolling stock. Incompliments have been flagrant, but we do not fail in the willingness to reach agreements. And we celebrate the position of the councillor not to sign a contract with Renfe, so we can have a position of strength that gives us guarantees to be able to negotiate. And, in this sense, Vice President, what scenes do you contemplate in order to be able to carry out the transposition granted in 2009 and to be able to provide the service and provide the railway infrastructure of Catalonia in order to be able to provide a good service to the user, as is the Generalitat also doing...? [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.65.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.66.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Congressman. Look, while I address these words, they inform me that this morning there is a malfunction between Plaça Catalunya and Arc de Triomf on the Renfe line and that it is affecting and is causing delays to R1, R3 and R4. Well, that might seem like an anecdote, but that's what every day in Renfe and in Catalonia is about. And we have to fix this, this can't go on like this. The mass of people depends on this service to go to work, to be able to exercise a fundamental right as is the right to mobility to go to work. And I must convey to you that the Government of Catalonia is committed to fixing this situation. And it is for this reason that I celebrate how the bilateral of the past divested in Madrid – I must say – with the secretary of state and also in conversations that we could have with the minister. What seems to be that there is a lot of hope that we can fix this endemic problem, as you explained, for more than two years. It's unsustainable. So, I think we've started this journey in the full and defined lanes, but at times we need to be careful, because we negotiate with the State..., we know what ends up happening: often it comes to an end, there are incompliments... And, therefore, we are very aware that if the State is failing us, for example – we have seen it these past few hours – in terms of language, so..., let us hope, however, that it does not fail us in terms of rolls. We support the initiatives that are being made in this Parliament to work because this is a country of trains. But this country of trains will not exist and it will only exist in the imagination of some if it is not with the integral transfer of wheels. And here I am also in the hands of the Socialist Party because we put all our folds to work on this proposal. From the government and from the vice-presidency, we will be because this transfer is done, because it is not a transfer of thread. We're not going to help make a straight line like the 2009 one. If there is no integral transposition, even though it is gradual, and planned, but with the will to do so, we obviously will not be there. If this move really goes, if you see it, the Government of Catalonia and the Vice-President of the Government will be there to negotiate it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.67.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on people who did not read it. [[Ask the government about people who don't want to go home]] [[310-00151/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.68.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Cervera, people in a situation of residential exclusion, especially people without home, both without shelter and without housing, are a segment of the population in a situation of high complexity that has been worsened as a result of the social health emergence derived from the pandemic. In the absence of an analysis of the impact of this crisis, it can be said that there has been a clear increase in the number of people without going to Catalonia. The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights states housing as an essential asset, because it is considered that a person has an adequate standard of living in order to develop a proper and dignified project. In Catalonia, Law 18/2007, of 28 December, defines the right to housing as the right of everyone to have access to a suitable habitat that follows the various stages of life, the family, the economic and social situation, and the functional capacity. The comprehensive approach is key to optimizing available resources and working to achieve a real impact on the person who helps to change their situation. To this end, in September 2016, through a government agreement, the Generalitat approved the development of the comprehensive action framework for addressing sensillarism in Catalonia. This mark had to be aligned with the European orientations, which established the approach of sensellarism harder to employ the methodology "Housing first – the first. Catalonia has a number of successful experiences in caring for people without a home, and more importantly, with motivated professionals and with a desire to share paths, because a solid society that takes care of its members and where it is worth living is a society that has to come to understand that sensularism is an unintended situation and that anyone can find themselves there as a consequence of the coincidence of various economic and relational problems. This society must be able to give response and make this person a normal habitation environment if he can rebuild his life project. As much as it has worked in the right direction, Catalonia still has many fronts ahead of it. And that's why, Counselor, we'd like to ask you from Juntas what actions will take the department that you're captivating in this environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.69.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, Members, Councillors, Councillors, President..., first of all, allow me to deeply regret the incident that occurred yesterday in Barcelona, with the death of four people, two of them very young children; a regrettable situation that obviously challenges us all: to all administrations and also to all citizens. And, in this same line, I thank you for the opportunity of this question, because I believe that since the Government of the Generality we are working and we are working on this line. As you said, the disembarkation of the year 2016 was approved to govern the development of the integral action mark for the approach of sensellarism. These jobs have been hard to finish during this time. Unfortunately, the pandemic has put an end to them, but now we're in the mood... these jobs are over, and we'll soon present this strategy against senselessness to the government, to the end of the year or to the beginnings of the year you see. In this study, what was done was a survey of more than 780 municipalities in Catalonia, more than basic information. And what you're telling us in this study, unfortunately, is that in Catalonia there are more than 5,700 people without housing or 5,400 people with housing..., in hotels, a band of very many people – almost fifty_ thousand people – who are in situations of denudations or with problems of loggering. What you're also saying in this study is that the majority of sensellarism is concentrated precisely in the large municipalities, in the municipalities of more than twenty thousand people. We, as the government of the Generality, in these assumptions of this year 2022 we have contemplated parties in order to be able to begin to fight precisely against sensellarism, from 12_million euros in concrete parties for sensellarism, or 8 or..., 9_million euros for social aid or help the loguer, to the band of 120_million euros that we intend to help social loguer, that arrive to more than seventy_ thousand families. But it is very important to be able to approve this strategy that must allow us to work in a cross-cutting way throughout the government. Therefore, we will create an inter-departmental commission with the whole government, because sensillarism is not only a housing issue, but also a social issue, it is a topic of salvation– a lot of times it affects people's mental health– it is an issue of occupation. Therefore, from the government we will work, together with the local administration, to be able to fight against this sensellarism and that Catalonia is a country of opportunity for all citizens. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.71.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the modification of the Civil Code of Catalonia in relation to the sphere of the person and the family. [[Ask the Government about the modification of the Civil Code of Catalonia in relation to the scope of the person and the family]] [[310-00152/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Maderas, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.72.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor Ciuro, one of the main objectives of the Department of Justice on which you have repeatedly placed emphasis since the beginning of the legislature is the determined action towards the Catalan civil right. Catalonia's aspirations to have a proper civil order have always met with the resistance of the State to accept national diversity. Nevertheless, the Catalan civil right along the centuries has remained in force despite the fact that it had to fight in such adverse circumstances for its conservation as was the annihilation of the creators of its institutions for the New Plant Decree. Since the Generality regained its legislative competence, our right has returned to enrich itself with nine standards dictated by Parliament and the Government. The Catalan civil law, which I remember governs with preference to the Spanish civil law, specifically responds to the reality of our country and to our customs and values. It is an essential element of our national identity, as you have once repeated, together with language and culture. The book according to the Catalan Civil Code suffices one of the most important parts of our private legal system, the relation to the person and the family. In our legislation, in the family sphere is reinforced the principle of the best interest of the child always. This 25-N later denounced vicarious violence as one of the cruelest expressions of male violence. Vicarious violence consists in instrumentalizing children with the aim of inflicting pain and increasing control over the sea, that is, hurting the sea through its children. This double rape can end up with irreparable damage to the child, patenting attacks on occasions so hard that they have managed to live their lives. This rape occurs especially when the aggressor has lost the opportunity to harm the mother directly by separation or divorce. In these cases the risk is very high, since the judges prioritize that the children, as well as the existence of indicators of violence, have contact with the two parents. Finally, this in Catalonia will change. Once again, we in Catalonia are again anticipating the Spanish State in matters of protection of people. Yesterday he approved a modification of the book according to the relation to vicarious violence. Congratulations, Counselor Ciuro, because all the initiative to protect children and adolescents from all kinds of violence is excellent news. Could you tell us, please, what exactly this new regulation is? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.73.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.74.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... MP Madrenas, many thanks for the question. Indeed, since the Council of Justice and the Government in general, we continue with the commitment to keep our Catalan civil rights up-to-date, alive and modernized, and, moreover, to engage in relations above all personal and to all that governs their private relations. This is why we address different regulations and modifications in sensitive matters for people's private relationships. Like, for example, the right of succession, which we will soon address, to adapt the Catalan civil right to new family models and also to the convivial situations of mutual help. Or what we have recently done to strengthen the rights and autonomy of people with disabilities, adapting the Catalan civil right to the New York Convention. And yesterday, after all, passing a decree that you want to protect minors from vicarious violence, which is also this form of male violence, and therefore, giving an answer, as we say, to these new ways of doing harm, in this case through the children, as you very well explained. Therefore, it is a decree that has the vocation of protecting life and giving guarantees. And even all we want to give are also more certain to the judges, because, as you have well explained, the courts until now do not grant these differences between the abusive parents towards their children, because the parenting relationship with an old conception of saying that what is abusive can be a good father. That's not the case. What we have to be able to do is give tools to the courts because they certainly give them at the time of deciding their feelings. So what we did is say to them, "Look, when there's a case of an accredited male violence – so, with a prosecution complaint – or an open court proceeding, you can't just donate the guards, not just the visits, the stays, and the communications with the abusive parent. Parent or progenitor – therefore, covers all spheres –; until now, however, those who have donated themselves are cases of male violence against the sea. And, in the context of feminisms, we have also incorporated a parliamentary mandate from the previous mandate where it is also established that, when there are, therefore, complaints about male violence and the mother's psychological support, the minor can also be explored. Professionals and professionals already wanted to do this, but it was often found that the abuser used this measure so necessary, because we consider children, young people and children, direct or indirect victims of male violence, without any doubt. Therefore, we continue to advance in the protection of people, the compromise with feminisms... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.75.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the evolution of the covid. [[Ask the government about the evolution of the covid]] [[310-00143/13]] The question is posed by the deputy of En Comú Puem, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.76.0	Good morning, Counselor. Catalonia, thanks to the institutions' task, also professionals and professionals in public health, and also to the commitment of the citizenry, is a leader in vaccination. Despite this, we seem to be sleeping at an onsite. We have a new variation that generates uncertainty at the gates of a bridge and of Nadal's feasts. We'd like to know what the evolution of the cove you're planning for the next few weeks is. You, Counselor, receive peace of mind and patience, but more than that, we would like to know what measures are driving your department so that we do not arrive late to a new wave, as happened last July.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.77.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.78.0	Well, the forecast knows that it's very complicated with the covid. I mean, it's an unknown disease, and, beyond three, five days, it's very complicated to do the prediction. What we can do is look at what is happening in Europe, because from this point of view, we have always said that Catalonia is not an island. Certainly, Europe is still pushing, except for some countries with Holland, which at these times is making the inflection, from very high, certainly, but is making the inflection already with a crow of descent, or well, for example, Austria, which is also beginning..., in a very shy way, but it is starting to make this inflection downwards. It's true that they're three weeks older than us, about three weeks older than we are. I, from this point of view, we still hope, therefore, as a minimum – as a minimum – two more weeks of growth, of growth in this sense of infection, of accumulated incidence. It's translated less, this one... into less hospital and ICU involvement, less than in the previous ones. We have at these times a twenty_per_cent, twenty-u_per_cent of ills in the ICU respect hospitalizations, unlike the previous ones, which was thirty, thirty-u.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.79.0	To answer that question, Mr. David Cid has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.80.0	It's true that we're in a complex situation, but I think that the citizenry needs reliability and celerity. And I think you'll have to agree with me that managing the passport was neither quick nor effective nor effective. We are also concerned about some of their statements: "If you can't or can't unload the covid certificate, help your family members or friends. As my avia would say, take it as easy as you can, won't you? In any case, I will give you a given: one_of_each_four people older than sixty-five years can't connect to the internet either because you don't have the resources to do it or because you don't have the technological capacity to do it. I'll make you a proposal: I'll talk to the Social Rights Advisor, I'll talk to City Councils and City Councils, and I'll be able to get support points so I can download and print out the covid passport. And I'll make him a treat. The booster dose of vaccination... the whole dating system can't work just by telematics. Counselor, I basically insist on what measures you have planned. And I ask you: do you plan to strengthen the tracking system before the new variant? Yes or no? Do you intend to strengthen primary care in order to ensure visibility and to regain access to our CAPs? Yes or no? And, finally, counselor, we are at the gates of a bridge and of Nadal's feasts. What recommendations do you make to the city council? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.81.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.82.0	Well, look, as for the passport covid or the digital certificate covid, we have the dilluns... not this, the previous... 9,200,000 records downloaded from over 6 million people vaccinated. Practically all the certificates are for vaccination. This is a first element. Second important element. We have at these times the tracking..., a win_per_cent– a win_per_cent – of tracking, of close to new variant, or of the variants that at these moments there are, of all the exhibitions that are, in principle, about PCR, okay? A twenty-per-cent. And, at a time, we're still keeping an eye on water. And I can tell you that from two weeks ago the sixty-nine, seventy-seven relationship is being found. It's been two weeks. Measures? Reinforce vaccination, certainly. And, in principle, all that is the measures we already know: the mask, which is the main – which is the main –, the distance when it can, the rent of hands and, above all, the ventilation. And the certificate is a measure. We have the tendency in this pandemic to think that every new thing that comes out has been measured and that will cause us the problem. No, it's one more measure. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.83.0	Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the collapse of the computer system of the covid certificate]] [[317-00081/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. The question is put by Mr Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.84.0	Thank you, President. How do you rate the collapse of the covid certificate computer system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.85.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.86.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, the incidents that were detected by a massive discharge – all of which, as the Health Adviser said, up to the time 9_million certificates had been downloaded – led the Government's Covid-19 Delegate Commission to postpone the inn for a few days to increase even more the entry capacity of the application to achieve, therefore, that you function with all normality, and, therefore, expand the channels so that many more connections at the time can work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.87.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.88.0	Thank you, President. Catalan society has been stupefied by the collapse of the computer system of the covid certificate. The problem is it rains on wet. Not a year ago, the autonomous website also collapsed, just at the time when it was most needed. That is, every time they are faced with a minimally complex technological challenge, they are unable to provide decent service to citizens. And then you say you're going to set up the digital republic and the Catalan NASA, don't miss it! In the case of the digital republic, and given your technological expertise, you might as well beat your own record and last less than eight seconds. And as far as Catalan NASA is concerned..., and I say this without the courage to disagree, but it is that, honestly, your plan to launch itself into the conquest of space without the internet working for them that I see lagoons, call me suspicious. In short, Mr Puigneró and Mr Aragonès, technological innovations are neither for their delusions of greatness nor for their dreams of imaginary republics. You must serve to give effective service to citizens, and that is what you are a real disaster in. Let's get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.89.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.90.0	Thank you very much, President. All organizations, both companies and corporations as well as public administrations, in their own years will have to increase resources for technology. Technology is not just connecting to the internet. Technology is the process change, it's also looking for the maximum resource efficiency. You're trying to fight this technology by thinking that everything that's Generalitat de Catalunya is the same as I don't know how many subversive, seditious, etcetera evils. You have tried here..., you yourself have described as a sedious expense that is precisely the resources that are allocated to CTTI for the best technology. Therefore, when you combine, therefore, to improve the technological capacity with insurrectional processes, I believe that you are not quite authorized, as at least from the political point of view, to give us lessons in this chamber. [[Some applause.]] Thank you. I'm not done yet. And, of course, where you govern also promote the development of the aerospace industry. I suppose when the PP does it, it's technological modernity. When we do the others, you're delusional. Maybe the deliris of granda are yours. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.91.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether the Catalans speaking Spanish speak a foreign language]] [[317-00082/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.92.0	Mr President, do you consider that the 4_million Catalans who have Spanish as their mother tongue in Catalonia speak a foreign language?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.93.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.94.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.95.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.96.0	For, by your actions and those of your advisor, it seems to you that the Spanish is a foreign language in Catalonia, the fruit of an imposition, although it is the mother tongue of 4_million of our Catalan compatriots. You and your Education Advisor consider that the language in which most Catalans love – their parents, their children, their partners –, they work and dream does not deserve to be used as a vehicle in the education system. You think that Catalan speakers who want to reach a cult register in Spanish have enough to study the two_hours a week, and that the one who wants the most Spanish or English, who will be paid a thousand_euros to a private school, as Mrs. Colau says. Do not suppress the Spanish, Mr Aragonès, for the sake of social cohesion or for the gross lie that it is a model of success or because « why study it, if everyone already understands it, as Mr Cambray says. The reason is much simpler: you don't like real Catalonia, bilingual Catalonia, because it scares you. That's why they want to change it through social engineering. By expelling the Castilian from public space and from the classrooms you intend to remove Spain from the hearts of Catalans. You're trying to do the same thing with the Castilian that Franco did with the Catalan: [[remorse of the voice]] restricting it to the family sphere and making it disappear from public life until convincing Catalans that Spanish is something foreign to Catalonia and an unusable language to live and prosper in Catalonia. No matter how much their Taliban spy, rat, harass or fine those who use Spanish in schools, universities, health or commerce, they will not be able to remove Catalonian Spanish. The judges have protected the language rights that you violate every day in schools. You have an opportunity to rectify your discriminatory policies, Mr Aragonès. And we'll make sure they do, no doubt. And you know why? For dignity. Because there are many Catalans who are free and proud of our own plurality that we are not going to allow to become foreigners in our own land. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.97.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.98.0	Mr Carrizosa, you have entered this chamber with the objective of dividing Catalan society. They won't get mixed up. They won't marry, to divide the Catalan society. Because there is no language problem in this country, there is no language problem in classrooms. The problem may be yours, that your political position is absolutely minority in this chamber and for many years it will be. Because you have based your way of doing politics on the cricket, and I believe that the conjunction of the Catalan society has brought them well into line. They hold them well, and that's why they've been held back by the representation... the brightest ascent and the greatest glitter of Catalonia's electoral history, they've been starred by you. We will continue to defend the linguistic model of the Catalan school. Who ranks between Catalan and Spanish speakers is you. He never felt me, like the president of Catalonia, classifying Catalan speakers and Spanish speakers as citizens of the country. Among other things, because a lot of us can't leave. We can't leave... where do we have to leave? In a quarter? What is the language of our advice and advice or the language of many of our family members? We do not come here from the Catalan society, we come to defend the social cohesion and equal opportunities of the country. We have a pedagogically endorsed model, a model that has relied on political consensus, social consensus and the consent of the educational community. You've been in this room defending... now, when you raise the flag of freedom and rights... there have been eighty families, who asked for schooling in the castle. [[Widow's remorse.]] Forty-one families. In the conjunction of the educational system of Catalonia there are 1,400,000 students. Therefore, you try, of very concrete situations, to make it a general problem; with an objective, that is to divide the Catalan society by political and party objectives. We won't leave them. We will defend this model, which is of cohesion and equal opportunity throughout the country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.99.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the endowments in the matter of mental salvation and oral salvation in the assumptions of the Generalitat]] [[317-00084/13]] The question is posed by the deputy of En Comú Puem, Ms.Jéssica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.100.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, last week we made sure that Catalonia will have assumptions, and now the most important thing is to see how these assumptions will cover, guarantee the country's needs. In this sense, we are a country that is broken, fractured by inequality in many areas, but I would like to focus today on one, because we are particularly concerned, and it is in access to salvation. There is a lack of equity in access to salvation, and that is why we are obliged to incorporate our rights. And I'm referring to the right to mental health and the right to oral health. In the first place, we need the public dentist to reach all of Catalonia. You know... we've moved them that the initial match there was for this public dentist was insufficient. And, second of all, we need the public system to take care of the truth of mental salvation. Right now, if someone asks for a psych appointment, they'll find that they give him a two-month appointment in two months. And this happens in a context in which, for example – we know today – the cases of food disruptions do not stop growing, but it is that, moreover, suicide has already become the first cause of unnatural death in our country. And that's why, President, we do ask him what is the return that he can make to us of the proposals of In Comú We can in matter of mental salvation and also in matter of oral salvation in view of the approval of the assumptions of the Generality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.101.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.102.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, first of all, I would like to thank your parliamentary group for the vote last week in the plenary on the proposal for government assumptions. And I also want to thank the fact that this agreement of assumptions, assumptions that are important to the country, is possible. We are talking about EUR 5,000 million more expenditure than the last approved assumptions. Simply speaking, the investment chapter is also double, and will therefore have a very positive impact on the economy and on the rights of the citizenry. He has placed two themes that are part of the conversations that we have been having these last few days, that both are absolutely relevant. In the area of mental health, we are still moving forward with the fact that we have already gone from the Department of Health and the government's joint departments, because this is a cross-cutting issue. He knows that the presupposition proposal included an increase of €80_million for mental health policies; the incorporation of 233 community emotional welfare references, which are attached to the one hundred_five hundred that have begun the task in this past year; the reinforcement, therefore, of the centres of child and youth mental health and adult health centres. So, this is a clear bet from the government, and we can do it..., I also hope to strengthen it further in the monogram ple on mental health that I asked to be celebrated in this chamber. In the field of oral health, where there is certainly a link depending on the resources the families have, we have worked to make it possible for the total of the endowment to amount to 50_million euros and mig: 35,5_million euros to extend the portfolio of oral services to the child population and 15_million euros to start the deployment in vulnerable adults and pregnant women in the field of oral health. So it's a step forward. Obviously, there is a lot of way to go, but I am pleased that it has been possible, so also with its contribution to the presupposition agreement for the year 2022. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.103.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.104.0	Well, thank you, President. The truth is that they make it clear that they don't want the assumptions that we would make if we were to be in government and that in one of them we couldn't solve the inertial ways that we have been pouring into Catalonia for decades... I do want to recognize that today we are taking a step in the best of those assumptions and that we will continue to work for more progress. And I would like to add, finally, despite the fact that some do not make them particularly illusory, that the negotiations of the assumptions are fine. Catalonia on the 23rd of December will have assumptions, and, moreover, will have some better assumptions on issues that we consider key, such as mental health, oral health, on trains and in industry. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.105.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.106.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, these are good assumptions. Let him know that, although we may not share this, the proposal was already a very good one. [[Widow's remorse.]] Of course, you make your own contributions. That is why the parliamentary procedure is concerned with incorporating the visions into it. And so, if it's possible that the 1st generation of 2022, after twelve years, we start the year with valid and approved assumptions, I think it's good news at a very delicate time in the country. We're serving in weirdo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.107.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the reasons for which he endorses the king's presence in Catalonia and legitimate promotion of work]] [[317-00086/13]] The question is posed by the deputy Carles Riera, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.108.0	Good morning, President. The proposed Sunday the 29th the king of Spain, Philip VI, was in Barcelona to participate in two relevant acts: the release of the judicial layoffs, first, and the dinner with the motivation of the two-hundred_five hundred anniversary of Foment del Traball, later. In the first event, that of the release of judicial outbursts, acrytic exaltation of the Spanish judiciary and the monarchy, two of the fundamental instruments in the denial of our rights collectius and repression. In the second, that of Foment, heightening and closing of files of the elites and oligarchies that endorse the denial of our right collects and repression. Encouragement, President, is that employer who refused to adhere to the National Right Pact to decide and who opposed the October 1 referendum. It is that entity that denounced the general wave called after the impresoniment of Mig Government of Catalonia after the application of 155; that entity that opposes the rise of the minimum wage; that entity that today, surprisingly, continues to condition the assumptions of the Generality with outdated and unsustainable projects. President, why does your government endorse the presence of the Spanish king in Catalonia? Why do you legitimize Foment? Why does he normalize them with his presence?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.109.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has a word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.110.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Congressman... Let me begin by referring to one of the acts that you highlighted, which is the arrest of judicial dismissals, and especially the speech delivered by the President of the General Council of the Judiciary, who said that the last reason for the right, the last reason for the judicial function, was to defend the unit of Spain. I think it's a show, clearly, that the high judiciary, the judicial dome, is captured by Spanish nationalism. In a democratic state, the last reason to learn justice should be to guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizenry; here is the unit of Spain. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, we reject this settlement. And respect, therefore, the other act to which you refer, I participated in it because I believe that the Government of Catalonia we need to make our voice felt, even in entities with which, sometimes, we may not coincide in some of the settlements. You have highlighted some aspects in which I disagree with the public position that this entity has held; as in the past, many times it is critical of the government's action. But I think it was important, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, to launch a key message. And the message that I laid there, obviously, before the King of Spain, also, therefore, addressing all the economic and social representatives who were there, is that Catalonia has all the action to make a reindustrialisation that must be used to give more rights and freedoms to the citizenry and to face a change in the model of production; that Catalonia's fracture is not the right to vote, but it is the inequalities, and that the Government of Catalonia is compromised with a negotiation process to defend the right to self-determination and amnesty, and that what is possible in Scotland is possible in Catalonia. What I'm saying here, I'm also saying it in front of the king of Spain, all the way, because we don't have to defend our positions from who they are. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.111.0	To answer that question, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.112.0	President, miri, we do not want the presence of the king in our country to be normalized, and less in acts that normalize the repression or consolidate the 78's regime and the system of national and social oppression that this practice in our home. Look, we're asking you and your government not to. President, don't recognize Felipe VI, not the legitimate share it any institutional act. Do not, with your presence, a employer with a deplorable history of oppression of the working class at our home. And, about the reference of Scotland and self-determination, presiding, indeed, you spoke of it, as you said here. There is a fundamental difference, however, between the President of Scotland and you at hours of the day: she has put date to the reference to the margin of the British Government's opinion. President... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.113.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.114.0	Probably those who deny the right to self-determination, those who reject amnesty, with whom they would be more comfortable is that, when the king of Spain came, we march on stage, that we did not feel our sight, and that you only feel the political position of those who deny the existence of a conflict or who reduce the conflict to a criminal issue. We have to go make our voice heard. No one will expel the presence of democratic representatives of the people of Catalonia. And I am president of Catalonia because I have been chosen for this Parliament, which democratically represents the citizens. No one will expel the institutions... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.115.0	Time's up, President. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the President of the Generality if he will ever exercise as President of all Catalans]] [[317-00083/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.116.0	Mr Aragonès, will one day decide to exercise as president of all Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.117.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.118.0	I do it every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.119.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.120.0	Mr Aragonès, your deep disloyalty to the Catalans as a whole is not even new. You do nothing that you have not done all your separatist predecessors in office: attack the liberty and rights of all citizens permanently in Catalonia. Nor do you represent a novelty in that. That is why the suspension of Catalonia's autonomy through legal mechanisms is now an urgent matter. You have decided to skip the law once again and to disregard the ruling of the Supreme Court in linguistic matters, an irregularity endorsed in this chamber with the infamous support of the PSC, the same as at the hand of En Comú Pom..., permanently rise to the rostrum and plow into a role as defenders of the working class, but you are responsible for the direct attack from separatism to the main social elevator, which is education. They attack the rich diversity on which our country girl, Catalonia, was built, and which is holy and sign of our great country, Spain. Because a bat, Mr Aragonès, has as much right to live in Catalonia as a Catalan in Galicia, a Galician in Andalusia or an Andalusian in Madrid. And they have the right to speak in our language without being persecuted, and they have the right to educate their children in freedom. But in the Catalonia of Mr Aragonès or Mr Illa that is not possible. And in that Catalonia, some by action and others by omission, allow the violent attack on whom he disagrees, as happened last weekend to our colleague and deputy Toni López in Lérida. In the Catalonia of Mr Aragonès or Mr Illa allow groups of Maghreb miners to assault workers of the Parliament of Catalonia, as happened last week, in the face of the complicit silence of all of you. And in that Catalonia, they also allow Spanish to be persecuted in classrooms, to take away the possibility of Catalan families to educate their children in a language spoken by more than 580_million people around the world. We have this very clearly, unlike everyone in this chamber: the only way to restore the legitimate rights of all Catalans is by suspending autonomy, evicting them from the government and enforcing the law. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.121.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.122.0	Thank you, President. Now, if I may, I will not address Mr. Garriga; I will address the rest of the groups in the chamber. Those who laugh thanks, those who feel that they should talk to all groups without exclusion and that we should not make any sense of prevention in front of speeches like these, that they should listen again to this speech; that they should listen again to this speech that goes against the foundations of social cohesion, equal opportunities and the rights of all citizens, because we defend the right of everyone to live in this land in equal rights. Yes, yes, they're from Catalonia, they're from Murcia, they're from Andalusia, but they're from Morocco, they're from Eastern Europe, they're from Pakistan or Latin America, because all the people you see in this country have to have equal rights. You always..., the group you spoke before tried to separate; separate depending on the origin, the administrative condition. We won't do it. Today we have felt in this chamber that a parliamentary group has threatened to apply Article 155 again. This chamber has been closed three times in history: 1934, 1939 – which was taped for about forty years – and 2017 – forcing it to a call for elections. And today we rehearse a speech like this, using language again and using Catalonia's schools again as a tool to promote division. Therefore, all the other groups in the chamber are asked not to share anything with the extreme right, not to share anything with this new fascism that is trying to put the summer of division in our country. The only one that divides our country is the inequality of opportunity; the only one that divides our country is violence against the weakest, which is still practiced in the form of male or racist violence. The compromise of all the democrats of this chamber must be that no one deals with those who want not only to suppress this Parliament, but what they want is to close this Parliament to close the rights and freedoms of the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, it requires a clear compromise of all the democrats of this chamber. And we show that they are an absolute minority. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.123.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the processing of the law of the Catalan audiovisual and the call of the national pact for language]] [[317-00087/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.124.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable president, members of the government, deputies and deputies... president, the català is at risk. In the last few months we haven't seen very obvious displays. First, through the judicial process, as the Supreme Court's last sentence against linguistic immersion and against the Catalan school model; a model that was pushed from Marta Mata to President Pujol, which started the schools in Santa Coloma de Gramenet, which is a model of success and equal opportunities. Catalunya, a people's sun. According, by political means, the laws approved by the most progressive government in history, such as the Celaá law or the audiovisual law. Because the compromise of the struggle with the Catalan must be in this chamber, yes, President, but also to be in the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. And yesterday the same Spanish government is boasting that Catalan quotas cannot be imposed. Let's see if we can find ourselves in front of the « Government that cheats the most in history... Third, because the social use of català is backward. As was the case in 1983, that is why this Parliament approved the law of linguistic normalization, with the support of the PSC of Joan Rventós and the PSU of Antonio Gutiérrez. "Culture of unity, goes and goes. We should all – all – make an effort because that historic consensus now continues more alive than ever in Catalonia. And we have a duty to move from words to action. We have to prove it to the Somescola demonstration on the 18th of December. And we also have to prove it to the institutions. And, before this situation, from Junts to Catalunya, president, we expressed all our support to bring forward those measures that are considered appropriate to maintain linguistic immersion. Let us reiterate the need for a monogram ple on the social use of català. We are committed to building a national language pact as quickly as possible. Finally, we note that the Catalan audiovisual law must be urgently promoted by Parliament. In this sense, president, we would like your opinion to respect, before the urgency, with our sovereignty, to process a law of Catalan audiovisual. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.125.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, I appreciate your support in all language measures that we are doing as a government, that we are doing cross-cutting to the joint departments, because language policy is not returned to a secretary of the Department of Culture, but it is competence and responsibility of the joint government. Obviously, we find ourselves at a time of great reptes. And the reps of this country have always overcome them with great consensus; with consensus as at the time it was, therefore, the whole linguistic model of the Catalan school, successive laws in the field of linguistic normalization. Now we have to do it again. And we will do so with a national language pact, which already in the general policy debate was supported by a wide range of this chamber: the eighty-five per cent of Members and Members were in favour of it. And, therefore, we must work to make this consensus possible. The català in many areas is at great risk of retreating. The audiovisual field is one of them. And, therefore, I am convinced that the deputies of the Congress of Deputies, especially those of Catalonia, will defend that the future legislation in the field of the State incorporates what must be incorporated, that it is the defense of the català at all times, regardless of whether one has its own specific undertakings. Therefore, this compromise will be there. Also, in the context of deploying the Catalan audiovisual law..., they know that it forms part of the government plan, which the Government has already agreed to initiate the proceedings of the preliminary memoir – therefore, the procedure is on the way, as in the case of the government–, which will allow it to do so through consensus. And doing so as the draft law will allow a much stronger regulation to follow, which will obviously then become stronger in the parliamentary sphere. I, finally, the national language pact. Because it is obvious that the situation, for example, which has generated the Supreme Court's judgment is not just a matter of this day, to focus on the percentages, which is the imposition that the Supreme Court wants to make, but we have to go a lot further. They want to impose percentages on us; we have to keep the model and deepen it. And to go much further, which is absolutely necessary, because the català has been a tool of equality of opportunity, of social cohesion, and it has also been a tool that has advanced the country. And in the end, if we do not defend this language, which is spoken above all to our country, who will defend it? And behind a language there is also a way to see the world, a culture and a society that we must continue to defend. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.127.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the measures of the Government to make effective the defense of the linguistic model at school]] [[317-00085/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové of the Grup d'Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.128.0	Thank you very much, President. President... On the same week that the Viens de la Ràpita expelled from their name the Borbo who imposed the teaching only in the castle, the Supreme Court consolidated the feeling of the TSJ that they claim to impose the twenty-i-five percent of the castle on the classrooms, thus attacking a model of cohesion like that of linguistic immersion. Casualty? What's not random, because it's historical, is the evil persecution of our language for certainly structures of the State under all kinds of political rule. The Catalan language is much more than a form of communication to hear us; it's culture, it's tradition, and it forms part of the rales of this country, because it's also cohesive. School and education must be based on respect and plurality. This is why the Catalan school model ensures the dominance of the català and, yes, also of the castle to the pupils of this country. And, therefore, it guarantees equal opportunities for everyone, come from where to come, if you feel like it, speak the language you speak. We must once again raise the parliamentary debate with a firm denunciation before the attack on an armored consensus a few years ago; an attack on a model that came from a pact, a consensus, a respect that crystallized the way the country heard, a way of hearing the democratic, plural and inclusive country. The Catalan school model is one of our biggest threes. The social scope of the project was and is so stable, constant and obstinate that whoever contradicts and questions it consciously, with lies and falsehoods, so that they only seek – as you said – division and confrontation. And they won't find us here. These reactionary sectors, today, have again found the complicity of a court directly inherited from Francoism; res again. They want to usurp the consensus of this country from politics to try to shake us like society. Before this we have to be a single see, high, clear and strong: the català to the school is not touched. Not at school, not at school. And we'll always protect him and wherever he goes. To defend the model of linguistic immersion firm and consensual, yes, but above all clear and determined. The catalá is and will be the language to drive to the schools. We can't give in to a pam, President. Touching the Catalan school model is touching the social cohesion of the country. And this Parliament and the government that you preside over must be a guarantee of firmness in your defence. In this sense, President, what will the government do to make it happen? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.129.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.130.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, I coincide in your defense of the language model at the Catalan school. Imagine what our country would be like if forty years ago we opted for a model that allowed the division of pupils according to the language they speak at home; what our country would be if we had a model of school that did not strengthen social cohesion and equal opportunities. What would it be like today, Catalunya? I think we all agree it wouldn't be better, but on the contrary, much worse. Therefore, we are now at a risk which, in a few years' time, when we look back, we see that in these aspects the country has taken in. Therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the consensus. Consent has been the great tool that has been used for decades to drive the language model, and that's where we have to base it now. Defending a model that works pedagogically, that has the social consensus, of the educational community, that has a political consensus. And at these times what has happened, therefore, is a judicial intervention, skipping educational criteria, setting a percentage of language, when what is important is that all students who finish their education cycle have full ability to communicate, read and write in Catalan, also in castle and in a third language, preferably English. We also know that in the educational sphere we need to strengthen the presence of the Catalan language, because in many other areas it has a social use in a position of inequality that respects other languages, especially the Spanish language. Precisely in order to ensure the coexistence of all the languages spoken in Catalonia, it is important to strengthen this language of the country's own in one of the field areas, which ensures that everyone learns it, that everyone is in a position to use it and that it also encourages use, that it is the field of education. A few days ago we had the opportunity, from the Supreme Court's judgment, to bring together entities in the pedagogical, trade union, master's, family, educational community, also language defence entities. And on the 16th of December we will call a new social summit for the català to school. We also encourage citizenship to express its opinion in respect of the mobilizations that are being prepared for the next 18th of December, but above all, we encourage the assembly of democratic forces of this chamber to make us strong in the national pact for language, which must be the new consensus to ensure that the Catalan will live for all the years that come before. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.131.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about legal assistance to public servants of the Generalitat]] [[317-00088/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.132.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Oriol Bohigas left us, and wanted to have some words for him, because Catalonia, Barcelona, architecture and urbanism lose a master. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Aragones, you said that the trial had been initiated against seven people for his alleged involvement in assaults and crimes against the authority that affected twelve agents of the Mosso d'Esquadra, a fact that occurred on the 20th generation of 2018. A few days before the court's iniquitous, his government withdrew legal defense from these public servants. The court had to intervene and these agents of the Squad Mosos had to seek, on their own behalf, assistance, legal defense. It is an unprecedented fact that – I must say – shames me as the city of Catalonia. Mr. President of the Generality, do you think you will correct this fact, cease the person responsible for this decision and provide legal defense to these twelve public servants?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.133.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.134.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, I add to his words respect Oriol Bohigas, the great transformer of Barcelona not only with stone, with projects, but also with ideas. And, therefore, from here the record head to Oriol Bohigas. On another occasion you asked me about this question. I think we're going down the road, if we use the police to pull it through our heads, I think we're going down the road. We don't let any agent of the authorities in Catalonia go unmanned. It's confusing what it's like to make an accusation about what it's like to make a defense. The defense of the agents of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, always; the accusations without identifying concretely certain people, the accusations when there is no injury to the agents of the authority, I think they have to stay for another band. Therefore, we... you may feel ashamed, but I would like to remind you that in this chamber you have widely voted in favour of this criterion. And, therefore, we will keep it. Therefore, we will not cease anyone, but we will continue on this path. The defense, always, of any public function; but accusations without concrete or when there are no injuries, this must be abandoned. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.135.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.136.0	Mr. Aragones, the answer you've given is very brief. You are the most responsible of more than 200,000 public servants of the Government of Catalonia, and you have no right to leave them legally unspoiled. If some of them do not do their job well, take action and correct it; but when they do their job serving Catalonia, serving the Government of the Generality, you do not have a right, as the President of the Generality, to dismember them legally. And today it is said that it leaves 12 agents of the Squadron Mosses who are part of a collection of more than 200,000 public servants of Catalonia. It's sad and it went the wrong way. They can't unmanage institutionally, I repeat, public servers of Catalonia. Finally, they ask him to see things, to touch things from little to little, to take care of it, to provide the public servants of the Generality with the resources they have, not to spare them. And what do you do, too, that, one week after you announced you'd need a covid certificate, things work out. And let Mr. Argimon work hard, please. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.137.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.138.0	Mr. Illa, you in this room said you would never use the fight against the pandemic for the political pym-pum-pum. He's done it now. I suppose it is the result of the need to try to be more critical of my actions as president, and therefore the apology, of entry. I repeat again: we will defend all public workers, but you are confounding..., are confounding what is the defense of the physical integrity of the work of public workers with directing accusations in a certain way. Is it possible to keep an accusation without knowing against whom, without knowing with what evidence it is maintained? [[Pause.]] I therefore believe that, in this case, we must be strict and demanding. And I ask: don't use it – I think they're wrong, they go very wrong –..., don't use public safety as a tool for political pim-pam-pum. We are working to strengthen all the tools of the Squad's Cos de Mossos. We will reach a good agreement on the Security Board that will allow for increased effectiveness. Now, then, the... there's the possibility of early retirement, the mobile park is being renovated. I think that's what he needs, that's the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And we..., I repeat it: defense of public officials, always; weak accusations..., we cannot support it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.139.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. [[Procedure relating to the general account of the correspondent Generality for 2018]] [[257-00003/13]] The debate and vote on the opinion of the Commission of the Union of Accounts of Catalonia on the procedure relating to the general account of the Generality of the year 2018. (Whispering) Before I begin, allow me to greet, in the name of the chamber, the illustrious Lord Jaume Amat, the chief syndic, and the members of the union who also accompany him. In accordance with Article 185.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the report on the general account of the Generality will be presented by Mr. Jaume Amat, the syndicate of the Union of Accounts. I've got the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.140.0	Many honourable President, Councillors, Lords, Members of Parliament, as every year, appear before this plenary of Parliament to present the report, in this case, of the general account of the Generalitat corresponding to the year 2018, following rule 185 of the Rules of this chamber. The report, which is the 31/2020 report of the union, was approved by the plenary of the union on 30 December 2020 and passed to this Parliament on 15 February this year, 2021. If we go a little further, the general account corresponding to the 2019 exercise, which is the following, was delivered for the General Intervention to the union on November 27, 2020, and was approved for the Plenary of the union on November 23, and will soon enter this chamber – that is, 19 is already approved and will enter four days from now. The latter is the general account corresponding to the financial year 2020, which was released for the General Intervention of the Generality on July 29, 2021, and the union is now, working, so that it can do its taxation. As you already know, the purpose of the report is to express an opinion on whether the economic and financial information presented is in line with the accounting principles applicable to it and on the compliment of its legality. The report also proposes a series of general measures which are considered necessary to improve the management of the Generality. The general account of 2018 including..., the largest package is the general account of the Administration of the Generality, and then the one of the Catalan Health Service, the Cat Salut, the one of the autonomous entities of the administered character, and this is what would be the scope..., what we call the administered public sector. And then it joins that of two autonomous commercial entities, forty-four public law entities, twenty-six commercial corporations, sixty consortia and thirty foundations. That's the bottom of the whole account. The General Intervention of the Generality, which makes up the account, in the memory has prepared this..., for the year 18, for the year 18, for the year 18, the liquidation of the consolidated assumption of the administered public sector, and, for the first time – I will say it again, because I think it is an important step–, also the liquidation of the consolidated assumption of the administered and non-administered public sector. That is to say, in the presuppositional sphere, 18 is already a consolidated state; what remains is that in the financing field..., that is to say, at the balance sheet level and the results account, this consolidation is still pending, since in the memory and account it is only aggregated, that is, it is added and is not consolidated. That's for the 18th. In the 19th they see that..., we see that it is lying down, and the project is that in two or three years it is possible to have the definite object, which would be the consolidation of all public accounts in a general account. The path has started, but it's not... it's not closed at all. What's the opinion...? The opinion of the union is that, except for possible effects of the limitations and facts described in some of the observations we make in the account report, the general account expressed in all significant aspects the faithful image of the assets and the financial situation of the Generalitat at 31 December 18, and also the results of the cash flows and the budgetary settlement corresponding to the exercise completed on this date, 31 December 18. The union puts a special emphasis on certain issues. The 18th year, the Generality completed the presuppositional targets of public debt and the expenditure rule, which the other years had not been able to complete. The 1st generation of the 18th came into force the application of the general plan of public comptability of the Generalitat; it is the first year..., the union..., of previous reports, always went claiming the inn in march of this general plan. The 18th is the first year that is set aside a general plan that was approved the previous year, the 17th. And this fact, which is already important, causes that there are some differences to respect the previous general accounts; it is to say that the application of the new plan probably..., probably, no, sure, has changed..., some important differences in the way that the application of the new plan affects the presentation of the accounts. From this special point of view, for the first time, as I said earlier, there has been a state of liquidation of the consolidated input and expenditure assumption relating to the joint venture of the entities participating mainly for the Government of Catalonia, but the consolidated states remain pending of all that would be the part financed with the rest of the enterprises..., of entities forming the account. Here, too, they appear, on the report, and we are coming as this type of company is joined to what would be the Pangea system, which is the new comptability system that is compatible with the Gecat, which is the computer application to be able to carry the management of what are the accounts of the Generality. If we enter directly into what would be... Well, there are two points that arise after observation, but probably for its emphasis it is worth highlighting, that is that the 18th year the Administration of the Generality counted in the balance part of the infrastructures and equipment linked to concessions and surface rights, that before there was, however, still missing, a point more in this accounting – after I talk about it, when we talk about observation. And, as we have done for other years, we note that there is a delicate financial situation on 31 December 18, since the three-year Romanesque is denied, that the pro-funds are also denied, and that the debt financing and spending commitments acquired in the course of future exercises are very high. This situation will finance delicately already the portem tell in various reports. The report presents such observations. Many of them are repeated in previous years. What can we highlight? Observations are the negative part; that too, sometimes, is important to see. That's to say, it's where the union believes that the general account does not meet its internal standards and that it should be highlighted, because that's where it gets better, so to speak. In the data of the 31st of September of the 18th, the CatSalut certainly presents repeated deficiencies in the area of material immobilisation and assets. As previously stated, in 18 the intervention already registered in its financial accounts, in the act and the pass, the infrastructures and equipment linked to concessions and surface rights, but in the opinion of the union they still lack to register in the financial accounts the buildings included in the public works concession contract, especially the project of the judicial city and the equipment leased to the old ICF Equipments, which are also to be considered as financial leases and as such must be in the general financial accounts. The General Administration has not carried out a detailed analysis of the actual antiquity of the right pending the collection of exercises prior to the territorial treasuries; this is a matter that has been pending for some time and needs to be resolved. In the same way, from the revision made for the union, it is observed that on 31 December 18 it had not made a valuation correction of the generality's investment in infrastructures for 1,200_million euros and that the correction corresponding to the Catalan corporation..., of these 1,200, the Catalan media corporation was undervalued with 63.45_million euros. These valuation corrections for deterioration are pending and also affect what would be the valuation of investments in the CatSalut. Then, one thing that also comes out every year, the liquidations of the administrative and catholic assumptions and the administrative autonomous entities do not include part of the expenditure made in the 18th for lack of sufficient credit. That's what happened – and I say it, I say it – is displaced expenditure; that's to say, that expense that moved to the next year because in the assumption of the year there was not enough to believe. In this case, the displaced expenditure of the 18th – or still, certain and unaccounted for – amounted to 2,026_million euros, the largest share attributable to the CatSalut..., that 2026 there are 1,366 imputed to the CatSalut. The union has audited an exhibition of Generality contract documents and in the report is detailed – now we would not enter it – different incidents that have been seen in the contract procedure. Apart from these observations, which I have made very short and brief, there are also eight recommendations for aspects where we believe it is worth putting this emphasis, to improve the day-to-day management of the Administration. If we go directly to data, the state of liquidation of the presumption of which is the part of the Administration of the Generality presents a liquidated rights of 40,672_million euros and a recognized obligations of 4,701_million euros, with a deficit of 28,09 as a result of assumptions and a deficit not to finance of 986_million euros. The total number of bonded admissions, 40,672, represents an increase of 4,500 in respect of the previous year and the recognized bonds, 40,701, imply an increase of 5,888_millions. That is to say, the increase in admissions is 12.6 and the increase in expenses is higher, 16.9. At 31 December, the staff of the Generalitat was composed of 130,233 staff before 128,632 of the previous year. The working staff experienced a reduction of 0.8 and the undefined workforce decreased by 5.9_per_cent. The one that went ahead is the staff involved and the temporary one in a 6 and a 1.8_per_cent. The average period of payment to suppliers corresponding to the Administration of the Generality and its dependent entities, classified as public administration according to SEC criteria, was from 34.93 days to 31 December, before 18.06 of the previous year; then, it was increased from 18 to 34. On 31 December 18, the Generality Administration's debt was €70,380_million in the long term and €1,630 in the short term. Of these 70,380 – and we have said other years – 58,380 correspond to the debt for financing with exceptional mechanisms, that is to say, above all the debts that we have on the FLA; that is to say, of these 70,000, there are 58,000 that are in this package. From the contractual activity, the Generalitat in 2018, in addition to all departments and its public sector, formalised 179,971 contracts, with a total import of 1,738_million euros. The total number of minor contracts is normal, formalized represents a noranta-five_per_cent of the total contracts, but only a disset_per_cent of the total amount awarded. It is also worth putting emphasis on what the commitments of expenditure acquired at the expense of future exercises – which here is summated, logically, the debt – are: up to 110,340_million euros. That's to say, what we're pulling out of the coming years, what's going to happen in the coming years is up to 110,340_million euros. By the end of the day, I would like to conclude this intervention by demonstrating a series of points that I probably repeated a year ago and that I believe that, in view of its importance, it is worth considering. First, the presentation of this account closes the procedure that began in this chamber, in this case, because it is an extended presumption, not with the approval of the presumption, but with the approval of its extension. The general account is the most important document to explain and understand how they have spent and reversed the underlying assumptions. Your presentation and debate, perhaps because the exercise student or perhaps because he is already a woman per fact, I have to say that he has less to say, so to speak, that the approval of the premise, when actually in this act what we are doing is seeing if that assumption that in his day was approved has been completed, has not been completed, has been managed well or has not been managed well. I think it's between everyone, and the union, too, because probably..., " probably not, surely, part of the diversion in time is direct fault of the organ that I preside. But among all of us, we would have to give a more important piece of money to what the debate would be and discuss how the money from the approved budget was spent on his day. I see the chamber, I see that a huge resuscitation does not have, because there are fewer Members than the day the assumptions are approved. But, well, that's everybody's fault, I mean, I also know the first one – the union – that I set up. That is to say, among all of us we have to get that the general account debate – that is to say, the debate about how the assumption was spent not only on the Generality, but on the whole Catalan public sector – is an active debate, that is to say, an active and positive debate; that is to say, from here it is possible to debate what is missing and where we need to go. The union also continues to value very positively the work that since the 17th anniversary of the General Intervention, which is the organ responsible for the comptability and the closing of the general account, both in accounting and in the presentation of the account. I have already said at the beginning that, thanks to this work, 18 is the first year that the new comptability plan applies; 18 is the first year where the whole presupposition of the public sector is consolidated. And there's plenty left to do, that in the 19th and 20th they've been moving forward, huh? I can also move forward because I know it and I've seen it. That is to say, it would be going to seek the consolidation of a single general account where in the general account there are all entities in the public sector. Now we have consolidated the assumption and the share will finance only the aggregate. That's to say, not added, but... pardoned, added and unconsolidated, just added. Then, I wouldn't want to end... Considering that, from the 20th and in the face of the crisis from the pandemic caused by covid-19, the presuppositional and planning and development effort is more complex, and this complexity affects us in this room, of course, to the government, of course, but also to the organ that I am presiding at this time, which is that of the union. I believe that from the 20th to the 21st, with the injection of funds so as to be able to rebalance the deficits caused by the crisis, the Government, the country, the Parliament have a very important repte, because many funds come – they have a very important repte – but there is also a risk, in other words, of knowing how to manage it properly and be effective and efficient in the colocation of these funds. Then the union will try to be like an external controller at the level that requires all this background injection. Proof of that is that we're already working. That is to say, we have already done – and this is like the answer of a resolution of this chamber – two reports that are about to come out – are already finished and allegations are being reviewed – on the emergency and emergency contract throughout 2020, from March to 31 December; these are already done. But we've got more in the way. We have just reported on what would be the hiring of staff from the ICS field, which has been very affected throughout this situation; from the credit activity of the Catalan Institute of Finance, especially in all that is what they are meant to be, to say so; also from the management – and this is also a resolution, also from the union committee that we are already starting to pull forward – from the empty sources that have been rejected, in this case, from the State; and also, in the long run, from all the help that has come in very determined areas. For the year you are working on, we have two areas of respect for how these aids have been made and how they have been managed: one, linked to the field of education and the other, linked to the field of sport, where we will study, from the year you are looking at, how these foundations have been made and how they have been managed and what their results are. That's why I want to lock this up: it's a repte. It's a challenge that if we do well, we can all get out of it. But he also has a risk: if we do it badly, they won't believe it again. That is to say, then, the listener, who is to give the view of how it happened, also play this game. It is to say – and here I can only speak, logically, for the institution I represent – that the union tries and will try to settle in the place it occupies in order to be able to control the management in this determined area, which is a very important area not only in terms of funds, in amounts, but also in what would be the reception of the management. All right, all right, Thank you very much for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. In the first place has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.142.0	Thank you, President. It will allow me to start making a record, President; making a special record, because this week, unfortunately, after almost twenty years of mayor, we have joined our companion and friend and referring to the Pirinaeus, the mayor of Salàs de Pallars, the Pirinaeus, the company Sisco Borrell, eh? A record for him. [[Greetings.]] Begin. Counselor, thank you for being here. MPs, MPs, major syndics, syndics who accompany us, technical workers and workers of the union, who sure are following us, let me, in the first place, make some reflections that summarize a little the content of our intervention. In the first place, I will reproduce a phrase that our companion and friend Rubén Viñuales says when he speaks of justice. He said: « Investing in justice generates injustices. I would make a parallel, to say: "An effective democracy without taxation and without evaluation is fraught with weakness, eh? So, as has been said here, and I come back to insist, what it cannot be is that the initial premise generates so many portals, so much interest, and so much or so much more important as its..., management, enforcement, incidences, problems that have occurred during the year, irregularities, if any, in the general account do not generate that interest or the subsequent corrections or public policies that they correct. We..., as a summary, I'll say: u. It is very urgent to renew the tasks of the Union of Accounts, which has long since completed its mandate. Please, let's get in there. It's important for the union, it's important for the Parliament, it's important for our society. Two. The general account debate has to be done before. We have to try to get to bed as much as possible... when the General Intervention of the Generality makes the general account, it sends it to the union and goes to Parliament to make its debate. It's very important. If not, we're talking about things that have happened and we're missing the opportunity to fix those deficiencies that point to us. Three. We believe that there is a substantial change in some things that have not been felt by the 1980s, the 1990s, the 2000s or even 2010s with the economic crisis and the moment we are now. Because we are not talking here about the money of the Generality, which also, but we are talking about all entities, societies, foundations participated directly or indirectly for the Generality. I point out here: did you feel that at these times we are talking about the Generality and the dependent businesses...? We have dependent businesses with 365 entities. Did you feel it? In fact, the autonomous community of the entire state that has the most dependent entities is Catalonia, with 365. To put some examples, Madrid in tea 139; València in tea 128; Balears, 78; País Basc, 151. Catalunya, 365. I think every territory has its own dynamic, its own idiosyncrasy. But it's already hard to control 78 entities, so 365 makes us feel that it's impossible. Therefore, I need a rethink and I need to be brave, counselor, because surely they are those pending themes that do not come to the doors and that surely no one is going to do a background job, generate a dynamic, straighten the house, manage well and tax it well and take... And many of the recommendations are already in what the union tells us. We too – our company Jordi Riba – already made a press wheel, a few days ago, because we did an analysis of the different reports of the Union of Accounts. And sometimes it makes sense that we don't believe them enough. We detected that the eighty-eight percent of the reports contained irregularities. Many of us have been in the Union of Accounts and, therefore, we see many irregularities in the contract, some accounting mismatches and others in the personnel policy. What can't be is that some people are repeating themselves in aeternum in long-year reports, so that at the end a lot of money is learned. And I also say: is there a lot of money or is there a little money, Canadell, that we have intense and passionate debates? Is there a lot of money or is there a little money? Depén. The generality had never had as much money as it has now, in the initial premise and in the executed assumption. So much better, but we never had so much more. The question is also: do we manage these effectively? It's maybe they're getting away. Are we really assessing that the objectives of the different supposition parties are being completed? Obviously, I'll leave the question to the air. What else? It has already been said here: escort, we cannot follow without certain established assumptions. We have strong assumptions, but there are many entities that are not yet there. So we don't have the picture yet. And here we also want to make a recollection of David Canada, the General Intervention of the Government of Catalonia and all the workers, because it has advanced a lot. And it's true. But the laws have also moved forward and changed. And social demand today is not the same as it was a few years ago. So we're good? Yeah, but we haven't done enough. There is..., the cent_per_cent of entities dependent on the Generality must be in the consolidated general account; the cent_per_cent– the cent_per_cent. And, therefore, until this is a reality, we cannot have a photo, an X-ray of the Generality's relations and the different entities – the Cat Salut, autonomous entities and the rest of the dependent entities – what's going on – what's going on – what's going on – with the Generality's finances. We have already said this and I will not go any further: important, the debate of the general account, as much or more important as the initial assumption, to see everything that has happened, that has been so much. And more when we come from an extended supposition. Pressupost extended, you can't adapt what you want in 2018 – we have to move to 2018 – and, therefore, it's normal that, more than that, there are more modifications to adapt to the year and to the needs we have to meet, and also, obviously, to our entries, major entries, major debt, major difficulties that vagina passes; so, what's happened. Obviously, too, analyzing what happened in possible irregularities, huh? , in the management of the different departments, of the different societies. Of course, and where are we coming from? It is true that we must recognize it and therefore we will try to make a rigorous speech, but we also need to put an alert on that which does not work well. We came from a few years that was not chaos, but almost. We're incomplete in deficit, debt, law of stability, bills without accounting... all, reddened by the crisis of 2008. And, all the while, it is watered down by a financing system that gives you a lot of money when there is an expanding economic cycle, but it creates a lot of difficulties when there has been recession or when there are economic problems, which is certainly when we need more public policies. So, we understand that, but then we also have to explain it; that's why we're having expenditure crises these years. So, I think that 167 entities are taxed here today, a lot of..., 40,000_million euros of expenditure, 130,000 workers, 70,000_million euros in 2018, huh? , €70,000_million in debt – currently we are in eighty – the eighty_percent of the debt at these times is FLA. I believe that it would also be useful to have a good reflection here, Councillor, and Members and Members. He said: "It seems that the FLA does not like us and that we want to go to the markets. I think they're asking. Depên – depên. The market has to be given to us. But even though we have the gift, we need to see what kind of interest. And I think that we're interested in liquidity, finance and, obviously, a type of interest as low as possible, and negotiating, if possible, that type of interest or access to finance. One hundred and thousand contracts made during 2018; therefore, a very important volume. Comply with the presuppositional, public debt, expenditure rule goal for the first time in many years. We're glad, good news. But we don't complete with the three-time novelist and the negatius, especially for the, also... the dedicated disc we have every year, which is the unaccounted for expense of the CatSalut. Cath Salut's funding deficit, which is no excuse to say that we don't count bills, because we deceive ourselves and then we come up with deficits that make us thrash all the presuppositional stability and the Generality's treasury. We'll see if this time, with our changes, we'll see what lawyers we've done, we'll see if we can control this. What else? Calen corrections and acclaims on the receivables of EUR 600_million; therefore, we will see how it affects the accounting states as well. Depreciation of assets in the amount of EUR 1,200_million to Infrastructures. How much. Uncharged expenditure, as I said, is what makes us hold a negative Romanesque of EUR 2,000_million– EUR 2,000_million, uncharged expenditure. I think this is one of the phone elements that we have to try to correct for our own years. Increase of the disset_per_cent of the expenditure recognised in 2018 respects 2017; therefore, there were 5,800_million euros more: one part came from debt, from FLA, another part of major entries. And I also think we should be worried about a payment period. We paid much later, practically doubled the payment period from 18 to 17. All three years back; therefore, with the exception that, obviously, some of this information has been out of step over time. Another element that I think we should analyze..., and the Pons syndic, who always makes a particular vote to some of the elements that we would like to collect and fill out here... We should push in the staff contract – duplicates, compatibles and compliments of the existing legality of the staff – as we should also push in the bust or not of the minor contracts. 2018 was 171,000 smaller contracts, when the 17th had been made 76,000. So we've done more than twice as many minor contracts as we've done the previous year. So, does that mean anything? No, no, Are you abusing minor contracts or fractions at certain times as we have seen in the union? Yes – yes. So it would be hot in here, too. I'm working on another parenthesis. It would also provide clear instructions to leaders, managers, directors of different dependent entities, because sometimes, in the attachments, they say that they are not public administration, and we have first-hand discussions, of which you learn the first day you go to the Union of Accounts. Listen, you return these Generality money, it's public administration; therefore, you have to complete some procedures. Therefore, I believe that we should also see here how we give clear guidelines and how we monitor after, since the intervention, those that do not comply. That means, then, maybe hold some credits, if you can. Deures for own years– we have already said –: one hundred_per_cent of consolidated accounts, very important; greater control to dependent entities to avoid duplicities and review certain entities if they are unavoidable or if they can be merged. It can't be that we're following one of the entities with the most... or one of the communities with the most dependent entities. There is a sufficient supply to the health system, and to the CatSalut especially, which takes a very important part of the presupposition. And obviously, as I said, I need a detailed study of the staff. What else? We also think it would be good to talk pausedly about the generality's debt for the next few years and the FLA, the different financing systems we can have. We believe that this must also be very linked to the new funding system, if it is that you are through the work. I think having certain aspirations is not contradictory with asking for better in the current funding. It is obvious that we have financing problems in certain public services, and that it is a system that has been done a few years ago and that at these times we can update it, review it, improve it. But we have to be – but we have to be – by GDP we represent, by problems we have and, above all, not to mortgage the future of finance for our own years. We shall ask, Madam President, if I may, for a separate vote on point 1a. The account has to be approved, obviously, it's not a secret, but there are some things that don't work very well when we hear it, that haven't managed very well and, therefore, that we will abstain from approving the general account. We will vote in favour of the union report and that the government follow the recommendation to follow the recommendations of the report. So it has to be approved. We've got a lot of iron to do. We hope that the 2019 account will come faster, if it can be..., well, this year will no longer be, so that it will come as close to 2022 as possible, and that some of these themes are already focused on them, and if they are not resolved, then in lives to resolve. Many thanks, members of the union; deputies, deputies, councillor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.143.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then there is the word, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.144.0	Thank you, President. It is still a political and democratic anomaly – the umpteenth in this house – that we are debating today on the budgetary execution of the 2018 financial year. I mean, let's talk today, this week, about what happened four years ago, just two or three days ago..., a few days ago we were talking about the account of 22. Well, it doesn't stop being a rarity, does it? , and one thing, as the spokesman for the PSC said, to improve. That forces you, when you want to talk about 18, to put into context what happened in Catalonia in 2018. And I don't know if this can be of much interest to the citizens, given the delay we are talking about. But, well, it forces us, because, if not, we cannot understand how this budget was implemented. We lived... how did we live in the 18th? Well, it was an extended budget. The accounts for 18 were not approved. The 17th was extended. We were in a situation in Catalonia absolutely chaotic after the coup d'état on October 1, 17. Public accounts, the achievement of macroeconomic objectives, the prosperity of Catalans were not precisely priority issues for the rulers at the time. The consequences of a short, temporary, insufficient 155 galinaceous flight were being digested. It also affected, that 155, this account of 18. He used to joke with a partner: let's see if... The syndic said before, in his presentation: "Well, for the first time, the spending rule was met, the deficit target was met, the debt target was met. Let's see if it has anything to do with the budget. It is now a coincidence that the only year that debt targets and expenditure rules are met is the years in which those rulers could not handle the accounts – it is now a coincidence, isn't it? But well, that was the context. [[Some applause.]] And the political situation in Catalonia in those years was not exactly exemplary – it was not exactly exemplary. As I said before, we suffered the consequences of a government in rebellion, without institutional loyalty, which devoted all efforts to breaking the normal coexistence and social cohesion of Catalans. And in the economic sphere, then, a context of massive corporate flight. The other day we remembered: almost seven_ thousand companies have left Catalonia since October 1, 2017. A bestial flight of funds, deposits: 34,000_million_de_euros came out of Catalonia that black October coup. And talented, because a lot of people are gone, too, and they haven't come back. He hasn't returned to Catalonia. Well, and then, and how does that logically affect it? Did it affect the accounts? Of course. And what does it look like in those accounts, when you look at these 18 accounts? So, beyond the fact that we then go on to evaluate the report exactly as presented by the union, well, that too many structures d'etat are observed, it was also mentioned before. There were more than 360 entities at that time, para-government, that were part of the whole of what is the group, let's say, Generalitat of Catalonia or Catalan public government. A disproportionate taxation, clearly. Already in the year 18 it was seen. And, therefore, we sometimes sum it up as the government of the four countries: waste, waste, imbalances and debt to mansalva. The syndic in his presentation said: "Well, the financial situation was delicate, I think he said," delicate. Indeed. I'm a little bit dumber: it was a catastrophe. And it's still what it is – and it's still what it is. Then I'll tell you some data, but I think the cash balance data leaves the economic mismanagement of those years in evidence. Ten thoughts about the account. First of all – it has been commented on before; I also said this at the beginning – let us try to lighten deadlines. It doesn't make sense..., I think any citizen who sees us on television and can hear this debate... "Hey, these are talking about 18. They're talking about the 18 when they just talked about the budget for the 22nd last week. Really, we have to lighten deadlines and do the best we can. Well, there's no one from the government. They'll be having breakfast. But, let's see, it's important what the union report says. In other words, the autonomous bodies have to collaborate with the union, they have to present the accounts, they have to be able to be audited in time. And as the union report rightly states, nineteen autonomous administrative entities did not submit the accounts on time, violating section 81.2 of the Finance Act, and other entities did not submit the accounts at the time. So, with what has been presented, can we conclude that this report represents the faithful image of the Generalitat's accounts as a whole? No, no, A lot of things are missing to audit. It is an incomplete vision and analysis of them. I mean, it's important that all that big shingles... before they talked about 360. Indeed, 360. In this budget, moreover, they will create sixteen new ones, that is, and this continues to grow. So, do you have to present the accounts? Of course. Do they have to be auditable and verifiable? Of course. If not, this thing we're discussing today, anyway, it's a little wet paper. Expenditure committed during the budget exceeded the limits of appropriations. 2,026..., 2,000_million_of_euro was the expenditure actually incurred and not recorded in the budget, of which 1,366 from CatSalut. A real barbarity. This is a real barbarity. This in a company is automatic redundancy. This is a doll. And this can't be consented to. But it also happens year after year. It's a shame, really, because the point is it's very high. It is too high a percentage of what the budget itself is. It's not an anecdote, 2,026_million_euros, it's a real barbarity. Well, there are so many barbarities... Well, in the end, the union still does not renew itself – we take the opportunity to ask for the renewal of this organ –; it is overly politicized; it discredits the organ itself, this lapse..., this infinite perenniality. This has to be done, because, really, too much party manoeuvring delegitimate the union itself. We agree with the report's reflection that it makes no sense to include the EUR 3 500 million of State tax holdings. This year they have done the same again in the budget of the 22nd: again include 3,500_million... This is making up the real image, the right image, the faithful image, eh? , of what are the accounts of the Generalitat. Because, in the end, with these items, the Generalitat of Catalonia all it does is do, let's say, carry the funds, and it makes no sense to include them in the Generalitat's own budgets. I used to say that the financial situation was delicate; no, it was a disaster, wasn't it? Yes, indeed. I believe that the data... there are two data that make it important that the year 18 ended up being a disaster, as it continues to be today. One is the remnant of negative treasury of, nothing more and nothing less, 2051_million, when they came from the 17th of 340. It was a frightening growth of the remnant of treasury, and it shows the short-term lack of solvency of what is the Generalitat of Catalonia. And then the consolidated debt itself of the Generalitat as a whole and its parallel entities, right? There were 78,332_million_de_euros in debt, the largest in Spain by difference – the largest in Spain by difference. And some endorsements, which are often not counted, because..., anyway – but endorsements also affect, huh? , to debt and rating balances – more than 3,000_million, which is also a barbarity, and we must also start to put a stop to these issues. Well, then, that was the debt and economic imbalance mess generated by separatism, which is that all this cost us, this year 2018, 849_million in financial expenditures, debt interest. That is, if every year, when you lift the tent from the Generalitat budget, you allocate almost 1,000_million_of_euro to financial expenses... how many social policies could have been made with those 1,000_million? I mean, is it good to be reducing the Generalitat's debt? Of course; to lend you money, to finance you in better conditions and not to have to spend almost 1,000_million_of_euro on financial expenses, on interest. It is important to keep the Generalitat's accounts in budgetary balance. Another issue that caught my attention when I looked at the report: total initial appropriations authorized for the year 18 were almost 34,000_million, and there were changes of 7,500_million, is about twenty-one_percent of budgetary changes. The initial budget with the budget executed..., the difference is too beasty, too big. We have to try..., the government has to try to make what is implemented throughout the year look minimally like what is approved, because, if not, what we Members do here when we look at a draft budget is wet paper, it is to waste time. Because if we have a budget debate here and it turns out that the past Kings, on the 10th, are already making budgetary changes to me in the amount of I don't know how many thousand_million, what we have done here until December, frankly, is waste of time. It's true, he also points out that the Generalitat was not complying with the fundamental norms of lateness. We say that in every debate we can. It is important that the law of lateness is complied with. It is important that the Generalitat de Catalunya is not financed at the expense of small businesses, of small suppliers who provide services for it. I have heard before, therefore, that 170,000 smaller contracts were actually made than in the 90 and long percent of cases, in addition, they are small enterprises, and it makes no sense for the Generalitat to be financed at the expense of these small enterprises. In many cases, they play with their viability. It was important, it remains important that the law of lateness be complied with and that no more than thirty days be the deadline for the Generalitat to pay its suppliers. We ended up with a reflection on those 365 little chiringuitos that the Generalitat has, didn't we? We, from the beginning of the legislature, are calling for the substantial elimination of them. That is to say, this is a real disaster and it is a queue of invoices that is not even available to the Union of Accounts, with the best of the world's will, to be able to control it, even if they presented the accounts to them. So why not work, collaborate with the public sector, bet on public-private collaboration? Why not? Why can we not collaborate with private sector audits that help the union to analyze the accounts of all of these chiringuites, or at least some of them? We also bet there on the private sector. Why? Because we would gain in transparency, we would gain in rigor, we would know exactly what is happening with the accounts of the Generalitat. And, unfortunately, for the information we have and with these reports that you submit to us, I do not tell you that in bad faith, but, of course, we cannot have a correct faithful image of what happens with the accounts of the Generalitat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.145.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.146.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Thank you, President. Well, today we are voting on the general account of the Government of Catalonia issued for the Union of Accounts, corresponding to the exercise 2018, which was started, remember, 2018, with the extension of the assumptions of 2017, and which, as explained to us by the major syndicate, includes the account of the Generality, the accounts of the public sector entities participating in a majority way for the Generality, the independent entities and the accounts of the public entities that hold the Generality. We also want to put it in the replete, as have the two people, the two Members who have spoken before, so that is a certain anomaly, isn't it? , that we are discussing the 2018 accounts. Although I would not like to describe it as a "democratic anomaly and less than I described it as a democratic anomaly, that group which has scarcely a few minutes ago called for intervention, has it not? , of this chamber, where the people's sovereignty resides precisely. Well, our vote on the general account of the Generalitat, as it has been in the past few years, will be forbearance. Above all, our forbearance position has much to do with the particular vote that one of the syndics makes; a particular vote that has been repeated in time on a regular basis since 2007, and to which no attention has been paid. And for us what you say this particular vote is important. Because this particular vote..., or at least the reading that we have, that we hope is the correct one, is that we cannot have a full X-ray of what the accounts of the Generality are, that in any case, what we have is an image in the eyes of the ocell. And that's not going to work out when we have all these consolidated accounts; it tells us that they're already working, that there's a few left, but there's not all of them. But even though we're studying all these consolidated accounts, we don't even have a full X-ray of the accounts, we just have a..., don't we? , a dermatological thing, on the surface. Okay. Why... why haven't we gone on? And it is that we do not make a thorough analysis of the state of commitments of expenditure acquired in the course of future exercises. And the other thing that is also said is that it should go into a deep analysis of the forms of public-private collaboration and taxation if they fit into the current reality. And it makes a serious warning about the cost of using public-private forms. I haven't heard from speakers who refer to this negative note, which is given to public-private collaboration forms. A collaboration formula that on the part of the CUP we always criticize, because we understand that it is not an adequate way to carry to term..., to satisfy the material needs of people living in Catalonia. And in this particular vote, so, too, right? , it is confirmed that the forms of public-private collaboration should only be used in very concrete assumptions and not as the general formula, because there are some transfer costs to the private sector that in economic terms, in the economic logic in which many of you, right? They understand that it has to be done, so, including so, they're not effective either. Therefore, we cannot vote in favour of this account when a thorough analysis of these formulas has not been made and when this use of these formulas ends up being a constant. To see, it is true that the use of these formulas has a very specific and specific cause, and we do not warn anything new, that it is the inadequacy in the model of autonomous financing that we have. Therefore, we have a lack of financing model that makes there is no money and that makes it necessary to opt for these forms of public-private collaboration that are only pieces and that have made this ball every time bigger. To the band we have said, we also want to emphasize that the purpose of the report is to give an opinion on the general account joint and not on the financial states of each of the entities that form part of the Government of the Generality. And it has already been expressly stated that the purpose of the report and the large number of individuals included in the general account do not allow an audit of individual annual accounts to be carried out to all entities and to the general accounts, which for their volume cannot be subject to an audit of the management. A limitation, isn't it? We also understand that it makes it impossible for us to vote in favour of these accounts. And if anything we understand to be the result of this report, it is the Generality's weak ability to manoeuvre in terms of admissions and expenses, fruit, as it were, of a model of autonomous financing that limits us to more hen managers, to more mere accounting managers, that deprives us of any possibility of effective and full sovereignty, and that only leads us to a high debt and a commitment of expenditure that we are acquiring for future exercises and that only mortgage our horticulture with the country. And this, therefore, leads us to the union to see the delicate financial situation of the Generalitat, which in December 2018 causes us to have a negative romance and that the funds are still being denied. Therefore, what is evident from this report, which results is that we live asphyxiations in a model that does not allow us to move forward. Why? So why do they correspond to the Government of the Spanish State fix, from the first half of each year, what must be the objectives of presuppositional stabilization – all this is fixed for the Council of Ministers – because they also correspond to the Spanish Government that tells us who is the compliment of the expenditure rule – and this is also calculated according to the GDP of the Spanish economy – and why is it also the Council of Ministers that sets the objective of presuppositional and public debt stabilization. Therefore, we find ourselves in a situation of financial asphyxiation. A situation that has a direct impact on the material living conditions of the people we live in this country, and tells us the major syndic that 58,380_million euros is the debt of financing in exceptional needs of the FLA. We think we need to focus on reporting this situation. We also need to focus on where the tickets come from. What about the venerable tickets? So they come from taxes, taxes, current transfers of self-employed entities, capital inflows from bank returns. But what are you going to show us all this? So taxes... what do we have in the matter of taxes? Well, we have a whole series of..., capacity to recapitulate a whole series of tributes – of assets, taxes on property transfers, documented legal acts, tax on games; we also have a part of recapitulation of the IRPF; also a part of recapitulation of VAT – but we do not have tax autonomy. And if we don't have tax autonomy in this country, we don't have full decision-making capacity. And, in fact, the times we try to exercise this tax autonomy, we have the stinger of the Constitutional Court who goes on to tear down any construction in this matter that can come out of this legislative chamber. Let's remember 2019, which in this room in... no, 2019 didn't – I'm sorry –, 2015 was the impost of unoccupied habitats. The Government of the Spanish State tried to declare its unconstitutionality. In this case it was saved, but this fate did not have any other taxes, such as an environmental tax of radioactive elements, which was declared unconstitutional, the tax of emission of gases from the atmosphere for the nuclear energy production industry, which was also declared unconstitutional. Therefore, we see that this 78 rule does not guarantee rights, does not guarantee bold policies in defense of the rights of people living in this country, and any intent is absolutely escaped. He said that democracy without taxation is not an effective democracy. I would add that democracy, not just without taxation, but democracy without taxation and without the possibility of completing a tax policy, is not democracy, because democracy needs taxation, but democracy also requires, in order to be true democracies, that the one who exercises democracy can determine its tax policy. And, unfortunately, we have many difficulties in bringing this to an end, because the taxes that can be determined by the autonomous communities can only be levied on taxable acts that do not constitute the State and that do not result in local taxes, and then we find that the margin of manoeuvre is very limited, and even in some ways that could be given some possibility, so there are quite extensive interpretations, on the part of the Constitutional Court, that they do not allow for an end. And what brings us all this nasty situation? So let's resort to long-term debt, above all let's go to the private bank to get this debt, and all these debts come out with Sabadell Bank, with CaixaBank, with BBVA, with ICO credits... And, well, what's the solution to this drama? So bet on a public bank. And now, taking advantage of Councilman Giró, I'll also refer to his past, basically to say that I think you have technical knowledge, right? , because in this legislature we can implement to our country this private bank that has to act as a fight in the construction of this new country, precisely, because we have to stop resorting to this debt to long terms that, in the hands of all these banks, have absolutely secrets, speaking in terms of financial terminology. Therefore, it is not a question, as I asked, of a new financing system, of updating our financing systems; no, this is too late, it is a past screen. What it is to build a new and innovative financing for this country again, because, obviously, we cannot continue to resort to this management of these given taxes, and neither can we continue with these constant plans that we have..., so now there is this FLA of this contingency, now there is this plan to put the piece to another thing. Therefore, it is necessary to change, to make a turn of one hundred degrees and to completely change the model. Some things in the report that I would also like to refer to are that the data from the balance, at 31 December, of the Cat Salut show repeated deficiencies in the area of material immobilization and assets, and that it is expected that 2007 was a working group to solve these needs and, as of today, this is not yet solved, and it cannot be that, as of today, we do not have an up-to-date inventory of the Cat Salut. There is also the recurring theme of administrative concessions of different motorway trams, such as the C-31, the C-32 and the C-33; what is this compensatory account, right? , which seems to have done the Department of Territories, but what is missing is to see these girl audits for the dealers. All this is a chickpea that's been repeated in the reports and that can face it all at once. And, well, one thing that's also hard, is that there's a whole series of foundations and entities that still don't know whose specific administration they're assigned to. If this fails from the inscription to any administration, we understand that there is no type of control and guardianship over these entities. We also want to highlight this anomaly that we assume is granted to companies with Circuits de Catalunya, for the organization of the Formula 1 Grand Prize, which for the year 2019 is 24_million euros. This, then, continues..., is more proof of this absolutely failed trading bet, that they don't bring us anything like society, but that they only have negative elements that we are going to endure and that we hope the government will once and for all finish and quit betting for this type of politics. And also refer to the memoir, where the union tells us that it has reviewed the contents of the General Administration's memoir and noted that it does not conform to the legal regulations that determine which should be the contents of the memoir. We understand that this is a deficiency that can be solved. And on the subject of smaller contracts to which reference has also been made, well, it is clear from the report that it is not that there are fewer contracts than on other occasions, but that there are just now more organizations that notify the existence of these smaller contracts. Therefore, there is an explanation of why there is this increment of the hundred_11_per_cent in the contract of this type of contracts. In any case, reiterate that our position in relation to the report is forbearance. And many thanks to the union for the work they do. "Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.147.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.148.0	Well, good morning to everyone. To thank, from the outset, the work done and the report presented for the major syndicate and the team of the Union of Accounts, for all the work they are doing. I think that it is a useful and necessary work, or necessary and useful, as it is, and that it must help us, in some way, to make our political action, both of control of the government as well as, so to speak, to be able to introduce better to the own, in this case, management of the government's presuppositional economics, right? I believe that what we are debating now is basically three things, say: what the general account would be; the report of the Union of Accounts in relation to the general account, and also validate or not the recommendations made by the Union of Accounts to the Government, which we urge the Government that you do, the recommendations made by the Parliament, according to the report of the Union of Accounts, the Government that you do. We in relation to the general account will abstain and in relation to the recommendations we believe that... we will vote in favour of it, because we believe that it is important for the government to follow these recommendations that need to be improved, in some way, the presuppositional management for the future, so to speak, right? The debate on the general account we think is an important debate. We need to know, in short, whether what is approved of the presumption is real and whether it is good, with procedural correction, with legal correction. So, say so, we need to be able to do this exercise of seeing, validating, knowing the general account from the point of view of this, knowing if what we said we would do was done and done correctly, both in the procedural and in the application of the things we wanted, right? It is true that the first problem we detect when we do this analysis, this debate – I think that this has been repeated by the other speakers – is that we are in the December 2021 and are debating the 2018 report. We're a little out of time. Cal-do, but now discussing the 2018 account is possibly timeless. Now we could see, in other circumstances, perfectly, the general account of 2020, which was closed in July 2021 and was given the opportunity that, in three, four months, we could have already closed this report and seen it. It's not like that. It's not so, because we have some problem that makes it difficult; apart from flushing the earrings, we have a problem that refers to the own Account Union. Possibly, the Union of Accounts would need, along with the issue of the renewal of expired mandates, etc., that we already know and have discussed at other times..., we have a problem, possibly, of the resources available to the Union of Accounts to make a job like this, not only to analyze the general account, but to analyze the set of accounts of the different entities that configure the public sector of the Generalitat, apart from other tasks that must be done in relation to the set of public administrations in Catalonia. The Union of Accounts must have the material, economic and human resources necessary to be able to do the job with the greatest efficiency and efficiency possible. If we do not have these resources, we will hardly be able to require them to do their job more quickly. Outside the country, for Parliament, have the accounts of the year provided for under the assumption that we are debating. It would be well now to be discussing the 2022 assumptions with the general account closed and evaluated for the 2020 union; we are doing this in relation to 2018 and, therefore, say so, with a time lag that makes it difficult to transfer some of the information to 2022, because, obviously, there have been two regular exercises, 19 and 20, that we do not know at these times the detail. We may know what we want, but we don't have the report yet. Therefore, here we should see how the future we try to improve this issue, which goes – I think – through this greater allocation of resources to the Union of Accounts to improve its work; to be able to do it, in short, right? Apart from that, obviously, it's not just a problem with the resources the union has to do its job – it is – but we also have a couple of added difficulties. One of them's out, too. Clearly, we have a high number of entities that configure the public sector of the Government of Catalonia, the public sector of Catalonia. Clearly, this high number of entities obviously makes it difficult at the time to keep an overall view of these accounts. There are duplicates, there are relationships between the different entities and the Administration. Well, in the future we will need to try to rationalize and simplify it, to really see which of these entities, which are theoretically created to make it more flexible and more streamlined..., we need to see if they really give greater agility to the management of public resources or introduce elements of distortion, sometimes, in the own management of public resources, apart from, say, some levels of opacity, sometimes, in the follow-up of accounts, duplication of tasks, etcetera. We will need to analyse whether such a high number of entities is effective or not, precisely for the purpose that they were created at the time. And the other one, already pointed out in the same report, refers to the consolidation of the accounts. It is not only a matter of adding, but of consolidating, avoiding, say, those entrances and exits that are sometimes duplicated and such. It's true that it's advanced, but there's still a way to run. Obviously, if the accounts are presented by the Generality to the union without total consolidation, this also adds work to the time of the validation work, of the taxation of the accounts. That does, in a way, harder than the follow-up and knowledge of reality would be, huh? : another number of entities and this difficulty of not keeping all consolidated accounts. It is true – and the report also points out – that there have been advances in relation to previous years. The application of this new general accounting plan was necessary, with years to go. This is necessary an important element, that 2018 can already work with the new general accounting plan, but until that moment was not. Well, so this is an adventure that I can see, and also what we said, that it's already starting to consolidate the accounts. We'll have to see if 2019, if 2020 has already been done at cent_per_cent or we're still on the way. It seems like we're still on the road, but we'll see about that when they arrive. For what it does to the account as of 2018...Clar, to us the presuppost of 2018 did not like us, or follow, the presuppost of the year 2018 does not like us for various questions. Apart from being extended, because it was the typical extended assumption, but it was a presumption that was based on austerity policies, in a assumption management that did not strategically guide the elements of the recovery or revival of the economy, did not strengthen the public sector... So it was a presupposition that we no longer liked to enter and so on. So the execution isn't either. The execution, obviously, is on this line that we didn't like, but neither do we like the execution for some of the questions that the syndic's own report already points out. Clar, it turns out you handled the presuppost, huh? the general account shows that, for example, in personnel policy, therefore, there is a dangerous trend that has been reinforcing at the length of the years: this tendency to temporalize, to precarious, we might say, the staff of the Administration of the Generality, eh? ; this decrease in the number of staff working and this increase in the number of staff involved, of temporary staff in the final analysis. Well, so, here we have a deficiency that will need to be corrected. We cannot have an administration that tended to reduce the number of staff working and to increase the number of temporary staff. This is temporaryizing public work, public function, and it ends up creating problems, say, of day-to-day management of one's own administration and of the public services to be provided. There is the issue of payment of suppliers. Home, it's worrying that between the 17th and the 18th we double the days of morosity we triage, say, to pay the suppliers, to divide to thirty-four. Clearly, if we compare it to the private sector, maybe we're not so bad. But it is true that 2017 trigave days to pay suppliers and now we pay thirty-four days; it's almost twice as much. Well, here..., it's an element, say, of everyday management agility. There is one element that is not clear, that would be more useful in the future – and that the union should also work on it –: really, if these forms of public-private collaboration are really effective or not effective for the own management of public accounts. And here it would heat to analyze it. There is a good part of the assumption that it is managed in public-private collaboration, through, say, private entities, but we should see whether in this public-private collaboration there is greater efficiency, both in the provision of the service from the point of view of the city, but also from the point of view of the effectiveness of the application of public resources to the end of the corresponding service. And that would be hot, I suppose, in the future, working harder to see it, wouldn't it? There has also been a repetition of problems in public procurement. They are obviously not scandalous, but they are important and detectable. That this happens as much in the general account as it happens when they analyze and are presented the reports of some of the entities that configure the public sector. We're talking about 180,000 contracts, but we're talking about some of these contracts, so they have some reality issues. And so, say, here we have a problem, too, he reiterated, that we will have to see how it is corrected also to the future. And here it would be better to think, sometimes, of a better formation of the proper managers of these public entities, that many times they make important procedural errors, that I prefer not to qualify, but, say, that they should be solved, and that sometimes they are also unaware of the procedures to be used in the management of the public thing. There are also problems in the management of treasuries. I think that's what the syndic says, too. And there's a problem that I think is important, too, by repeating the different assumptions– let's see what happens to 20 when we hold the accounts – that's this shift from spending an exercise to the next exercise. This shift from the expense of an exercise to the exercise following what ends is always detracting from the proper debate of the corresponding assumption, because there's a part that you're discussing in the void, because you don't know... when you're discussing the assumption, you don't know what part of the expense of the previous exercise is that you're going to charge for the next exercise and, therefore, as this and can deframe, to all things, the elements, say, of the presupposition compromises that you've approved, right? Well, these questions... in any case, I think the report analyzes the account enough and makes recommendations we believe to be important, and we recommend that the government should continue to improve the financial management of public accounts, right? , with reference to the issue of consolidation, with reference to the issue of the accounting of assets, of material immobilization, of the obligations pending collection, evidences the problem of the tariff deficit of the ATM... Well, there is, let us say, a whole series of recommendations that we consider to be opportune, and that we are in favour of these recommendations, because we understand that the Government has to undertake to correct their management. For our part, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.149.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.150.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, syndicate, members of the trade union, ladies and gentlemen, today, as usual, we are talking about some accounts of the Generality that we closed two and a half years ago. This time the delay is not as scandalous as we had occasion to prove the April of Encany when the major syndic presented the corresponding reports to us for the fiscal year 2016 and 2017, almost four and three years, respectively, since the closure of the accounts and its presentation to the union. It's maybe over at the palace. In these questions we are still going a little bit, because, if I'm not wrong, this report was approved by the Union of Accounts in December 2020, a year ago, and, if I'm not wrong, that I don't think that either, so, this report entered Parliament on February 15th. More than nine months later, for this report, you see the light or, better yet, it remains in view of the conjunction of Catalonia's citizens by means of the eyes of the Members who represent them. I have already said: « The things of the Palace. In any case, we must be aware of the limitations that the structure of the Generalitat de Catalunya and the forms of working of this autonomous administration in its conjunction impose on the Union of Accounts. We must therefore welcome the presentation of this report and do so. Thank you, major syndicate and union members, for trying to get the generality's accounts to have a minimum of transparency in the eyes of the citizens of Catalonia. The citizens of Catalonia, let's remember, those who support on their spaces the cost, the expense, the deficit and the debt generated by this oversized public administration, which is the first Generality of Catalonia. I don't want to go on without referring to some of the formal questions that affect not only this general account, but also the own Account Union, more than the expiry status of its components. The first of which is the very nature of the union: you are an institution of the Generality, you are a statutory body, you are the external taxing body of the accounts, of the economic management and of the efficiency control of the Generality, of the local authorities and of the rest of the public sector of Catalonia, with the organic dependence of this Parliament, and you exercise your functions by parliamentary delegation with full organizational, functional and budgetary autonomy, in conformity with the legislation in force. But also, you, the Union of Accounts, are a court of accounts, saving their differences, in the autonomic sphere, and they also make a task of controlling public finances. I have mentioned the so much insult to the Court of Auditors, one of the enemy numbers or separatism; that there are many, separatism, of the enemy preference, I would say that even in some cases it has come to be the same democracy. The Court of Auditors is therefore a constitutional body, the supreme audit body for the accounts and economic management of the State and the public sector, with direct dependence on the General Courts. Ras and short, let's remember: it is the most taxing organ in the field of public administration and has jurisdiction over the entire public sector of the State. Ep! I'm going to say it again, counselor – and I've said it more than once from this Faristol – we've been there. The Government of Catalonia has been and is therefore also subject to the jurisdiction of the Court of Auditors. Perhaps what should be done by those who govern the Government of Catalonia is to keep this in mind, above all at the time of deciding which are their priorities of expenditure, because the Court of Auditors can always have something to say. I would therefore like to highlight two formal questions when talking about the Union of Accounts: it is an independent statutory body, it is the external taxing body of the accounts, the economic management and the efficiency control of the Generality, the local authorities and the rest of the public sector in Catalonia, and its task is not incompatible with the taxing task of the Court of Auditors; years on the contrary, it should always be an organ that works closely in the autonomous sphere with its equivalent of national scope and with the judicial aspects that this Court has. In a way, the Union of Accounts, as is also the Court of Auditors in the national sphere, auditing the accounts of the Generalitat makes an assessment of the public policies of the Catalan autonomous institutions. From Ciutadans defenseem– always we have defended– that it is necessary to evaluate the public policies of all institutions. And, in this sense, the Government of Catalonia cannot be an exception. And if we are talking about the general account of the Government of Catalonia, if we are talking about the accounts of the Generality, an essential tool to be able to properly make this assessment, the evaluation of the public policies of the Generality, is to have the results obtained in relation to the objectives set. And this, the results of the management, seems to be one of the bad points of the memory that accompanies the Generalitat's 2018 accounts. I've got the law, the results aside is a precept for a legal order. But what's this about the law? When we talk about the generality of Catalonia, the law is something that forces others, especially ordinary citizens, the people who pay for the party. It is not the only legal obligation that the Government of Catalonia, the Government of the Generality, systematically incomplete, which repeatedly incomplete. But what does legality do here in this debate? So when we talk about public administration, when we talk about managing public money, when we talk about managing an autonomy or a government of any of the administrative levels of our social and democratic state of law, that is to say, of Spain, of the born indissolubly united to which all of us belong, we like each other more or less – to my parliamentary group and to me very much, perhaps not to say it – legality paints everything. Legality is essential for the good government. Apart from democratic legality, democratic legality in Spain, any government can become illegitimate. Therefore, completing the law in force in all aspects is an essential condition for governing and the city of the common, the city of the street, has every right to demand from all policy makers that we have a good presence. And this right to all and every citizen of Catalonia, to invoke it or not. The obligation to respect the law in force, we like each other more or less, we all have it. And, of course, in Catalonia, the Government of the Generality the first. Today we are talking about the report issued for the Union of Accounts on the general account of the Government of Catalonia corresponding to the year 2018. And maybe we're talking a lot about our own union, even in a clear sense of criticism by some parliamentary groups, including the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which I represent in this debate. The major syndic knows very well, many years ago he submitted these reports, so many years that maybe he should have left the cargo. In any case, as far as the whole debate is concerned, I am sure that the syndic knows that, even though it may seem a little aggress, there are no people who write to me about his person, about whom I recognise his full legitimacy in order to develop his institutional capacity in this case. Because even though whoever gives today's face before this Parliament is the auditor, who is passing the examination, who is really the centre of criticism of parliamentary groups is the Government of the Generality. In the case in question, the Government of incapacity, Mr. Torra, was disqualified from respecting a fundamental principle, first, of good governance, not to respect the existing legality and the division of powers in the case of a social and democratic state of law, in the case of a full democracy such as Spain. Therefore, if there are criticisms, in reality these criticisms, perhaps a bit harsh in some cases, they are addressed to the Government of the Generality, to the rule of Mr. Torra. Of course this is in the case of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Therefore, Mr. Amath, without any hint of acridity on the part of citizens towards his person. This does not mean that there are no questions that concern us about how the Account Union develops the tasks it has legally mandated. And that is certainly the fault of this Parliament, because it is the joint responsibility of the Members who comply with this Parliament to provide the Union of Accounts with the necessary tools to develop their tasks effectively and in accordance with the current law. I want to remind here a little more of the functions of the Union of Accounts. That they do not know, these functions are determined by Article 2 of Law 18/2010 of 7 June of the Union of Accounts of Catalonia, among which there are judicial functions relating to acts which may constitute accounting responsibility. In reality, which has full jurisdiction is the Court of Auditors, but the Union of Accounts should actively cooperate with this jurisdictional body every time that you find irregularities in accounting, also when these irregularities are in the case of the accounts of the Government of Catalonia. And that's exactly what he's calling our attention, which doesn't seem to do much. Miri, Mr. Amat, today we will be hearing, of course, speeches that seem to be an enthusiastic happiness for the work done for the union. Yes, adorned with the usual victimism about the public debt that we suffer, I would say that perpetuity, since the obligations contracts for the Government of Catalonia force the following generations for many years. Because the debt contract for the Generalitat is a charge on the spaces of the citizens of Catalonia that is not alien to the continued mismanagement, to the oversize of the Catalan Public Administration, from which even some groups get to congratulate themselves and take 'npit. Groups that maintain, for example, the mantra of the fiscal deficit caused by the oppressive State, i.e. between comets. Groups that justify the misappropriation of public money because those who commit it, repeatedly and who claim to be unpunished, are of their political chord. Groups that speak of fiscal deficit without taking into account trade and credit balances. The fiscal deficit is not an instrument for calculating things in place of the world, but separatism speaks only of this and, from time to time, of language. Groups that complain about the autonomous financing system, when they are the ones who have granted it about the Government of Spain, with the Government of Spain, as is the case of the Republican Left. I what – what a bar! – they systematically refuse to negotiate a new financing system because they only want bilateral relations, and know that these questions are to be decided between the Government of Spain and the conjunction of the autonomous communities, because they affect the conjunction of the Spanish, inclusive Catalan citizens. Groups who complain that the Court of Auditors is exercising its full and in accordance with the law, in conformity with the Spanish Constitution and the democratic laws of application, its jurisdictional task and responsibilities to which it harms the money of all Catalans. But with this sound of background, with these drivers running for the country, watching the citizenry in order not to know the abst of the deception that is claimed by the separatist groups, we find that the union reports are perhaps benevolent in the way of executing the assumptions on the part of the Government of the Generality and of the entities that depend on them. To the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, he pointed out that in a report on the accounts of the financial year 2018, that of the first part of the mandate of Mr. Torra, beginning after the application, we remember, of a 155 absolutely tebi, absolutely low by the Government of Mr. Rajoy and the PP, calls for the attention, I say, that the report of the Union of Accounts does not make reference, for example, to the recidivism in the maladventure, in the misappropriation of public money that represents the reconstruction and expansion of the system of propagandistic alloys of which the Department of Foreign Affairs previously suppressed for the Government of Spain. Instruments of disloyal propaganda with the nation and, therefore, with the citizenry of Catalonia, and in an indestriable way. Or that there's no reference to the grant I'm applying Platform for Language, any rere year, and 2008 too. A group favored by the Government of the Generality with a subsidy in which – and this the own Union of Accounts has recognized it in other reports – there is no justification for the exclusion of competition. And even more so when there are other entities that defend the language, probably without the sectarianism that makes it Platform for the Language, to which they ask the competition to be able to opt for the subsidy. Says the Gospel of Saint Matthew: "Let your left hand not know what the right hand does. This gospel can be of application speaking of Christian charity, but it can never be of application in questions that they have to do with public money. The Union of Accounts can't even be an accomplice to the appearance of impunity, nor can it ever seem so, and it has to be seen that public money managers do with both hands, both the left and the right. From Ciutadans, we are clear about the need for an independent accounting union, which does its job with loyalty to the citizenry, not to the power, and actively cooperates with the Court of Auditors in its jurisdictional task. How many reports of possible illegalities detected in the Generality's accounts have been sent to the Court of Auditors by the trade union? The establishment groups will approve this report today. They will ratify with their vote, in their parliament, the visit to the general account of the Government of Catalonia held by the Union of Accounts; however, that general account is ratified today for this Parliament does not make it necessary for it to be legal, in accordance with the law in force in its entirety. Therefore, Mr President-in-Office, I have already announced that you will not be able to count on ratification by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.151.0	Then, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.152.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Welcome, syndic. I share it with you... you started talking about what was important, or what was surprising that we didn't consider it important to have an active debate on the analysis of the general account. And I agree with you. The one that happens, which is complicated to do when we go three years late, because the debate loses interest, because it loses freshness and loses immediacy. But I do agree that it is perhaps even more important to debate and analyse how it has been spent, that it does not discuss how it is intended to spend, because what it is intended to spend, in the end, many times is not complete. In change, the one that has been spent, does make us a real picture of how the Administration is working. But that's why it's important to keep all the figures. It has been mentioned before by other parliamentary groups: we have an oversized administration, with very many autonomous entities, and the own report, the own opinion put forward manifests that there have been repeated incompliments at the time of the presentation of the figures. This is not possible, it is not acceptable, we should not tolerate it. That is to say, we have to have a real picture of how the expenditure of all the Administration is produced, not just of the Generality, but of all those autonomous entities that are linked to it, because it is a basic exercise in the retention of accounts and transparency, and to this we should ashes. I will refer to three points that seem important to highlight. One is the issue of debt. Any more years, let's see how the generality's debt grows. In fact, the report puts us in full that in the last three years there has been an increase of 10,000_million more. And today we have a very worrying xifra, which is that debt is twice as much as the current General's annual assumption – twice as much. We have a debt that is twice the annual assumption of the Generality. So it's complicated to pull forward – in a private company we wouldn't throw it away, that's for sure – it's not possible. But it is that, in addition, the report tells us that the commitments for future year-end spending in 2018 have already increased in relation to 2017 by three_per_cent. That's more than 100,000 million euros. And, in addition, he adds that, with the €1,351 million that there are different payments in different infrastructures, they are compromised until 2037. This does not only increase debt, but – something more important – conditions future governments, conditions future investments. And today's mismanagement is a negating condition for future governments to come later. The second point I want to make is the issue of the medium payment period – other companies have also commented on it. Today we are thirty-four days old; 2018 we were thirty-five days old – well, one day we went down, and that's not the big deal either. It's not bad – it's not bad –: the law calls us thirty days, we're thirty-four. But, of course, soon as we saw how 2017 was divided into days. So, how is it possible, in one year, to divide it to thirty-four days? They'll double it in the sound of bettering it. If it could be paying on a day-by-day basis, we must try to return to that, because, in addition, at the door of a major economic crisis like we have, it is a benefit that we make to the provider of the Public Administration, and we will relieve them of a burden, which is the delay in charging. Finally, a reference to CatSalut. I think I have an opinion today that you tell us that CatSalut's expense assumption should contain sufficient and adequate credit to meet all foreseeable and unavoidable expenses we should be concerned about – we should be concerned about – because if we have a CatSalut that you have not believed enough or adequate to meet foreseeable and unavoidable expenses, you see a health crisis, you see a pandemic, I don't know how we are anymore. Well, I do know how we are: we are very badly. Therefore, we are talking about an essential service, of primary need for citizenship; it is essential that I have sufficient resources to deal with the services that must be given to the citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.153.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.154.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... First of all, I would like to thank the deputy mayor, Mr. Jaume Amat, for his presentation, his pocket, with all the union team, and, while it is the first year that I defend these accounts from the hemicicles, I know for my companies that his work during all these years has also been a work worthy of gratitude and worth mentioning again. I can't agree more with you with that statement that you made – that I, too, had thought about it – to see a hemicicle so empty when it speaks of one of the most important and interesting issues to be able to do politics, both from the Parliament and, above all, from the Government, that it is a premise. In the end, one administration has two tools: the competitions and resources, the presupposition. The competitions, unfortunately, in the situation we are, until we become an independent state will be no more, eh? On the contrary: with governments that say they are very progressive, but that each time they are more centralists, each time the competitions are smaller. But with resources, here is where we can go fighting – as we have demonstrated in the debate of assumptions, of the handling of assumptions – to be able to do something else. Therefore, it is important to know where they are going and how money is spent once a presumption has been made, that it is a theoretical exercise, but then it has to materialize and be inspected and the results of this taxation presented in a day as today. So I will try, therefore, to do pedagogy, since there are few people, since it is surely one of the fears that the world of communication does not care much, but I will at least do as much pedagogy as I can, eh? , to the networks and where, and above all in the speech, to go beyond what the results of these accounts represent, to go beyond the impact that this has on society, because, in short, as I say, resources are the most important to be able to do politics, apart from the competitions. Well, getting into the matter now, the value of this report is twofold, one more technical and one more political, huh? The tech has explained it very well by the major syndic, and he goes on to say that these accounts reflect the faithful image of what happened during 2018 and the situation at the end of 2018 at the level of accounting financing. So, from this point of view, so, the thing is under control. The policy makes it clear – and it is also emphasized in the report – that Catalonia is clearly underfunded. And, therefore, this is one of the issues that I will obviously be referring to. Also, how did you explain yourself before you were the last ones to talk about it, huh? , that there are things that I will repeat, but that are important–, that these assumptions are, in a way, an extension of 2017. And nobody did anything about what was going on here on 2017-18, huh? Among other things, it was impossible to make assumptions with a 155. Therefore, there was a clearly abnormal situation, in a clearly abnormal country, that has a state that kept its sovereignty in Parliament voted for all the citizens of Catalonia, of the country. That's abnormal, that doesn't happen to most democracies, or to no democracy; it happens here, huh? To the Spanish State, it does happen. Well, to highlight positively, as was also said, that, for the first time, these assumptions include all entities of which, in some way, the Generality participates mostly. And, therefore, this fact that has to be produced, as he said very well, and in the next few years it has to be consolidated, let's hope that as soon as it gets better..., I am convinced that with the Councillor it will all turn out even faster, but, at all events, if you positively highlight that this is the way it is and that I hope it will happen in the next exercises. The report's conclusions will allow me to read them directly – the main paragraph, eh? , at the technical level – it is clear that the general account ‘expresses, in all significant respects, the faithful image of the assets and the financial situation of the Government of Catalonia at 31 December 2018, and also the results of the cash flows and the budgetary settlement corresponding to the annual exercise carried out on that date, in accordance with the financial standard mark applicable and, in particular, with the accounting principles and criteria that this mark contains. So, briefly: the accounts, as I said before, reflect the reality and, therefore, it is black on white that this is so. You don't get that there's no correction, do you? Any person who has made or lived in the world of the company, who is also making tax reports or audits, so there are always corrections. But in this case and as usual, they are minor corrections; in any case, corrections have been made – there has been talk of such corrections and new observations – that, in some way, we are convinced that in the next few months they will be corrected, as has also been approved in the Committee of the Union of Accounts. 2018, plus, as the major syndic also said, I don't know if it was the first year, but anyway it was a year in which they met all the standards we had, huh? The rule of the rule of expense, presuppositional and public debt. Why these two after 2017, for example, didn't come together, huh? ; but 2018, yes. So, also in this sense, so let's go straight and, therefore, it's worth mentioning. Taxing standards for the Spanish State and allowing me to say so – and so I also start the most political part of my speech – unfair standards. Because, for example, the State was attributed that the generality's public deficit for 2018 was only 0.4_per_cent. And, on the other hand, the Spanish State was attributed to it – it itself, the Central Administration, let's say – 0.7_per_cent, when we in Catalonia have practically all the given competitions. That's to say, they made a deficit of 0.7 with the skills that are left in the State and that we don't have? What did they do to the army? What did they do with the courts of justice? A few more things they have, huh? That we don't have each other. Therefore, they, without having any skills respect Catalonia, have the ability to borrow a 0.7_per_cent, when here we have all the skills and above all the burdens– education, greeting–, so, listen'm, we only have 0.4_per_cent. Therefore, I insist that it is unfair. And social security's aside, huh? The social security deficit, 1.1_per_cent food apart. So it's nothing to do with pensions, and so I insist, it's unfair, huh? - It's unfair. It will still be 2022, because with the accounts presented to us by Counsellor Giró, 2022 we have a 0.6_per_cent deficit, and the State has a 3.9_per_cent deficit. I mean, we're still going to worse here. Where are they going to do this? If we have our skills and they have many fewer, where will they do all that? Well, yeah... anyway, we'll see about that. But I insist that they are unfair standards, and, as I said in the defence of parliamentary processing, this year will generate more fiscal deficit than usual, because this 3,9_per_cent that the State of GDP has, of debt on GDP, that for Catalonia they will be about 8,000_million euros, we are convinced that they will not arrive. In fact, they are not presupposed; therefore, they will not arrive. So, it'll be more tax-deficit for Catalonia, huh? It'll be a year away from 18,000 that looks like we're going to be on the 21st, so we'll probably be on the 22nd, or we'll be over 20,000 million. Well, we're still in the picture, aren't we? The situation in this country. The debt in 2018, the debt in Catalonia, ended with a 34.2_percent of GDP. The Spanish State, a 97,6_per_cent. 2022, let's also see how things went: Catalonia will end up included below, 33,8, if the assumption is complete, and the Spanish State of the moment already has 122_per_cent. That is to say, the Spanish State has gone from 97,6_per_cent to 122_per_cent in three years. And we'll move from 34.2 to 33.8, if the assumption is complete. So, listen, we're practically where we were, and the Spanish State has gone from 97.6 to 122 per cent, and rising. Do you know what that means in plain words? Why does everyone understand that, huh? Because we have to do pedagogy, I said so. So that the State had a total debt in 2018 of 1,17_billion euros– 1,17. It's 1.45 now. Okay? Of this 1,17_million, the Generality's share was 78,732_million, as the syndic's report says: 78,732 of 1,17_bilions. Or, that we, our share of this debt contribution is 6.7_percent of all the debt of the State, and we are 16 in the population, we are 19 in economic generation and only 6.7_percent of the debt problem – only! Well, three years later, huh? With this assumption that we have now, we will end up with 86,000_million, we will have put up a little, that's right, but we have the whole basket and we have the situation that we have economics, and the state will have 1,45_billion, if it doesn't get any more, and therefore we will assume neither 6,7_per_cent, we will go down by 6_per_cent. I mean, look at the way things went. We go every time there's less problem and the State every time has a bigger problem. Certainly, Madam Parera, when you say that you do not hold a supposition that has the debt twice as much of the supposition, a country that has twice as much of the debt in supposition. Does the Spanish State know what the rule is? Do you know what the rule of three is? : 3.15. I mean, 3.15 times. The state debt represents 3.15 times its assumption. So if Catalonia doesn't hang out, listen to me, you, maybe when we make independence you'll be the first ones that want to come with us to accompany us. [[Greetings.]] Well, I went fast, 'cause if I don't, here... I won't be there in time at the end. For these three years, more than that, the State has had a fiscal deficit towards Catalonia of 51,000_million euros. More than that, huh? Of all the debt he's had. The FLA that represented us, accumulated, that we had of 58,000_million euros. Where's the lord of VOX, I don't see him? When I said that, above all, we enjoyed the FLA. So look, with the fiscal deficit of these three years, practically no heat or FLA, huh? So these are the numbers we have, and that's how things went. The day we become an independent state, we will still have to review it, because clearly, all this debt that the State has, we cannot bear the proportional share that is close to our people in our economy. In any case, we will only have to assume that debt that the State has assumed to help Catalonia or to invest in Catalonia. And it counts on that, that when we make numbers, maybe someone will fall to the ground, because they'll probably still have to give us money the day we leave, huh? We won't claim them, we'll have enough independence. But probably the numbers are serious about these. Well, in this line, it should be noted that the debt to be assumed by the Generality, so, if we compare it with the volume of taxes paid by physical persons, it was 12,153_millions, of which 9,351 were from the FLA. MPs, MPs, new debt, huh? , because part of it was to cover the old debt, the new debt was €4,400_million in 2018. 4.400_on_16,000 tax deficit. And you can already see that this country without the Spanish State can live perfectly and still have money to do many more things. Because I will not tire of saying that this year 2022 we will pay 52,900_million euros in taxes and only enjoy a presumption of 38.100, and we will have to be indebted, or a share of the receipts will be a new debt of 1,500. Mr. Ordeig said we've never had as much pressure as we have now. But look, our cover isn't where we come from, but where we want to go, it's 52,900_million. We want to live with the fruit of our work. We don't want any gifts, but we want to go here. What else? Finally, I must make a particular vote by Mr Jordi Pons. Certainly, Mr. Jordi put me the record of the first book I read about the tax deficit, which is called The Tax Spoil. A premeditated asphyxiation, the year 2004, together with Congressman Tremosa, for sure. A book that illustrated very well what was the situation of fiscal deficit, of fiscal espousals that Catalonia'spathy in 2004, imagine where we are now, huh? , and where I heard, for example, the import of tax multipliers. Mr Gallego, you like to go to the Sant Antoni market to buy books, I don't know this one read it, but if not, I recommend it, huh? He's still got to keep it there, some day he might find it. So, listen, we'll be working together for independence and all these results that we see as one another. Let me mention a comment the VOX deputy made about the corporate flight and the talent flight. Do you agree with each other, please... between you, please, because the other day Mrs. Lazarus to the Commission of Enterprise acknowledged that Catalonia had not left a single place, eh? which, in any case, what had been done was to change the tax addresses; and that's what happened. So, no company has escaped from here. Don't tell lies because that's not good. In any case, end up saying that we will vote yes in this report. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.155.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.156.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members of Parliament... Syndic Major, very good morning and many thanks one more time for this presentation that today made us the report of the union respect the general account of the Generality of the year 2018. As always, of course, rigorous, didactic, as the union is accustomed to us. I also take advantage of the intervention to thank him for his work at the head of the Union of Accounts, as well as the syndics and syndics, of all the team that today accompanies him and those who are obviously in the union. As I said before, a job always done from the rigour, from the professionalism and the expert in the taxation of public finances, from the respect to a basic institution for the country, under our point of view, and always guaranteeing its integrity. A job that, moreover, we are all aware that they develop more beyond the time for which they were chosen for this same chamber, and that is the responsibility of this chamber, is the responsibility, honourable Members, honourable Members, of all of us working for their renewal, in a just recognition and respect for the institutions of the country. That is why we want to express to him our absolute commitment from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left to proceed with the renewal of the bodies that we have long since expired, and our full will to be able to achieve the essential consensuses, these broad and necessary consensuses that we need to be able to achieve the renewal of those institutions that have their mandates expired, as is the case with the union, as well as the rest of those that are in this situation. Let's wait and work so we can make this renewal without any further delay. Today we approach the report corresponding to the general account of 2018, that the Plenary of the Union of Accounts..., the one that has intervened at a later stage is that many of these things must have been commented on, but I think it is important to put in full, therefore, a report that the Plenary of the Union of Accounts has drawn up, debated and approved since the September of last year, 2020. I mean, almost a year ago we were able to have this debate in Parliament. In fact, this report entered Parliament on February 15, 2021. Therefore, a report, certainly, which, now that we are finished 2021, we are addressing late. And, in fact, a little more recently, in this plenary of Parliament, we will have seen the closure of the reports of the years 2016, 2017, 2018. Therefore, we are moving forward in this work, we are getting up to date, but certainly, that all our prayers are doing what is possible because this analysis and this discussion of the accounts can produce them in time and form, because – I share what Mr Gallego said – it is important to be able to take advantage of this information in order to be able to work in the face of future assumptions. This 2018 tax report, as I said – and I can't help but mention it – holds the accounts of a certain ordinary people for a certain year. A 2018 of harmful memory, where the Generality was still governed by an illegitimate government, imposed by the shameful application of Article 155, which laid down a legitimately chosen government at the polls. We cannot make it clear that these accounts were not executed in a democratic normality situation. Despite the fact that we ended 2017 with the revalidation of an independent majority in the Catalonian Parliament, a majority achieved epically and against all state powers, it was not until May 2018 that it was possible to invest a president of the Generalitat, and it still cost us a little more to be able to appoint the Government of the Generalitat. From twelve months of that year, five of absolute political and democratic abnormality, until it was possible to materialize a government that responded to the expressed will to the ballot box, on 21st December 2017. A 2018 on the Vice President and Councillor of Economy was Vice President Pere Aragonès, because the former Vice President and Councillor of Economy, the Oriol Junqueras, was locked in a prison for having organized a referendum because the Catalans decided democratically our future; in the same way that President Torra was president because President Puigdemont was obliged, for the same reason, to go to exile. Despite this democratic abuse, we can see that 2018 continued the best management and rigour that had started with the arrival of Vice President Junqueras' team to the Economics Council, and we can see it in this report of the general account, as we also saw in the years 2016 and 2017. The first thing to do is to put it in full, and I quote it textually, because so I say the report of the union, is that the General Account "expresses, in all significant respects, the faithful image of the assets of the financial situation of the Government of Catalonia at 31 December, and also of its results, of the cash flows and of the budgetary settlement corresponding to the annual exercise of that date, according to the standard mark, as it could not be in any other way. More aspects than seem remarkable to us: therefore it seems to us also very remarkable the fact that the report is being prepared, as the syndic explained, with a very important change, which is that this aggregate release of the accounts of the Generalitat first occurred and not individualized and summated, as was done until this moment. And, therefore, this first exercise 2018, the General Intervention presented, under the new general plan of public comptability, a state of liquidation of the consolidated assumption of entrances and expenses of the group of entities participated mostly for the Generality of Catalonia. And here, that's a lot of good news, we understand, and that it's cost a lot of work to get here, and we're also aware that, as I said, it's a very good step forward, but we need to finish consolidating in the field of financing all entities. More positive aspects that we intend to highlight: as stated in this report, the Government of Catalonia completed 2018 with the objectives of fiscal stability, public debt and the expenditure rule. This, which are magnitudes that theoretically all administrations have to give, we have to complete, is certain that it was years that it could not be done; in good part, it was generated by the problems that had led to the 2008 crisis, but it is true that until that year we had not been able to complete these objectives of presuppositional, public debt and the rule of spending. And we understand that this is a good show of the good work of the Department of Economics, which he bet to captivate the pre-emptive policies of governments « austere and maintain the essential expense to guarantee our state of well-being by generating all entries, understand that the struggle for a welfare state that guarantees opportunities for everyone and that I do not leave behind is not counterposed, in any case, to the need to manage with rigor and efficiency the money of all Catalans and Catalans. Despite this, we remember that good management did not work because the Government of the State withdrew in no case the economic intervention of the Generality. In fact, this economic intervention, which we already had years back, did not end until the votes of Esquerra Republicana were essential to approve, in December 2020, a general state assumption. Therefore, it was not until then that, despite these good numbers, despite completing the regulations imposed on us in the cases of presuppositional stabilization, public debt and expenditure rule, it did not raise this control of the economic intervention of the Generality. A control, an intervention, which entailed an important complication of the management by the Department of Economy, because it forced to hand over all information, such as monthly expenditure certifications, like other accounting information documents, to the State, monthly with the brutal work that it assumed. More words addressing this report: this bet for good management had been translated into a reduction of the half-time period already paid to providers, the years 2016, 2017. And here we find that the entry of the new calculation methodology, April 2018, has made you increase this average period already compared to 2017, which, I insist, the previous years is calculated in another way. And I repeat: we are talking about an exercise during five months the Generality experienced a situation of absolute exceptionality, ruled from the outside and with very complex situations. Surely the clearest example was – and they must all remember – behind the Diplomat in liquidation. So that's what that government was dealing with, one time it was able to re-govern the country's institutions. Of the seven observations that have been made, most are recurrent observations of previous exercises, and most have produced substantial improvements during 2018. That is to say, it is obvious that the union completes its warning function of everything that has not been done well, as it should be, and that the Generality took note of it and improved its management. In fact, it seems to me to emphasize that in previous exercises, 2015, 2016 and 2017, the observations were as follows: twenty-one and twenty-two respectively, while this 2018 observations are seven. Unfortunately, some of the observations certainly respond to structural problems in management, which, without any doubt, we must correct, but which do not have a solution easy people. Surely, the most paradigmatic example is that it is not included in the liquidations of the assumption of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia and of the Cat Salut on the part of the expenditure incurred in the exercise for lack of presuppositional credit. This is what is known as off-the-shelf spending; the relative syndic explained it – some of the other groups have not done it. But this displaced expenditure, to a large extent, is attributable to the CatSalut – more than €1,300_million – and it is an endemic problem, the result of the historical structural infra-financing that our public health suffers. Every year – and it does as it is at least 20 years – the Generality is forced to move thousands of millions of euros to meet the indefatigable needs of our public health system. And that's what we've still seen, and it got more manifest during the finish and the whole route we're going through from the pandemic. We are all aware that just before the pandemic began, there was a study by Guillem López Casasnovas, of the Professor of Economics, who was presented at the Health Circle, and this study came to the conclusion that we are experiencing an under-financing of 5,000_million euros per year in sanitation, only and exclusively; an import that forces, in order to be able, as it is intended, to cope with this expenditure of salvation, to radically rethink the financing of Catalonia. And I think that after the pandemic, it's more urgent than ever that we talk and see how this refining of our public health policies can be done. Mr. Ordeig told us to fix it. I absolutely agree, let's solve it; it's essential. But to solve it – we all know this – or we reduce the expense, that I understand that the vast majority of the chamber has no interest in reducing the expense to health services, and the other option is that we can improve the financing system. The Generalitat, in pressupost 2022, we push more than 5,000_million euros, one_of_two euros of this increase in expenditure go to Education and to Greetings. Therefore, the Generalitat already makes a huge effort to try to finance our salvation. So, yes, let's solve it, but let's solve it by improving the funding sources of this health system, which is absolutely essential to us. Despite the persistence of some observations, as I said, we understand that there has been an important effort in redefining the recommendations of the Union of Accounts and gradually improving the financial management of the Generality. Today, here, we give a sense of this normality in the Generality's accounts with the approval of this report. We reaffirm that in the management of the Generalitat of 2018 there was no irregularity or presumed legal responsibility for a misuse of public funds. And I need to point this out, because the Parliament has been approving it in the same terms for 2017, for 2016, for 2015, for 2014. And it is curious that a body such as the Court of Auditors has such a different opinion. A body unable to find, in twenty years of widespread corruption of the PP, no clues, but very effective in pursuing independenceists. They did it when they attacked the assets of the President But and Councillors Ortega and Rigau for 9-N, or more recently they did it against the Government of the Generality of October 1, with practices that do not tax the accounts or investigate the expenses of the Generality of Catalonia. What the Court of Auditors has been doing is a subsequent reclassification of expenditure according to its political orientation. Indeed, if a_must investigate cases of misappropriation and corruption, this requires a dedicated and detailed job for which the court is, according to its own presswords, unable. Now, in order to reclassify the Generality's expenses retroactively on the basis of the declarations and ideological orientation of its officials, they are in a situation. I mean, they're stubborn against corruption, but they're pretty full of repression. The Court of Auditors is a specialized administrative organ, for which we have seen, in absolve friends and pursue political rivals. Let's hope, in any case, that these practices have been left behind with the renovation done a few days ago from this court. And far from that, I repeat that today we are debating what we understand as an example of a task, as I said before, to the Union of Accounts, rigorous, professional; a task that we understand as a fundamental to the continuous improvement of the accounting and financial management of the Generality of Catalonia. Thank you very much, syndicates. Thank you very much for the explanations and for the report. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.157.0	Finally, then, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Commission of the Union of Auditors on the general account of the Generality corresponding to the year 2018. [[Matías Alonso Ruiz asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Matías Alonso?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.158.0	Yes, President. To ask for a separate vote on points 1.a, 1.b and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.159.0	1.a, 1.b and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.160.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.161.0	All right. Any more separate voting petitions, from the band we already had from Mr. Ordeig? [[Pause.]] Okay. So we shall proceed to the vote. We vote in the first place on point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has received 60 votes in favour, 16 against and 50 abstentions. We're voting point 1.b now. The vote begins. Point 1.b_has been approved with 99 votes in favour, 11 against and 16 abstentions. We're voting point two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved with 106 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 10 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the report. The vote begins. The opinion of the Commission of the Union of Accounts in Catalonia on the general account of the Generalitat corresponding to the year 2018_has obtained 106 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 10 abstentions. We thank the major syndicate and the rest of the union members who have accompanied us. And we move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission to study forest fire prevention and management]] [[252-00011/13]] The third item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the proposal for a resolution creating a committee to study forest fire prevention and management. This proposal has been submitted for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning and the Parliamentary Group of In Comú May. As agreed at the last meeting of the Board of Spokesmen, there is no provision for the intervention of parliamentary groups at this item on the agenda. However, before we proceed to the vote, and since there are two motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, we ask the two parliamentary groups who are the authors of the motion for a resolution if they can tell us whether or not they accept the motions and which text will be put to the vote. [[Marc Parés Franzi asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.162.0	Thank you, President. Simply to inform you that we would accept Emena 1, we would incorporate it into the text, and we would not accept Emena 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.163.0	Thank you very much. So, then, let's proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The vote on the motion for a resolution establishing the committee of study received 115 votes in favour, 11 votes against. And so, let's move on to... excuse me, can we approve the motion for a resolution by consent? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, They've voted the exams, approved... so get going. [[Proposal for a resolution establishing a specific committee on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and follow-up to the European Union's right]] [[252-00013/13]] Let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is the motion for a resolution of another committee creation, the specifics on the application of the subsidiarity principle and the follow-up to the European Union's right. This proposal was presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Republican Left of Catalonia, Joints for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning and the Parliamentary Group of Common May. As was agreed at the last meeting of the Board of Spokespersons, there is also no provision for the intervention of parliamentary groups at this point. We shall proceed to the vote. I'm asking if approval can be given by consent... [[Pause.]] They're telling me they don't. So the vote begins. The proposal for a resolution on the creation of a specific committee on the application of the principle of subsidiarity and follow-up to the European Union's right was adopted with 116 votes in favour, 11 votes against. We suspend the session until this afternoon at a quarter of four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.164.0	Good afternoon. We resume the session with the fifth item on the agenda, the debate and the vote on the validation of Decree Law 24/2021, of 26 October, speeding up the deployment of distributed and participating renewable energies. [[Decree-Law No 24/2021 of 26 October on the acceleration of the deployment of distributed and participating renewable energies]] [[203-00014/13]] First, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Climate Action Council, Food and Rural Agenda, will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. There's a word from the councillor, Mrs. Teresa Jordà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.165.0	Too late to all and so to all. Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Secretary of Climate Action, Director General of Energy, today soc here to expose them the modifications of the decree law of renewable energies, which have given no to the decree law 24/2021. Today, if I may, tell them that I am here to explain to them the need for this decree, the need to accelerate the deployment of renewable energies to our country, to Catalonia. We have to be clear about that; it's a yes with capitals. But above all I do it responsibly, absolutely responsible. Because that's exactly what this law decree is looking for: do it now, but do it right. Today, in the House, we have to talk to each other and talk to each other again – because, if you'll allow me, we haven't made a guy, all folds, about this matter – to ask them to listen to us, above all to listen to us; to listen to each other and to go to one on this issue, because it is obvious that to make the energetic transition that I bring to this country, we need, sense of doubt, all of them. Mirin, we are ahead of a new paradigm, a new global paradigm; but clearly Catalonia does not get along. We need an energy transition, in this country, to a very concrete model: a renewable, distributed, decarbonized, nuclear-free, participatory and democratic cent-per-cent model; we need a neutral energy transition in gas emissions with winter effects; we need to reduce the vulnerability of our country's energy system and, above all, to ensure the right to access energy as usual. The repte, the repte of the Catalan energy system, is, sense dubte, capital. We want, for a band, to keep fast to dig. That is to say, to meet the demand for energy products from citizens and businesses in our country and, at the same time, that a turn is produced – let me hide it – drastic in the generation of energy. It is essential, absolutely essential that Catalonia fulfil the energy and climate commitments of the National Energy Transition Pact of Catalonia, and the law of climate change. And it's true, we don't have to love each other, if what we want to do is solve it, we're going to die. It's true, we know, we're absolutely aware of it. And we have to make a big jump; a big jump, sense of doubt, forward. Now, the production of electric energy in our country is located around the twelve gigawatts. Dotze aques, only 3.5 soils produce renewable energy. The challenge is that by 2030 we need to expand these three and a half to 14 gigawatts of renewable energy. So in nine years we have to do the same thing we've done with a lot more than a hundred. But we're clear on how to do it. I have explained it on various occasions; and I have done so, too, of this Faristol. And, therefore, let me just quote what we consider our fish as the key to the full route. In the first place, the local energy transition offices. Secondly, the sectoral territorial plan for the implementation of renewable energies in our country. In the third place, the energy transition law project – extremely important. In fourth place, the strategy of bioenergy. In five, the creation of public energy. And if and, as it is obvious, there we start, only the starting point – only the starting point – and the object, too, of today's debate: this Decree Law 24/2021, to accelerate the deployment of distributed renewable energies and participate in our country. In addition, tell them that we take the compromise that yesterday the Parliamentary Group of In Comú We can make public, to appear annually in its parliament to follow the deployment of renewable energies to Catalonia and to prove, obviously, step by step, the absolvement of all these objectives. It is undeniable that resolving the situation in which this decree had left the country was a challenge. It was a challenge that we wanted to undertake, if I may, from the first day I took the responsibility of encapsulating this council. We know that; we all know that and all the presents here, because basically we don't like anyone, huh? – no one –; no one likes the tension that had caused the territory, nor, if I may, the speculative cylinder that it has generated, unfortunately – and it goes to say –..., a cylinder that it has generated, that I understand – I want to hear it – that in no case has it been claimed. And yes, it's true; it's true that we have to assume that this country has not been planned. It has not been planned in the energy of a long time. But it has been decreed. And that, obviously, is a mistake we'd have to look at that never happened again. But irrevocably it is in this context that the Decree Law 24/2021 that today deals with us is not required. And to believe that precisely there is no context and that the energy transition from a white full is, if I may, a hard mistake. And in the same way, believing that renewables are going to push themselves without making him responsible, or making him responsible to anyone, is also a mistake. And no, they won't find us at either end – at the other end. We need to listen to the territory and make them part of the transition. The protection of our values is natural, too. And now we need to understand that, despite the fact that we prioritize self-consumption, that it is important and that we do it – for us, for us, for us, for us, and that we do it – we will not do enough or much less; we will not do it again if we want to reach the goal that we have set ourselves with the country. It is impossible to conceive the paradigm shift that exposed them without acting with the problems that we have in the near end. For this reason, it is a first-level policy need to amend Decree Law 16/2019, because it is the door to a necessary territorial peace, basically to make a strategic planning. Under a climate-emergency scener, we don't have or can't wait any longer. Who do you think is two years old to react, allow'my joy, it's wrong. Who do you think will generate more instability by dealing with this initiative like the bill, too? Both for assemblies, as well as for all those that are invested in renewable energy projects, we need regular. It is essential that we regulate, but in no case do we have to put up with it. So, I'm going to describe them, too, quickly, which modifies the new law decree respecting the previous one. In the first place, while the previous one was only applicable to non-urbanizables, the new one increases the availability of only by adding the urbanizables, both developed and undeveloped. We did so, because the cities, in our understanding – and we are convinced and convinced that we are not mistaken – must also participate in the energy transition. Secondly, the pre-stage phase of renewable energy demand was only used to give a possible locational suitability. But it goes to say that, besides, what it did, what it provoked was to strain in excess as much the Administration of the Generality as, above all, the Local Administration, our assemblies, our people to the territory. Therefore, we have deleted this previous phase and the projects will have to present with all the features of participation and location of the project. In the third place – important, clau, cabdal – is created the table of social dialogue of renewable energies, which has as object the study and the identification of compensation measures between rural territories and densely populated urban areas. In fourth place, also to be consistent with our model, we introduce the obligation to credit the offer of participation of, as at least, the twenty_per_cent of the project to population and administration. One more step, therefore, towards empowerment – for us too – of the citizenry and, above all, the democratization of energy. Five. In the same line, we leave behind projects presented without knowledge – without knowledge – of land and joint owners, to the obligation to present the agreement of fifty per cent of the occupied surface, and communication to the respective joint; a vital point, if they allow me, to come to terms with the problems that currently cause discomfort and concern to the territory. The territory is not a lot of hectares, the territory is a place, an enclave, an address where people live, where many people want to live and develop their life project there – they are not a lot of hectares. Yes. For what it does to planning, the Government has to agree on the formulation of the sectoral territorial plan, what we know as the Plater, for the electric, wind and photovoltaic generation and its storage elements, in terms of six-months to count on the entry into force of this decree. Moreover, they believe the regional energy transition offices, which must implement the Plater to the territory. Set it up. We add articles – this topic may go unnoticed, but I think, we think it's a key issue – from the climate change law to the new legislation, aimed at equipping it, with a sense of doubt, of coherence with the energy model of the country, which requires joint planning of the whole territory. Wait a minute. It is marked as a priority to advance towards the energy self-sufficiency connected in the network between municipalities. So the new decree prioritizes the process for installations connecting to medium voltage or less than five megawatts, to be consistent with our distributed and obviously – back – democratic energy transition model. New. It is a step further, an important step, in the unlocking of autoconsummation in photovoltaics, reducing administrative bureaucracy. Mass we often find ourselves with bureaucratic problems. And you know that, you know that. You know that and they tell us, huh? And in this case, what we're doing is unlocking it. In addition, it is anticipated that the upcoming Habitat Law decree will unlock the right of people living in communities of cities in the region of horizontal property, to make this self-consumption much easier. And lastly, this government will make a very important issue compatible, too, for us transcendental – and in this room we are luckily not talking much about this issue lately, and that makes it compatible with this decree – energy sovereignty with food sovereignty. This is why we will introduce in the new decree the agricultural criteria based on a law that held the support of the majority of the chamber, the law of the agrarian spaces, as well as environmental criteria, minimizing the affectation to the land of high natural value, the affectation to the ecological connectors, the affectation on the species threatened or especially vulnerable to wind farms, as well as the strategic points for the migratory step of the aus and avoid, also, the critical areas of the threatened raptors. As you see, the changes to the decree are multiple. And if I may, too, it means they're substantial, because what we're playing with, you know, is a lot. It's as much as we're talking about the future of our country. It is to know how to take on the greatest repte of the 21st century. That's why I told them we needed it, sense of doubt. And that's not what I'm saying, I'm saying it by heart, I'm saying it by heart – obviously – to everyone, if we want this to go well. Since the coming into force of the decree we want to validate today, a dozen projects have been unblocked – a dozen projects. I think, sense doubt, that we're going for the right path. We cannot continue to tolerate those who always do the same, but with different resources. What we come to do is, if I may, to revolutionize the country's energy, to transform into a place to replace the energy model; there is not enough to replace the energy model, also the way to do it. We are immersed, therefore, in a profound transformation that must be used to change the economic model, but also the social model and also the product model. The global repte of our segle, sense dubte. And this country we have to do, once more, well and captain it well. We need to decarbonize our voids with renewable energies, if I may, responsible. Because lime, sense dubte, punch the speculative bubble of the projects to the territory. Because we want to start a sincere country dialogue; a sincere country dialogue on renewable energies to the territory. Because it is extremely necessary to promote the projects involved and above all proximity. Because we introduce the participation of the local world and our citizens. And, for all this – for all this – they ask them to vote in favour of the validation of Decree Law 24/2021, advancing so, sense dubte and firmly, towards the energetic transition, which also, sense dubte, deserves our country. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.166.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. Remember that, as we agreed at the Board of Spokesmen, it will be the intervention of a maximum of five minutes for each group. The first word is on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Sílvia Paneque.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.167.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Look, counsel, if it is true that we share the international objectives of COP26 in Glasgow or that we want to share directives from the European Union for climate change, what would be hot today is to leave this decree on the table; if it is true that we share that decarbonisation is the goal of the most ambitious economic impulse that Europe has ever made, what would be hot today is to leave this amendment of the decree on the table. An aerogenerator in years. That's the reality: one. It's been years since we said that we have to multiply the renewable energies in Catalonia. And what does the government do? So the government changed the rules of the game twenty-and-four months later than the presentation of the previous decree. I don't think it's easy to explain changes in criteria to companies that have already submitted projects, nor does it seem like a serious way to proceed. With your lack of momentum, decision-making and the negativity of renewables, you have created a difficult problem in Catalonia. And I, look, I wouldn't want to add any more to the fire, because I would say that you've already had enough on this issue, but the reality is that you invalidate and express the decree that pushed Together for Catalonia in 2019. In fact, different views of the council have said that the decree has generated a flood, an abundance of projects. But what is the reality in Catalonia? The reality is that we have a two_per_cent of power..., the two_per_cent that requires decarbonization in Catalonia and that we aspire to the disset_per_cent only in 2030, around the corner. The reality is that the country works with more than one fossil energy source. The reality is that the annual gross energy purchase bill outside is 10,000_million euros per year, a 4.2_percent of Catalan GDP. I'm sorry, therefore, that with these scenes and these data, I don't see this abundance of renewables at all. On the other hand, the new government has indicated that its model – today it has repeated it – will be that of the micromanagement of renewable parks of less than five megawatts with this new decree. And on this question, two points. The first one. Europe – and I repeat: Europe – has indicated that the change requires a eighty_per_cent private investment. The cost, according to data from the own Generalitat, transferred to Catalonia is 57,000_million euros, to allocate 7,381_euros for each of the more than 7_million Catalans and Catalans, almost twice the total budget of the Generalitat in one year. With these data, I hope you will convince me that public-private collaboration is absolutely essential. And the second. Look, you know very well this isn't about parks less than five megawatts. But I do take his numbers, fix them there, we'll need 2,254 l'year 2030; one every two days, and 2050, 12,600; two every day. At your own pace, they'll explain to me how they think they're doing all this. But what's the result? The result of Catalonia is that in renewables we are at the top of all Europe. And that's what everyone knows, and all of you. And the question we have to ask ourselves is, will this decree push us from the bottom to the bottom? And it's a no-round. No, this decree will not pass us on to the capdavant in renewables to Catalonia. Because two and a half years after the climate emergency statement in this Parliament, we are the same. Well, we're not the same, we're worse. Because going does the same thing brings us to worse scenes. And I hope to be wrong, but I have already predicted that, with this decree, in a few years' time, we will be the same: in this pharystoll, regretting the lack of deployment of renewables in Catalonia and the high energy dependence that we will continue to have. And I'm sure it's surprising that a government that for years..., or different governments that have claimed sovereignty in each of the debates in a slow way, when they can exercise it, energy sovereignty, turns out they don't want to exercise it and, besides, they allow an energy dependency bill of 10,000_million euros, as I said. But we will continue to offer to establish a dialog to set targets to have a market close to renewables, to deal with territories where and how, and to drive decarbonization. But today we have to vote against this decree because of the reasons I have put before it, but also because of the lack of dialogue, which has led them to lose a broad parliamentary support which held the previous decree, with only four votes against. You're losing. There is also a lack of dialogue with the assembly of the Catalan economic fabric, which has asked them to leave it on the table. Therefore, there is also a lack of dialogue with economic and social agents. We will vote that it does not because it does not offer any guarantee of completing the international scientific objectives or the most basic European directives; because the rules of the game are not changed; because there is no clear mark of where and how renewables are developed in Catalonia. You said: "We did it wrong, to decree without planning. And what are we doing today, if we don't keep up with some kind of planning and how do we put renewables? And we will ask, therefore, that it is passed as a bill, so as to define a situation to recede, because in our understanding they will have to set some objectives and say how and when we will make possible a catal energy market of renewables without external dependence and with real participation of the territory. What we hope is that all those groups that have shown their differences with this decree will do the same so that they can redirect this scene of energy transition and renewable energies to Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.168.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr. Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.169.0	Thank you, President. Whether because of ignorance or lack of interest, many of you will think that in VOX we are against renewable energies. Nothing further from reality. We advocate the inclusion of renewables in an energy mix that guarantees energy at a competitive price and stability in production. Spain needs to preserve its nuclear industry, which is free of CO2, and which would be complementary to renewables. We agree with the International Energy Agency when it ensures that nuclear technology is needed to reduce emissions, recommending that member countries bet on nuclear as the best partner for renewables. Let us see how you have managed renewable energy over the past few years. Until 2019 an endless number of regulatory changes led Catalonia to achieve the worst results in Spain. In November 2019, to fix the cods approve another decree whose results speak for themselves. Catalonia is the territory of Spain where it is most complicated to install renewable energies and the worst in Europe, thanks to its dear bureaucracy, among other things. This has been the case since 2009. And it is the main cause to explain that while renewables take off all over the world, in Catalonia we continue, year after year, with the accountant almost to zero. And these words are not ours; these words are experts in the renewables sector. We've been hearing the government talk about renewable energy for years, but the reality is that you don't bet on renewable energy, or if you do, you do it frankly wrong. According to the report Renewable energies in the Spanish electricity system in 2020, we are behind Spain in renewables. To give just one example, the solar photovoltaic power installed at 31 of the XII of 2020 in Catalonia is 280 megawatts, while in Aragon it has reached 1,098 and in Murcia at 1,271 megawatts. Now you come with the umpteenth regulatory change through this decree. The employers and companies in the sector have asked that this project be withdrawn because the changes introduced increase the barriers to wind and photovoltaic park projects that are aimed at self-consumption. They penalise the projects already submitted, as it constitutes a de facto moratorium and imposes legal uncertainty on the companies that have submitted them and now run the risk of falling into ruin. They also call for enhanced public-private collaboration and influence that clean energies go beyond wind and photovoltaics. For example, thermals. Renewables must be supported without invading the competences of the State and without breaking the Spanish common market. It is clear that the objectives of this Government are more responsive to their ideological policies than to real solutions. Our region must be at the head of energy in Spain and that is not going to be achieved with the liberticated 2030 agenda, marked by ecohysteric globalists who are only trying to destroy our primary sector and the future of rural Spain. This council has carried out the worst energy policy in history, with a sectarian, separatist, totalitarian and plumber course. The only thing they have been able to do is to charge billion-dollar subsidies to their climate chills for their eco-successful policies. We will vote against this decree. We will, of course, ask that it be treated as a bill to help improve that through the corresponding amendments. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.170.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.171.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, counsel... well, then, with someone else, twenty-four months later we'll be back here. The four of us who voted that wasn't us. In fact, some of you already tell us that we are the ones of the no. But reality is hard. We're back here to debate this decree again, because we certainly did well to vote no, even though we were alone. Because this decree brought us back here in his parliament today to talk to him again, because it's obvious that what he did, so it didn't work. And it is true that we were left alone voting' no. There aren't four of them today. For very different reasons, therefore, they are much more than we will vote for. And you don't know how hard it is to say this, because we would be delighted and happy to be able to vote that yes or to abstain, because we are still advocates of renewables and energy transition, and not of this day, only for many years. And it's hard for us today to add more people to the no, but we are very clear, therefore, that our position will continue to feel that we continue to work because we are doing things right. At the time, the decree, which we voted not to, passed what we said: the territory rose, the assemblies, the regional councils of all political groups – not only the CUP, but also the Esquerra, Juntes, but also the PSC and other parties, right? – they said that this decree clearly harmed the territory and is ugly without consent. So, yes, he did get something, that decree. He succeeded, therefore, that everyone – municipalism, territory – is set up with ecological entities to say that that was not the decree they wanted. And so, when the investment pact came, one of the important issues for the CUP was to negotiate a moratorium; a moratorium on the great projects that the Generality had and has on the table set out in that decree. Because we understood that it was essential for us to put a stop to these macro-projects in order to make a modification of the decree that was adopted here in the direction of the first guidelines of the law of the climate change – not of what we say, but what was approved here – with a democratic model distributed, participated and territorially cohesive. That was our objective. But, as you know, this mortuary itself has never arrived, even though we have lowered our plans, because, as you know, we do not want a mortuary, we directly want the repeal of this decree. But, well, we heard that we have the strength we have, that we had to negotiate and that negotiation means that, right? , also give in to be able to advance and arrive at a change that facilitates a well done transition. And that, then, was not here. Although we do have to say that in this decree that they present today there are a few substantial better ones, compared to later ones – some better ones, therefore, that have incorporated them, as the Councillor has explained – they are not enough because we as candidates decide, therefore, to change our feeling of vote; all the more so that we recognize that there is an advance. But you, counsel, committed yourself to involving the territory in the elaboration of this decree and the ecological entities. And that's not what they say. They felt once again expelled at the time of drafting this decree. We've tried to bring this to you in the negotiation, but obviously we didn't get out of everything as we liked it. However, they know that at the very last hour we were sure of you to try, so we reached a deal of very little for ourselves, but that you justified a change in our vote and move on to abstention, which is what we wanted, because we do believe that it is important and not from now on, so many years ago. But we'll vote no. We will vote that no, as we have always said, even though some try to manipulate what we say or say that we are the people of no. We have always said that we are the people of renewables. We are the people who believe that things can be very good girls and agree with the territory. We are the people we have always apostatized, not only for many years, for a change of energy model based on renewables, based on the participation of the citizenry, a distributed, balanced and territorial model that protects the territory, and not this one that they present us today, which, in our opinion, we do not agree, therefore, fully. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.172.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.173.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise, deputies and deputies, well, Catalonia's bet on renewable energies can only be held at these heights by failures as a country. And it tastes hard, because civil society in Catalonia had always been a pioneer in renewable energies, in defense of the territory, in protection of natural spaces; there had always been a great ecological tradition and a look of the future respect for the ecological transition. We were pioneers all over the state. In 1984, I had not even been born, it was inaugurated the first wind turbine of all the state in Catalonia. And 1991, thirty years ago, the first wind energy park in the entire state. And thirty years later, we've failed all of a sudden. We're supposed to be on top of twenty percent in wind and photovoltaic energy production and we're on the seven percent – and giving thanks – of final consumption. In Spain they are at twenty-seen and demand per cent of wind and photovoltaic energy production. We have incomplete all international commitments in the field of climate change, renewable energy and we have turned Catalonia into an energy desert; into an energy desert that someone will fill. Because that's what's going to be fundamentally at risk is nuclear shutdown, and what's going to be at risk is our dependence on neighbouring communities and, therefore, we need to build very high-voltage lines that cross all of Catalonia. And also – and in this context I think it is obvious that we have to say – we are putting at risk a secure and affordable energy sub-administration for the future of this country. And I think that, with the winter that we are living and the late that we are living in a global energy crisis, it is an element that should be an element of strength to overcome this energy desert that we have built. The Government of Germany has set itself for 2030 an eighty-eight per cent of renewable energy production. This also shows the lack of ambition at the time of thinking about our future, but also the opportunity that we are losing in terms of attracting investments in green economy, renewable energies, electric mobility, electrification of mobility at home. We are losing all possible opportunities, and we have not lost many, already, the last decades. And there's a paradigm shift, which explains very well Andreas Malm in his latest book, in fossil capital, which is an energy shift that forces us to rethink, like the country, our energy model, which is: why in a moment, in the midst of the industrial revolution, where all the factories were generating with hydraulic energy..., why was there a change in coal and after oil and gas? Because they are easy to transport to where there is a workable hand and, therefore, to the great British cities of the industrial revolution, because it is easy to store and because it is easy to use. And that changes with renewable energies. Neither the metropolitan area of Barcelona nor the metropolitan area of Tarragona nor the metropolitan area of Girona will be able to produce its energy, because renewable energies occupy territories and, therefore, in areas where the territory is already very tense, there is little space available for renewable energies. And this requires concertation with the territory as we deploy the country's renewable energies. And, therefore, we understand that, for us, this energetic transition must be an opportunity for the conjunction of Catalonia. And it is in this sense that we positively value this decree. We do not defend the culture of the ball of renewable energies nor do we defend the fact that we cannot deploy the renewable energies of Catalonia, but we defend the same as we defend in the social and labour conflicts that are also given in the urban sphere, that there are mechanisms for concertation and resolution of conflicts that establish mechanisms for compensation and order of debates and conflicts that are given in our country. We therefore welcome the fact that there is a table of dialogue between urban and rural areas in order to agree on compensation; we welcome the fact that this decree opens the right to citizen participation in energy transition; that it protects natural and agricultural areas; and that there are measures against the massiveization of projects in certain areas of the territory. We have already announced: we will vote yes in this decree. And we hope that we will go further in renewable energy policy in this country. This must be the legislature of how we think of Catalonia's public energy and how the public sector is driven by renewable energy, and how we think and design an energy transition law that defends and builds a decentralized model of renewable energy production in our home. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.174.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.175.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillors... well, I don't think it surprises anyone, but don't count on us either for this decree. Too much paralysis, too much legal uncertainty, too much demagogy. We are not going to collaborate with this purpose and, as far as possible, we will try to dismantle their lies. Renewable energy in Catalonia is shameful, a real failure – we just heard it. I don't know how they don't feel ashamed when, on the one hand, they are the first autonomous community to boast of declaring the climate emergency and, on the other hand, they do such demagogy with the energy that they will force us to continue to depend on much more polluting energies. Catalonia needs to put into service, according to its own data, seventy-thousand megawatts of new renewable generation capacity before 31 December 2050. Mr. Ferro said it had been a failure so far, and now they pretend to be, but saying they want him to stop being. That's exactly what you've been doing so far. A couple of years ago we adopted here a decree law, 16/2019, which was a small step in the right direction. For those of us who don't know, we've had a decade – it's also been said here today – of total paralysis in the wind power installation – a single mill in ten years. A paralysis, by the way, which was carried out in a very dirty way, and which I believe is how it is intended to continue, on the basis of arbitrary extensions in the procedures. No one said that wind could not be implanted, no one said it, no one assumed that statement, but it was impossible to get a permit. That situation was unsustainable, and that led to the 2019 decree. There were defined requirements and defined also..., sites were concrete. It was legislation that was already much stricter and guaranteed than any other regulation in the sector in the rest of Spain – I invite anyone who wants to check what, what can do, that comparative legislation. Many limitations and many difficulties, but at least left some room for those – I would call them bold – who might still want to invest their effort and money on our land with a business that we also need to have a more sustainable future. He had a good answer – it has already been said here too –: a lot of investors were received willing to invest their money. They're still brave enough to invest. And I don't know if that's exactly what's bothering them. They were much more comfortable in absolute paralysis, and I suspect that's where they want to take us back. Today they bring us a decree to validate, Decree Law 24/2021, which almost demonizes those who saw in the decree Law of 2019 a small hope and an opportunity to move towards a richer, more prosperous and more sustainable Catalonia. The decree that bring us today not only limits even more the zones of implementation of wind farms, not only obliges to offer participation to the neighbors in the ownership of the projects – as never seen in other sectors – but also imposes retroactivity on projects that in reality should have been in place for a long time if it were not for that covert moratorium that in his words has even been able to be deduced. Again that fucking legal insecurity that we're never going to cooperate with. Counselor, you are in charge of a council that you called "climate action" – many more things, but start with "climate action" – and you, neither action nor climate. They could have called themselves the "counsel of moratoriums and setbacks, which at least they could have assumed they were not trying to deceive anyone. It's just that I'm sure, I'm almost certain that I don't offend you when I tell you that you bet to go back to the past, that you bet to lock us back in our caves, with our clans, that no one comes from outside, that no more is built. And of course it may be an option, but, if so, they should defend it with all its consequences. Because if you want to paralyze everything, explain it clearly and stop fooling people. What they can't is sell a future where they say there's not going to be nuclear, there's not going to be wind either because it bothers them to see it and there's not going to be emissions; that can't be. They can't say that we're not going to have an airport..., that it's not going to grow, but that we're going to be an open community to the world and well connected also internationally. They can't say we're going to have a living city, with customers in bars, shops, kiosks, but we don't want tourism, because that doesn't exist. And they can't say they want a country, a less wealthy community, but with public services, with vaccines or with social services. Tell the truth and, above all, tell the consequences of your actions and decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.176.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Salvador Vergés. [[Pause.]] Excuse me. Effectively, thank you for having noticed me 'hofet. It has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.177.0	Yes; so thank you very much, President. The truth is that Catalonia – it has already been said – is one of the least developed communities of renewable energies. In fact, of the total of Spain, only a 4.9_per_cent of wind and less of the u per cent of photovoltaics. While in Spain fifty-four percent of energy is renewable, here in Catalonia we arrive at thirty-four percent. If you want to look guilty outside, the reality is that state law affects all autonomous communities alike. So if renewables are developing in the rest of the autonomous communities, but not here in Catalonia, it means that the problem is here. And I think this should be the starting point. In fact, you fill your mouth and always repeat that we have the greenest government in history. But I think it's green, but not by environmentalist, but green by immature. And this decree is not an example. Far from facilitating the deployment of renewable energies, so they continue to pose barriers, making it impossible to achieve the compromised objectives. The reality of what is happening today is that promoters – also promoters from here, from Catalonia – avoid investing in our territory because of the difficulties and go to other autonomous communities, such as the Aragó, and then project very high voltage lines to bring energy to Catalonia; that this is not understood, it is quite surrealistic. And we have two current cases: the very high voltage line Valmuel-Begues, and also the Laluenga-Isona line. They're examples of what's going on. Why? Because we stick to the wheels and, therefore, these promoters obviously go to other autonomous communities. So, what do we have? So we have more environmental impacts and more costs, with this situation. This new decree, which, it has been said, amends the previous one, on 16/2009... we, from the People's Group, in fact, have already abstained from it. Why? Because we disagreed that there was that strictly governmental stance that was the discretionary decision of the renewable parks to authorize. And that continues to feel that way with this decree. I'd like to talk about some of the changes that this new law now makes. For example, for the processing of parks, the difference between the less than five megawatts and the more; the processing of the less is indeed simplified, but the more than five megawatts are complicated. Currently, there are more than a dozen projects of less than five megawatts that benefit – up to five megawatts – while there are 3,500 megawatts, in projects of more than five, that are harmed. This decree, moreover, introduces the obligation to offer local participation, as at least the twenty_per_cent of the property. It also requires compromise on the availability of fifty per cent of the land. With this decree it will not be possible to simultaneise the declaration of public use and the administrative authorization without the agreement of the owners of the eighty-five percent of the surface to be occupied. And, as I said, therefore, the question, which we have already opposed, continues to be strictly governmental and, moreover, is that now it is obliged to transfer from the requests for authorization to the joints, but the joints continue without saying in the projects. In addition, it creates a social dialogue table – which I think will have to explain a little more – to make proposals for compensation between rural territories and urban areas to meet 50% of the energy demand in renewable generation of proximity. And, in addition, this decree also calls for the creation of a working group to set up a public renewable energy company. Finally, we too are left with it – and I believe that, moreover, it is very legally questionable – that this new decree may interfere with those processings that originated in the framework of the previous decree. It's that this is a principle of retroactivity that, in fact, I insist on, I think it would be very legally questionable. Therefore, conclusions: in relation to the current projects, this decree benefits from the installation of a maximum of ninety-five megawatts, but it harms 3,500 megawatts, councillor; it will make it difficult for us to design and also slow down processing, which will prevent us from achieving the goal of 50 % renewables by 2030, and, moreover, the joints may have more information, but they will continue without having it. Therefore, we will vote against this decree and, in any case, if we were to approve what we would ask is that it is possible to proceed as a draft law in order to be able to seek an alternative text that generates more consensus and, above all, that does not generate this legal insecurity that brings us this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.178.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And now, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.179.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, advise, deputies, deputies, look, the energy transition is not like football, which everyone sees himself as having an opinion; it is a technical issue and must, in this order, be given, that there is a debate with the territory and that there is urgent and responsible action. That's why I've made this diptic, which is to collect contrasts and solid arguments, so we can beat each of the most populists I've ever identified. And what does that mean? So it means that we have time, they say, that there are no mills, that everything has to be done with the city, that each region has to settle its own, etcetera. And at the end I also explain the difference between which one and which one hour, because, without hearing that, it is absolutely impossible to speak of energy transition with property. So, first of all, a few dice. 2030 we have to reduce emissions of 44_million_tonnes of CO2 equivalent to dist. We need to move from the current 20 per cent renewable electricity to 50 per cent, while Scotland has a north-set-per-cent, or, for example, Denmark, a country similar to ours, has 60 per cent, and that does so with more than 6,000 mills, when we in Catalonia have 811 at this time. You think we have a five-per-cent supply of energy that we import, and 2050 we have to go to zero, because being independent also means energy sovereignty. What we can't afford is for us to move forward on the right side of projects that come from Madrid, for which we don't have any skills, of more than fifty megawatts, or other people who take advantage to come and escape and matte with their towers, joining us in the territory. Reaching forty-seven, sixty-seven, according to the scenario, gigawatts by 2050, to be able, therefore, to accomplish total decarbonization and denuclearization, this involves a project of five megawatts a day. This means roughly one moth, or approximately seven football fields of solar plates a day. This inversion is 5_million euros a day. This is the tragedy – welcome tragedy – that we have with renewables. Twenty-i-three_per_cent we can do with solar plates – only twenty-i-three_per_cent. Therefore, we need to boost self-consumption, and as long as we do, but with that we will not do enough. And more numbers for realism. If we take into account that in the energy produced by a solar gigawatt we need two solar gigawatts, because the wind works with twice as many hours equivalent to the year that the solar, this means that in order to get these renewable deu-dotze gigawatts by 2030, which means a renewable gigawatt the year, it translates, roughly, if, say so, we apply fifty_percent of photovoltaic and fifty_percent of wind, with a thousand football fields of solar plates and eighty-three mills. This pack in the year, every year. This is an investment of 1,000_million euros a year. Therefore, realism. We will need businesses, obviously not oligopolies, but companies that invest in renewables. And today's an important day. We agreed on the Republican Left today, and we agreed together on the new law, but finally not on the bill, because it's eternal and we don't have time. What we've done is some reviews, some good reviews in the accompanying measures bill, because the issue is urgent and, therefore, we need to take advantage of all the tools in our vicinity. And we ask and ask the other groups that are also joining in this measure, to support these items in the accompanying law, so that we have a text that then allows us to fulfill the objectives of the energy transition with the responsibility and collaboration of everyone, of administration and of citizenship. And all this combined with a progress that must have some dematerialization and great efficiency. We have to leave the gas, the oil, the coal, the uranium. All this we have to make it quiet under the ground, and we have to take advantage of the energy we have outside, which is the energy of the sun, the wind, the power of water, which is the energy of biomass. Expert Joan Vila explains that the energy transition to Catalonia will represent a loss of some 14,000_million euros in GDP. And why is that? So for petrochemistry, for the loss of combustion car factories. But what do we have in the other gang? That can earn 19,000_million euros in GDP. And why? So why do we have the green hydrogen valley in Tarragona, we have batteries plants, electric cars plants. We need to know how to take advantage of this. And to increase, obviously, the weight of renewables in the mix of the energy market, which is marginalist, will also represent us being able to lower the insurmountable price of electricity, where I smelled the poor management that is being done by the Puertagictorio Government of Spain, and that today more than ever, with the news that has come out this late, goes from the hand of a Supreme Court that is close to Poland. [[Greetings.]] And from Junts we won't relax. We will continue to claim a commission, and we will continue to claim that there is an external independent assessment, whether it is Germanwatch or any other climate institute, because if that decree is not enough to meet the objectives that we have set for 2030-2050, we can go to release certain requirements that we have, at this time, contemplated by law. Let us not forget, as the esteemed Councillor Rull says, that plates and mills are reversible, but the climate change is not. That's what we keep in mind. And finally, thank the great work done by Congresswoman Gloria Freixa, also former Congressman Pep Puig, and especially in Manel Torrent. And since it's a thank-you thing, I want to dedicate it to you too, Joan Canadell. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.180.0	And finally has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.181.0	President, Counsellor, MPs, MPs, companies of the Department of Climate Action that accompany us, the secretary and the Director General... Parliament has called for two times, the year 2020, to improve the decree of renewable energy impulses of 2019. In the previous legislature, finally, it did not come to any proposal, but now the Department of Climate Action has prioritized it and brought it to approval to complete the investment agreements, to seek the maximum social and territorial consensus, and also because it is more urgent than ever the deployment of renewables; it is vital to us. Vital, because the implementation of renewables has advanced slowly to our country, and it is up to push it strong, but not in any way. We cannot fall back into the teranyina of the rotating doors and energetic oligopolises. We cannot limit the energy transition to a simple change of fossil resources for renewables, but we are obliged to create a real model change. And the change in the new decree is exactly what this Parliament called for in the previous votes it had raised. On the one hand, the objectives: to set targets for distributed renewable energy and to facilitate the administrative processing of self-consumption; to promote self-consumption and energy communities in front of distributors; to instruct the Government to submit a territorial planning of renewable energy; to propose that territorial planning is based on the demand for each of the markets; to establish a social dialogue table for renewable energy; and to set, for example, a twenty-percent of the project's ownership or funding for social participation. That could sound like words from the councilwoman or myself as the deputy, they're not. They are the words of an entity that I think has no doubt to be part of the government this Jewish independenceist, is from Greenpeace Catalunya. Are they ringing? A reference entity in the fight against climate change and in the defense of biodiversity. But he is also responsible for Greenpeace Espanya's climate change program: "The decree law of renewables that is expected to be passed in Catalonia, although improved, can serve as a reference for other autonomous communities to address in positive way the renewable development seeking the good of the people and without falling into blockades. Let's hope he doesn't get stuck in party disputes. And this is where Greenpeace was putting our cry to the cell and wanted the debate we had today not to end, for these party disputes, to stop, if it's handled as a bill of law, one more year his deployment and the impulse of planning. And it's that if it's not for party disputes, companies and PSC companies, we don't just hear where you are. The previous decree he was applauded, approved and did not ask for processing. It wasn't the ideal decree, we weren't all aware, and as I said to the beginning of my intervention, all of you, too, agreed for two times in this hemisphere that it would be better to improve it in terms of how the amendment of the decree lays down. Moreover, the motion of June 17, 2021, a motion of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, the motion 6/XIII, laid, for example, at the first point a rural pact and metropolity; the second point, prioritising community cooperative projects with participation and self-production, facilitated by renewable energy communities, etc.; the fourth point, prioritising the use of non-productive agricultural areas and industrial land of low economic activity for photovoltaic parks. And other points, which do not give me time to quote, but that all of them, all of them, in their motion and with their votes, are included in the amendment of the decree. But not only that, at the 14th point of his young man, he had to change his law decree in six months. And here he is. I suppose having an imaginary government, with a plan of imaginary renewable energies, as it was presented yesterday to the press wheel, allows them to make this party when it suits them, and above all before a key issue such as the energy transition, when what they should do is an impulse, a gesture of responsibility and trying to lead in a key issue for the future of the country, of the territory, of the economy and of the salvation of all. But we already know, one hand you have great green and fighting proclamations against climate change, but the other you have the small letter of these proclamations that are signed for Development and for oligopolises. Unfortunately, however, the green transformation in this country will continue to move forward, and it will follow thanks to a decided government, a councillor and a decided president. In this sense, I would like to thank all those who have made it possible for this decree to follow; to which even if they vote no, but who have helped us to improve it, and to those who with their support today will be possible. Today's a big day, but there's a lot more to do. It is only a first step in the future that will come, such as energy transition, public energy or territorial planning. We are here to do it, we are here to defend this transformation, to make it effective and to do it as we have always done, alongside the people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.182.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The debate was over, and before the vote, the councilwoman asked to speak. And by virtue of Article 85.6 you can use the word to direct a general grace without turning. So he'll advise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.183.0	No, nothing, very quickly. Only to give general thanks to all parliamentary groups. It is obvious that with some we have understood more than with others, but sense doubt the opposite is immense and I hope to count with all and all of you to make this transition possible and embrace our goals. And a last thanks also to two women who are with us today, who have given their lives to Eugene and Meritxell, and to all the other Members who have allowed today to be green in this decree. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.184.0	Thank you, Counselor. So now, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall proceed to the vote, I understand that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, which received 72 votes in favour and 60 votes against, the Decree Law 24/2021_has been validated. [[Greetings.]] According to Article 158.4 of the Rules, a valid copy of the decree I ask the chamber if there is any group that wants to process this decree as the bill. [[Pause.]] As far as the petitions put forward by parliamentary groups are concerned, we are voting on whether or not this decree is to be dealt with as a bill or not, I understand that the votes claimed are in favour of being dealt with as a bill and the denials to the contrary. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, Decree 24/2021_is validated and will not be dealt with as draft law, with 53 votes in favour and 79 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[Decree-Law No 25/2021 of 2 November, establishing organisational measures in the field of social and health care]] [[203-00015/13]] Let us turn to the sixth item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 25/2021 of 2 November, for which organizational measures are established in the field of social and health care. First of all, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Health Adviser will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. The word has the advisor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.185.0	Many honourable President, ladies and gentlemen, we present for validation Decree Law 25/2021 of 2 November, for which organizational measures are established in the field of social and health care. It is a law that allows us to finish ordering and integrating certain socio-sanitary resources into the public health system of Catalonia, for the benefit of the citizenry, the entities that provide these services and the coherence of the model. I'll take a short look at the background to this socio-health model and the situation we've been in so far, to end up with the benefits of the changes that this decree introduces. In the year 86, 1986, the Department of Health student created the Life-to-Years programme to improve care for large and terminally ill people. The program integrated social services with health care in the same performance, but later, with the creation of the Department of Social Welfare, year 88, the program became an interdepartmental program. The year 1990 was approved by Decree 215/1990 of 30 July 1990 on the promotion and financing of social health care, which provided for coordination and health and social planning, and laid down criteria for the financing of social health resources. This decree establishes funding through health support and social support modules. It provided for co-financing by the user, social support, for which, in the long-stay places and day hospital of the socio-sanitary services, from the thirty or ninety days, according to the moment and the historical time of occupation of the person, it was necessary to realize a co-payment. The year 99 was created, by means of a decree, the network of centres, services and social health establishments for public use in Catalonia, and here it is defined the set of services and objectives of this network, and in 2006, the social health director established the groups of priority care patients. Also, the co-coupling of the social module was maintained in the long-stay and day-hospitalization services. It is therefore appropriate to adapt this situation to the current reality, since both the health system and the social system have evolved a lot in these years, and we have, therefore, facts like the aging of the population..., which has made us plan, develop and strengthen resources to respond to this reality. The social worker, the social worker, is integrated into the primary care and care teams and the mental health care network, and forms part of the planning and funding of the department, or the social health care network, which has long been consolidated and evolving to the intermediate care hospitals. The Department of Social Rights, in the framework of the Social Services Act and through the Social Services Portfolio, has also deployed and strengthened the network of services directed at large people and dependent people. At these times, the Government's goal is an integrated, social and health care to respond to the set of needs that people have in a situation of chronicity, vulnerability or dependence. It is therefore a long time since the mark that inspired this decree of the year 1990 has passed. In agreement with this, it is essential that social and health care is managed with the utmost agility, so that it becomes managed in its totality, and the existence of the social and health care system makes it necessary for one service to be managed administratively by two departments. They duplicate administered processes at the level of tariff, circuit, billing or payment development. It affected the Department of Social Rights, the Catalan Health Service, and all providing entities, and ultimately also, and most importantly, the citizenry. For all this, the decree approved for the Government, and which we now subject to validation, establishes the elimination of the social module and the integration of its import into the financing of the social health service fee made by the Catalan Health Service, in order to ensure the proper functioning of these services. In the assumptions of year 22, in the assumptions presented to this chamber, a part has already been entered for the financing of the part so far corresponding to the social module of these services. With the integration of the social module into the health tariff, rationalization and coherence are achieved in the dynamics of functioning, and there is no longer any claim to the citizenry for the co-payment of the long stay and the day hospital, which was linked to their relationship with the social servants, in this case. In this way, some patients and family members are burdened, who, given the type of appeals we are talking about, often experience difficult and difficult situations. It is, therefore, a step forward, also a step forward in health integration and social and health integration, that the decree you can today be validated for this chamber and so referencing this model. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.186.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. And this round of words, as we agreed at the last Spokesman's Meeting, will be five minutes for each group. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group to advance, the MP Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.187.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, look, we'll give support to this decree, I'll tell you in advance. And it is true that we share this objective of integrated care, social and health care, but it must be said that, by sharing its objective absolutely, and even the whole name of the decree, "organisational measures in the field of social and health care, is too much for which the decree is. The decree is putting order in one thing... you explained it very well, didn't you? : came from the programme "Life in the years of '86; that since the law of 2003 this was still more out of place; that it is obvious that this co-payment in the framework of health services is considered highly atypical, and, moreover, between professionals and users generated differential situations in the same centre. So, just fix it, and that's what's there. Now, to me, let's just say it, I absolutely agree that we have to go to an integrated attention. In fact, when one read the papers in the decree, his justification said: "At these times, the government's goal is integrated, social and health care in different fields of action, which is based on joint actions of professionals, who have a unique vision of shared goals and care plans. I understand that this is what you want to do through the social and health agency; so, I think that... I was excited, huh? When I read the title of the decree, I thought, "We're moving forward with the agency, aren't we? I recognize my frustration. Among other things, because the big people represent a twenty-i-five percent of the population. And, besides, we know that when they have..., or become infected with the vat, they are difficult and very complex cases and, therefore, they increase much more the referrals to the socio-sanitary centers. And that's what we've been able to live for. As we have also been able to live the debt that we all have with our great people and, therefore, attend and discuss in truth what is the residential model we want. Which is the residential model we want, which is the socio-sanitary model. I think the pandemic... maybe we've seen it before, huh? And we weren't so conscious, but the pandemic has put a lot of white on us. And, therefore, we need to work on a comprehensive and integrated care network that goes far beyond words and is a reality, because they need it and deserve it, the big people, and that's it. Let me tell you, because I already told you that we will support you and that it seems logical to me that we end up with this coveting that you don't have a lot of sense and that you go all the way into the common basic portfolio of care services, that you don't admit the coveting, because in the background it's health care... It's also true that in this residential model debate we will have to take into account at what age people went to residences or do this option, and so we also do with home care. And, therefore, if people are bigger, more needy, sometimes, more health care than social. And this is a debate that I understand is not easy, because there's always... everybody stretches, even from within their own parliamentary groups. But I told her we're missing an opportunity. When the transfer of health care services from prison to Salut was made, the entire staff also crossed over. And here there is a certain demand from the staff, that part of it may be... that you serve social services, that you are optional and that you have quite different working conditions and wages than are the ICS workers. I believe that here there is a missed opportunity to speak and to integrate this health care staff who are in the area of social rights, who must be very little, but that, in any case, if they do health care, if they do health care in the residential market, we have lost the opportunity, now that we have reordered a little and passed on assumptions, that these staff have their recognition. And their recognition passes because you are equated, among other things, in all that are the labor rights and wages of those who can also reside in socio-sanitary but depend on sanitation. And, therefore, that a little structure is broken between social rights and sanitation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.188.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.189.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Well, after reading his decree carefully, we came to two conclusions. The first is that they do not know the actions included in social and health care. And the second is that the poor management forces them to try to control such a complicated area through a single channel, because they are unable to gear the machinery through which the two departments operate in an integrated way. According to the website of the Generalitat – and I read – "social health care includes the set of care for those sick people and people with disabilities who, because of their special characteristics, can benefit from the simultaneous action of health and social services, in order to enhance their autonomy, alleviate their limitations or sufferings and facilitate their social integration, which means that they not only need health professionals. The health of geriatrics, psychiatrics and people with special needs not only involves endless medical and hospital issues, but also requires the work that must be done Social Rights, which is the person in charge and the connoisseur, or at least should be the one, to analyze the work and social obstacles with which a person with a chronic problem who wishes to continue with a life within the social fabric will be found. That is, normalizing your daily life and adapting to your routine, such as meeting your socio-economic needs, or having social policies and services for work reconciliation and family cohesion. After the first reading of the decree, they almost managed to entangle us in their web of incompetence spider for management and coordination. « Single window! – we think – « At the end they have heard this parliamentary group. But nothing further from reality. And it's just that the one-stop shop doesn't mean one-stop management. After analyzing several European examples, we find that no country leads to draining all the tributaries of what social and health care involves in a single department, because, in common sense, the two councils should work in different fields for the proper functioning of this area, in order to reach a joint end – that would be the one window – that would facilitate the procedures and reduce the bureaucracy, that gets many of the potential users never to come to an end or come late, as is happening. But of course, we're talking about the Department of Social Affairs, the manager of the geriatric residences, and the one that at the time covid has proved to be unimaginable. We talk about the residences that are managed by Mutuam, which is a genuine agency for the placement of exconvergents, from Archés Suriñach to Francesc Brossa, passing through the president of the College of Doctors, Mr Padrós, who enjoys a high position in the technical advisory commission. We talk about the feudal residences of Sumar Acción Social, managed by the client network of Junts, from its president Josep Maria Vidal Vidal to all its advisors, such as Jordi Soler Casals. And we talked about his concerts with another group related to Esquerra Republicana, L'Onada, of Cinta Pascual, who has billed the Generalitat huge amounts while diverting patients with very dubious health criteria to their centers; that is, with the approval of the former social rights councillor and the former health councillor, taking advantage of the covid contingency. The Government of Catalonia has endorsed that phrase of 'do not leave anyone behind. What they had not clarified to the Catalans was that when they recited this mantra they meant not to leave any of their friends behind, and that they would get it at the expense of the most vulnerable. They now propose, with this decree, to tackle the problem posed by the ineffectiveness of the council of Social Rights and its harmful policies of cards castles, exonerating Mrs Cervera from responsibilities and further undermining the department's powers. And they show it to us with a unique window wrapper that our parliamentary group demands wherever it has a voice. The summary is that the solution you propose to the incompetence problems of the Department of Social Rights is to omit your obligations by overloading the Department of Health. Fat brooch to disguise a blow job on the wall. We'll vote against it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.190.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.191.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we had a little bit of the same thing that Mrs Escarp explained, that we read a title, imagine a series of things, read the decree and say: "Well, we didn't know exactly where the novelty is or where the change is. And, therefore, it generates a lot of doubts, this decree. It creates doubts, because we understand that it doesn't go to the scene of things or it doesn't change much, beyond passing on a management. And, therefore, it loses an opportunity; it loses an opportunity to really approach this integrated attention, which is indispensable and which we understand is late. And it's true, this need came to light in the pandemic; a need that was already clear, but that during the pandemic it was much more obvious, wasn't it? , and generated or placed on the table the need to order the entremat that exists, no longer only in the health system, but also in the socio-sanitari. But we have doubts, or basically we don't see that this decree resolves the situation when what it does basically, do we? it is passing all health care as managed by the Catalan Health Service, but it does not address what we do with Histia, with DomusVi, with Mutuam. What do we do with all those health-care partners that they do is generate benefits and seek the benefit for the private enterprise. A debate that has taken place here on various occasions is like, through health care, avoiding those businesses that are looking for a job. Some of the defences that must be a one-hundred-per-cent public service, management, ownership and provision of public services, but what the majority in this Parliament had established a few years ago was that, as a minimum, there was no work to do; but, in the alternative, what we end up doing with this decree is absorbing or passing on to the Catalan Health Service all a social health care without going into discussion about it. And, therefore, we have socio-sanitary services managed by Histia, socio-sanitary services managed by DomusVi, that we remember that the year passed or two years ago closed with more than 22_million benefits. Therefore, a servant of the Català Health Service to give attention, which should be and which should be universal, which is basic for salvation in the wide sense of the word, what we facilitate is that there are those who do business with this. O Mutuam, which manages socio-sanitary services and manages PADES in Barcelona and Girona. I will not be in what it is Mutuam and what Mutuam has assumed for both health care and social health care services for many years in this country. Therefore, we cannot share this law decree. And, as I said, it's a missed opportunity to actually address a clear reform and address what is the social and health care we want for this country, not just making a change of organization chart at the time of management. And that also leads us to some thoughts around how it originated, doesn't it? , this change that I said before, that is caused by the pandemic or that causes it to hatch during the pandemic. And at that time it was necessary to address also what is done with the attention of the great people, with the residential system, with the socio-sanitary, as it should have been done in this management to rectify the situation. And now we see, at a new time of some alarm or we don't know very well about the new wave of the covid, how the Department of Health again gives confused indications to the people and generates that "you are responsible for having a covid passport, without addressing an essential issue such as digital bretxa; without addressing the digital bretxa and without addressing the number of people socially expelled that will never have access to the covid passport, because it is in an irregular administrative situation. And that, therefore, what we do is to segregate more, through sanitary measures, the population, instead of giving universal coverage and making it easier for everyone to have access to the most effective rights and also access all spaces to develop their lives. So, as I said, we will vote against this decree and ask that it be passed by it, because as we can at least do the debate that we understand is lost with this decree. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.192.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.193.0	Thank you, President. With this decree on organisational measures in the socio-health field, we consider that what we are doing today is, in any case, to put a piece, right? , of many structural changes in the social and health system. And, indeed, it can be a first step forward in order to start ordering the social and health care system, and that is why we support it, but without oblivion that the future of social and health centres needs to become much more integrated into social services and personal autonomy systems – it should be much more integrated. And we have to assume that through the tool that the same government has announced of the agency that integrates social and health services, with which from your councils have committed themselves. We understand, then, that this decree is a foreplay, right? , straighten the social health service in a while, to be able to give better response to people, solving the problems and distortions that have been detected. But because of the diversity of the needs of the people who use these services, it is essential to be able to articulate with urgency a structure capable of facing the back and the neglects that have manifested themselves in this pandemic. Therefore, we ask both the Health Councillor and the Social Rights Councillor for two things. The first, which brought the social and health agency to Parliament with celerity, for such a debate, so as to talk about this architecture and about these structural changes that form part of how the model is thinking, more than it is a transactional question; we need to think about how the services are coordinated. There are two systems. Because we're late. And, secondly, the second petition is that it should address the disparity of existing models in the management of socio-health resources and open the debate to ownership..., about ownership – forgiveness – and outsourcing of resources essential to advance in the strength of a resource that must be public, and with much more control of quality care. They are lessons that have left us the pandemic and we cannot continue to waste time and opportunities to move forward in this sense. And so does the decree, which we thought would go much further, first of all, the impact on coordination with the social service system. A concrete question is whether Salut assumes the competence to reformulate the objectives of the social health services. Or what about the lack of places in territorial planning? What's the landing? This debate is not being held. Or how it can affect coordination with social services and circuits to ask for recourse to people who need it without having passed through a hospital or the health care system; here, where is the role of the social service? And here the social and family situation of a person is what determines the need for care resources and, if I don't have a family support, we need to be able to ensure that the Administration has all the information and all the resources to derive that person or family and attend to their situation. And, second of all, another important issue is that of financing. You have planned to transfer the payment form from the Health Department and to collect the social and health resources from the service portfolio. And it is clear that this change opens a different horizon to the socio-sanitary who, in no case, has to generate a Bretxa with the rest of the social services. We carry eleven years of infra-financing of resources and we need to move forward in the updating of services; but they all have to move forward. And this, if it's important, is especially important in how it affects quality care, how it has affected the deterioration of working conditions and the deterioration of the recognition of the professions of care and social. And we can't help but say: that we should approach the work and salary of the social health professionals, independently..., at the moment, even if we have to walk to a public 100_per_cent title, right now, regardless of the title that the service has, we can't ask for accountability, can we? and that it is respectful of labor rights regardless of whether the service today is managed for a company or for whom it is. And now that's not guaranteed. In conclusion, we are moving forward with small improvements with the decree, but we must have a much more substantive debate and wait for the bill of law from the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.194.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.195.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you don't do much in this chamber we were going to attend a very sad parliamentary debate. Left and Together for Catalonia, with the support of the PSC, blocked the will of the entire chamber, led by Ciutadans and the commons, but voted for the rest of the groups, CUP inclusive, to create an investigation commission to see what had happened exactly to the residents of the great people during the pandemic. A commission of inquiry in a Parliament like this – those of us here know this – is no big deal; it's a very small program to clear up responsibilities. But perhaps it would have been enough to appease the pain of the family members of great passers-by and representatives of entities that still demand transparency and justice, that that late they followed our parliamentary debate with their lame eyes and left some crying, other saying that politics is a "shit, as some say. I felt them and tears came to my eyes too. Well, that day you might want to stick that the creation of a working group, of those that if they call you to compare and you don't go anywhere, it was still better than an investigation commission. It must be thought that people who are not politicians or MPs don't get along with when politicians and MPs take their hair. You have to say that it is not known when things happen like that happened to the residents of the great people under the disastrous management of the councillor of Afers Socials, Lord El Homrani, and under the not very brighter of the councillor of Salutation of the time, Alba Vergés. The disconnection between the health and social services, which was already a fear before the pandemic and was especially dangerous to ensure the cure of the large people and the large dependents, made the summit of the disaster under the impact of the covid. All we needed was for this to be committed by a president like Quim Torra, with no moral or political authority, to take the lead in that crisis and that, in the background, it might have been good for him to have been two left-wing advisors particularly poorly endowed, Homrani and Vergés, who are mengessin brown. I know, some of you know, that medical permissions have insisted on asking President Torra to make an effort to, if not, see that he was in charge. Since then, we have seen a fascinating baton ball between Salut and the Social Servants, between the Social Servants and Salut, who have passed the pilot of the management of the residences – and of which are not the residences – "now you, now, always through the back door and without explaining with clarity and humility what it must pass and pass: that you were overwhelmed, that you did everything badly, and that then you have devoted many more political energies to averting mistakes than not correcting them. The decree that we are debating today seems to be trying to put an end to the uncertainty on this issue, consolidating a definitive restructuring so that the Health Department – significantly, the Health Department of the Councillor and Dr. Argimon – which finally assumes the specialized social health care that our large people and other particularly vulnerable collectivities require. It's clear who's going to have the last word, who's going to give his face. And I suppose we could say that this is hopeful news, even though it comes late, badly, and that I left us with the bitter taste that we are still here and now, still today and so, you are still imagining the or and the responsibility. They wouldn't make this decree if they weren't aware that everything failed. They wouldn't make this decree if they didn't know it was too much they had to store and for what they asked for forgiveness. Ah, but that's the last thing you'll do, because when you're wrong – when you're wrong – you're wrong – you never ask for forgiveness – and you're going ahead, you're going to kick and you're going back to your system. Let us wait to see what remains of this restructuring, if it is the definitive one. However, if by this you believe that you wash away your responsibility and your conscience and if by this you believe that you will no longer need not the commission of inquiry into the deaths in the residences we were demanding of you, but not even the promised working group – of which for now we continue to know nothing – well, for they abandon all hope of redemption; also that the people who left this Parliament a few weeks ago, crying and expressing in very harsh terms their loss of faith in politics, will never trust you again. Suddenly, we will abstain for a very simple reason: we do not trust you or, rather, not all of you – some more than others. In any case, we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.196.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.197.0	Thank you very much, President. See, this is a law that promotes a model change that's not bad; that's to say, we share the idea. But I think maybe you should have done it a little more calmly, with more consent, with more analysis, and maybe listen to the sector a little bit more, don't you think? A decree you might not be the instrument to end this change. Why is it that we are talking about very significant changes that will have a great impact on suppliers and that, therefore, it would be useful to make this dialog, right? This we have found with the Association, for example, of Benestar and Development, where we have held various meetings in the framework of the Barcelona City Council, because so far they have managed drug care centers, right? , and now it is found that they cannot participate in the competitions, since the criteria of the portfolio of services require that they continue to be companies linked to the health sector. And, like this, there are many more entities or businesses that can be affected. They're aware of the decree that doesn't affect general residences, right? The rule I believe to be obeying, or the change is obeying in which way the pandemic has affected people of older age, but – I don't know why, I don't know with what criteria – the residences in this decree are not incorporated, when, moreover, during the first wave of the covid, the Salvation Department has already taken over, I believe that with a decision also uncertain, right? There's also an added problem, which I think is the issue of delays in visits and diagnoses of chronic or severe diseases, right? We have had the problem of the covid – the system has collapsed –; today the system is very focused and focused on managing the covid-19, and that makes there are delays in visits, trials, diagnostics, right? And, in fact, their own doctors and experts are already warning that this situation of an underdiagnosis will now affect the future of the health system. Professionals will have to deal with illnesses and illnesses in situations that are already, unfortunately, much more advanced, and this will lead to an overload of the system. And I think it's an element that we should keep very present when we're talking about this rule. We fully share, in this sense, seeking better coordination between the centres offering social and health care and the health centres, which is what is being pursued by this decree. I need to improve the efficiency of resources, above all to gain agility and simplify the processes – this is something we have demanded – and I think that, with this step, you get into this way of looking for this simplification and agility, don't you? I do want to highlight how important we think it is to value public-private partnership in social and health care. The services that today provide social health centres include care for people with disabilities, mental health problems, terminal illnesses, palliative care, right? , and this, traditionally, in Catalonia are services that are provided in concerted centres of different ownership and not to hospitals or primary care centres. I, therefore, need to put this fan's pocket in value. As he concluded, telling them that on the paper we thought the decision was uncertain, it went the right way, but maybe the way to do it shouldn't have been... And, in this sense, I am already advancing that, like other groups, so we would ask that this is done with a law proposal, because I need to listen to the sector and I need to debate it more deeply, because it is true that the rule is a little much more about what you are actually pursuing as an object, which seems to me to be a very good object. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.198.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Fàbrega has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.199.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs, let me start this intervention, today is World AIDS Day, with our support for all AIDS-disabled people. In these forty years, much progress has been made in knowledge and treatment, but we still have a way to go, especially in the struggle against stigmatization. And we also want to congratulate, from Juntes per Catalunya and from this Faristol, the Council of Colleges of Nurses and Nurses of Catalonia and the Catalan Society of Family and Community Medicine, for the Cree of Sant Jordi 2021, which yesterday announced that the Government would grant them. A recognition more than deserved for the infirmary collection and for the collection of family and community doctors, which during the pandemic have shown with credence its value. And, thanks to them and to the rest of the health professionals, so we're facing covid-19 in the best way possible. We're voting for a decree that in a good part of this pandemic's learning. The vast majority of people affected have been our great people and our vulnerable people. They have been the main victims of a system of hearing the attention of our great people who were not prepared to face a situation like we have experienced. We have all seen: few health-care residents, with many users, the vast majority of advanced age, with very high treatment requirements for their high complexity and associated illnesses. We have all seen that, in these circumstances, the first months of the cove-19 were fleshed out with our great people. Social and health integration and the priority of public health in community interventions have now become, more than ever, a systemic responsibility and an ethical responsibility that we have before the weaknesses that we have confirmed for the pandemic. The decree that is passed today is an important step in this line of social and health integration, which we understand from Juntes per Catalunya that it is essential to give this correct attention to our great people, the attention that is deserved by all those who have struggled to achieve this world that we now enjoy. Catalonia – it was said before, in the interventions before – has some index of aging and over-enveloping of the highest in the world, with a model of attention to our great mixed people, between Health and Social Rights, as well explained the councillor Argimon. It has long been clear to Catalonia that these two departments need to be coordinated and to work folded, since the user is the same person, with varying degrees of personal autonomy and therefore of need for assistance in the different stages of his life. This coordination – the adviser explained – began the year 1986 with the Life of Years programme. 2011 created the program of prevention and attention to chronicity; 2014, the interdepartmental plan of care and social and health interaction – the PIAISS –, and 2019, the PAISS – the integrated social and health care plan. Counselors, we have everything written, we have everything studied. Catalonia has been a pioneer in this coordination between Social Rights and Health in the attention to chronicity and to our great people, but now we need to give this more step, this definite step that the pandemic has shown us is essential, with a real work together of all resources. This decree that we're voting on today is a big step. We achieve greater coordination between the different services and care levels, facilitating this shift between care levels and between resources, which is positive for the whole system, and also for primary care and even for emergencies. We get less paperwork, all under one department. And a very important theme: eliminates the co-optation of the long stay and the day hospital. But this is a first step that must lead us to the integrated social and health agency, a model that must allow us to place the person at the centre, keeping at the most their autonomy and their vital preferences at every moment and betting on home care – which is their known background – for floors with services, hospitals and day centres. And, at the time that I lost this autonomy, that is vague lose this autonomy, therefore, the assisted residences; obviously, always with the support of the PADES, when it is necessary. An agency with the participation of the Department of Social Rights, the Department of Health, and – we don't forget – the local world, assemblies and district councils. This is the Juntes bet for Catalonia, it's the bet for our program, our government agreement and the mandate plan. Now that the long stay will depend on Health..., therefore, at the moment when the hospitalization is required, it will be acute, medium stay, convalescence, long stay, it will be all under the management of the department, with the same criteria and circuits and without collating; it is an excellent news and a first step decided on this agency. Counselors, don't stand here. We put this agency on the market, which has to make the model for which Catalonia wears so many years theorizing and preparing to pull forward. Obviously, for our great people, our vote today will be in favour of this decree. And we will continue to work to make this agency come true. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.200.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.201.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, counselor, advisor Argimon... Before I began, I would like, from this faristol, to take advantage of this intervention and convey my condolences to the family members of the people that yesterday, unfortunately, they left us in a fire. A reality, sadly, invisible mass. For another band, I'd like to keep a record for all the victims of the pandemic, their loved ones, as well as the professionals in the sector. They gave it to me all the time, and they're still doing it today. For the sake of justice with all of them, they cannot be forgotten. The pandemic continues to fill in the core role of the socio-health community. In fact, it continues to feel necessary to give it a quick and effective response. The measure that we are debating today aims at greater integration of social and health services that improve efficiency, simplification and timeliness in management. It is, therefore, framed in a new model of integrated care that drives the departments of Health and Social Rights. We continue with the firm commitment to continue working and reverse the situation we experienced at the beginning of the pandemic, affecting the residents severely, regardless of their model and location. We all know that the pandemic has had a great impact on the great people, a collection where cases of great complexity prevail. Currently, as the company Assumpta Escarp commented, this collection represents the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the population. 2050 will represent thirty per cent; almost one of every three people will be and we will be part of this collection of great people. This reality, don't you think it forces us to recognize that we need to make a common front in the face of the future? This decree enables us to move forward with the easing of burdens and obligations of large people who are users of the system, and to strengthen the legal security of the cooperative enterprises and entities of the system. In fact, it is a matter of continuing the task begun in the last legislature – with backs of legislature – for the Councillor Vergés and the Councillor El Homrani, backs of referral to socio-health centers to help maintain the hospital activity, as well as giving support to the residences and to the primary and community care. Therefore, from the Republican Left we allow this transfer of skills in the field of health mediating the Catalan Health Service, because we want to improve attention if we have to respond quickly to new emergency situations, and to be quick, efficient and meet the needs of social health care. The pandemic isn't over. We must continue to give the best response to covid-19, and I think we are all aware of that. By responsibility, we would have to distance ourselves from the political and demagoguery that some groups have tried to make in this room with a subject as relevant and sensitive as this. Let us therefore focus on continuing to improve our system; let us analyse the things that we must continue to enhance; let us promote public-social cooperation and increase the size of the public sector. Once in a while, we did not give up denouncing the State's incompliments on the financing of the system. We take advantage of the work already done in the past legislature and move forward to equip ourselves with the best model for our country, a model of attention that we want focused on people, of territorial balance, of impulses of home care, and, ultimately, that integrates social and health care. Finally, let's move forward with the republic model, a model that wants to accompany the big, more inclusive, more autonomous people in a dignified way, and, above all, with a gender perspective. Obviously, we will vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.202.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. And, in accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it shall be understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let's vote on Decree Ill 25/2021. The vote begins. With the result of the vote– 107 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 6 abstentions–, the Decree Law 25/2021_has been validated. All right, now, with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, a date validated by the law decree, I ask the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to be dealt with as draft law. [[Pause.]] As there are petitions for parliamentary groups, let's vote if this validated decree is to be processed as a bill of law. The vote begins. With the result of the vote– 69 votes in favour and 63 votes against–, Decree-Law 25/2021 will be dealt with as draft law. As long as there's no petition, I'm sorry, that's it. [[Proposition of law of urban, environmental and social improvement of barrels and vile]] [[202-00019/13]] Let's move on to the set of the order of the day, the debate of totality on the proposal of law of urban, environmental and social improvement of the barrels and vile. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, to present this legislative initiative has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mr Marc Parés, for a maximum of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.203.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, I wanted to start this intervention with a record for Oriol Bohigas, a figure who has a sense of doubt leaves a great urban arrival in this city, but not only that, but that leaves a critical, provocative, stimulating, ambitious look, in everything that has to do with urban transformations and conceive of it, so, as the space for people, right? , because if an idea always conveys the Oriol Bohigas is that it means putting people, the citizenry, at the center of urban policies. [[Greetings.]] One of the obsessions of Oriol Bohigas and other architects and geographers, as in Xavier Valls, as in Jordi Borja, as in the Carme Ribas, as in the Zaida Muxí, as in the Maria Dolors Garcia Ramon, to name just a few and some, therefore, has been the transformation of the urban peripheries into a social clau from its fight against Francoism as an alternative to Barcelona de Porcioles, but also until our days and until the setbacks we have planted today in Mediterranean cities, which, as you know, no longer only have a clearly metropolitan logic, but now it is a regional logic and I would say so much about the country, right? « Converting the suburbs into cities and doing so with the participation of their veins and veins, in Xavier Valls, with the alternating urbanism of the popular plate of Santa Coloma de Gramenet. "To monumentize the periphery," says Oriol Bohigas, "giving the barrels of places and public spaces that generate identity, that generate civic spaces, relation spaces, community spaces. "Feminize public space and incorporate the gender perspective into urban policies, say today Zaida Muxí or Maria Dolors Garcia Ramon. "Infiltrate green into our cities, renaturalize them with biodiversity," says Carme Ribas, "which is one of the great current reptiles of dense cities like ours. Well, these are just some of the challenges we want to face with this urban, environmental and social law proposal of barrels and vile; with this law, in short, of green barrels. A proposal of law that drinks of the law of the year 2004, of the law of Pasqual Maragall and designed for another geographer referring to our home as is the Oriol Nel·lo. A law that has already drunk from international experiences, from learning in urban regeneration, and from which we believe we can continue to learn. A proposal of the law, this one that we present, that, like that of 2004, which is to deal with a phenomenon that, in fact, is intrinsic to the proper process of urbanization when operating the laws of the market in the assignment of land uses and building typologies on urban space, that is sociospatial segregation, isn't it? In other words, the tendency to separate social groups over the territory as a result of income inequalities and the situation of the housing market and the urban conditions of the different territories. A dynamic that ends up provoking is that those who need the most services and public support end up residing in the barrels in which there are major deficiencies and in the locations where there are fewer resources. In Catalonia there are 236 areas identified as vulnerable throughout the country, most of them to the province of Barcelona and concentrated on the axes of the Llobregat and the Besòs, but not only here: also in the urban surroundings of Tarragona or Girona, in certain barrels of Lleida or in numerous capitals of region and vile and middle cities of the country we find this phenomenon. We believe that now is the time to set up a new law of barrels, a law of green barrels that improves and adapts the law of 2004. What we are proposing, in fact, with this new law of green barrels is that the fight against urban inequality and the bet for the Vaginal ecological transition of the hand. And that doesn't just mean working in habitats to make them more energy efficient, which obviously means doing it and it's necessary, but it means intervening in the barrels in an integral way, in social claus and in environmental claus. So let the logic of this social and environmental transformation vagina of the hand in all territories. And, therefore, to generate opportunities for economic dynamism in all these territories. Because we have the challenge of responding to climate change from every raccus in the country and of bringing about the economic transition – that is to say, the country's most vulnerable barrels are not left out of the economic transition. But we also have today the challenge of social and economic recovery in a post-pandemic scene, and that is why through this law we propose ways, for example, to encourage the economy of proximity and local trade or generate occupation in these barrels. Also social policies and community health, which we have seen are so necessary after the pandemic, specifically in these territories. And also urban policies in public space; the pandemic has also taught us that we need, in these densified cities that we have, major public space, major relational space. We know that in vulnerable barrels the conditions of habitability and energy efficiency of buildings are often not the right ones, and that people living in these barrels in the winter go colder and have more difficulties to warm up and suffer poor energy, and in the summer they pass heat waves and also suffer more heat waves. We also know that those who are most aware of the effects of the pandemic crisis are the barrels in which the quality of private space has the most deficiencies, and therefore need a better public space. And there are also these barrels in which the social and economic impact of the current crisis is generating more stars. In fact, as with the crisis of the year 2008. Look, actually, in the 2008 crisis, I think we have a few learnings that we could have. In that economic and financial crisis, which, as you know, was the result of the escalate of the real estate and mortgage bubbles of the past, the one that happened in many of these barrels, in many of these territories, is that, at first, just before the crisis, the very fruit of the speculative bubble, the banks offered barbed wire credit, and that's what it was that a lot of people from these territories, who were many of them stigmatized, took advantage of this credit to go and buy a habitat outside these territories. The houses that were left empty in these barrels, precisely with the same real estate cylinder, because the banks offered credit to mortgages, so they were bought by even more vulnerable families, many of them from the wave of migration of that time. When the bubble burst, what happened is that these very most vulnerable families in these territories are the ones who suffered the most, they are the ones who saw the most as if they were disbanded and made them out of those cases as a consequence of the mortgage bubble escalator. And, therefore, they are territories that always end up patenting the effects of crises. And at that time, the one that followed this crisis was a few years of economic recession in which the poor is intensified in these territories in a very clear way. But do you know where socio-spatial segregation was most manifested? So it was in the benevolent barrel. That is to say, it was in the benevolent barrel where, after the 2008 crisis, there was a greater concentration of certain segments of the population, obviously, those higher class segments. Therefore, it was in the benevolent barrel where it was concentrated the richest population during the years after the 2008 crisis. That is to say, while the rich are richer and live more together in their barrels, in the territories and in the poor barrels, the situation was worse every time and the poor were poorer every time. And as this was happening, the Generalitat abandoned the policies of urban regeneration, and the calls of the previous law of barrels were abandoned in the year 2010. Therefore, it is in this context in which it was left out of these territories. And today we are experiencing the consequences of this decade of public disinvestment in these territories. And, as a result, urban segregation dynamics have intensified today. This was one of the consequences of the Austerity paradigm that reigned after the 2008 crisis, and of which, of course, the Government of the Generality in plain flag – of this Austerity paradigm. Fortunately, we have a new paradigm, a new response to the crisis situation, which goes through an expansionary response, and therefore also through a public reversal response. And this is where we want to frame this new law of green barrels that we propose, in this logic of reversal and public intervention in these territories. And we do this by taking advantage of learning, because we are after things, and we know that the success of urban policies is explained, among other things, by Community empowerment– those barrels with greater Community empowerment are the ones that have responded better to crises–, by public investment– in those barrels where there has been more public investment there has also been better – and by integrality– that is, by comprehensive political responses. We also know that the best of barrels has a risk, that it is gentrification, that it is the increase of prices of habitats as a consequence of this. And, therefore, what it is to govern these urban transformations that are produced with urban policies. And we also know that improving public space is key, but that it also has to focus on housing, and that it has to focus today on housing disabilities, and, therefore, that rehabilitation is essential. But it's important that we also define the model where we want to go. And what we're planting on this keg law is a model. And we bet on a compact, diverse city model with a barrage of uses, where urbanity and metropolity are built through autonomous barrels, and therefore in each barrage you can hold a care centre, a library, a school. In short, the fact that Anne Hidalgo, in Paris, poses as the city of fifteen minutes, and that, therefore, in fifteen minutes you can go slowly or by bicycle to any of these services. Ours is the model of the friendly city, of the peaceful city, of the decontaminated city. Therefore, a city in which we travel space in the car, which has much more space than the people who use it percently, and we give space to people. This is the model we want to move on to. And we do it with this law, which we understand is a law that brings four great news. The first, the green dimension, a law adapted to today's, climate-emergency challenges. The second, a law that enters the interior of the habitats, and, therefore, that it is not only left to the facades and the public space, but that rehabilitates the habitats as a key of energy efficiency. A law, in the third place, that strengthens the community dimension and that, therefore, incorporates the participation from the beginning of the projects that are planted, correcting thus what was the law of 2004, where the participation arrived at the end. And an innovative law, which resolutely incorporates the look of genera, but also innovative policies in matter, for example, of housing, encouraging cooperatives to cease using, mobilising empty housing or converting the habitating of tourist use into residential housing, and, of course, with preventive measures against denunciation. The law we propose is structured into four chapters. In the first chapter we define the general object of the law, which is nothing other than the creation of a municipalist foundation because the assemblies can promote integral policies of urban regeneration. A foundation that is guided by these principles of integrality, participation, governing the effects of urban transformations and municipalism. In the chapter according to what is done is to establish the characteristics of this foundation, which should be endowed, will have to be provided presuppositionally from the Generality of Catalonia. We believe that now is a good time to do so, taking advantage of the Next Generation funds, resources that can come from the State. What we're planting at the government is that I spent 150_million euros a year on barrel policies through this new law using the Next Generation funds. Let's hope the Generality's premise incorporates this element. In Chapter 3 what we do is to define the beneficiaries and the areas to which this law should be addressed, with a whole series of criteria and assumptions that can be found in the articulated text that we have proposed. And in the fourth chapter we define those types of interventions that we believe should include integral interventions in vulnerable barrels; types of interventions that we group into three large areas in the measure that we set up this law of urban, social and environmental intervention. Therefore, a first area more urban, more physical intervention: intervention in the rehabilitation of habitats, intervention in the promotion of suitable housing, in the improvement of energy efficiency; also in the creation of local energy communities, in the promotion of self-consumption, or in actions of urbanism included with the perspective of genera and generational, the elimination of architectural barriers or intervention in public space and equipment. A_second block..., I say, a first block in more physical matter, urban planning, rehabilitation; a_second block clearly environmental, oriented to the ecological transition, and, therefore, with measures oriented to sustainable mobility, with measures oriented to the better provision of environmental services – is to say, water, residual decontamination. Also – very important – increase the green infrastructure to our barrels; therefore, increase of the urban green, increase of the biodiversity. And measures directed to food sovereignty, and therefore also the promotion of food production in our barrels. And a third block of social and community action: everything that has to do with social policies and communities in the fields of production, work, format, community health in the relational sphere... Therefore, this idea of integrality, that to transform the barrels there is not enough to intervene in the stone, but to accompany it with policies..., or that social policies, community policies, are central. In short, in the face of the growth of the dynamics of urban segregation, and therefore of the expression of inequalities over the territory, in the face of a post-pandemic reality where the population of the barrels with major social exclusion is the one that has suffered most, and in the face of an obvious climate emergency, we believe that now it is a new wave of urban policies addressed to the barrels and vile with greater vulnerability. And that's why they're calling legal instruments, and this law is, and they're calling resources. We propose, therefore, a municipalist tool, of public intervention, integral and territorialized to achieve an objective, which is that your postal code, your place on which you live, does not follow a charge for your project of life, but on the contrary: that your territory, that your barri, be a generator of opportunities, a structure of territorial opportunities to be able to live better. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.204.0	In addition, for the defense of the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr.Andres Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.205.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... The Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puerdes presents us with a proposal for a law entitled 'urban improvement in neighbourhoods', but in reality it is an instrument of interventionism and social transformation in the purest communist style. [[Rialles.]] This proposition develops a whole series of measures to apply in its entirety the theories of so much fashion progress in recent years and that so much enthuses the left groups and even some groups that are not defined as such. Its aim, as the Member who has been explaining the explanatory statement has said, is to repeal and replace Law 2/2004 on the improvement of neighbourhoods, urban areas and cities requiring special attention. The comparison of the two titles already gives us the clues of where the change between the two laws will go: while in the current one, in 2004, we talk about improving the neighborhoods that require special attention, in the proposal that is discussed today we talk about their urban, environmental and social improvement. The environmental improvements, as we can imagine, are all those that fix the manual of the new green religion and that good progress tries to force us to comply with all citizens. And, with regard to social improvement, we already know what the communists mean when they talk about this. In any case, if anyone has doubts – someone has been graced before, when I said the word "communist" –..., if anyone has any doubts, he only has to look at the "social improvements, by calling it in some way, that have implanted dictatorships so admired by them in the neighborhoods of Cuba and Venezuela. The present proposal for a law follows a scheme similar to the above-mentioned Law 2/2004. It creates a fund with budget allocation to be determined each year so that the municipalities..., well, now the proposing group wants to extend it to all that extensive administrative maraña existing; then, before it was municipalities, now it is more municipalities – it is up to me to read, because I don't remember everyone – « consortia, regional councils, joints, deputations and other local authorities, that is, there must be more, still more. But the very explanatory statement explains that the above-mentioned Law 2/2004, to which this proposed law is intended to replace, ceased to apply in practice in 2011, as the proposer has indeed confirmed to us, and has been so because of a lack of budget. So the question is obvious: wouldn't it be more operational to ask the Government of the Generalitat to replenish that fund with an annual budget and invest it in the real improvement of those most disadvantaged neighborhoods? This is precisely what we have done since the VOX Parliamentary Group. We believe that we must help the most disadvantaged Spaniards, and one of the measures that benefits them most is to invest in their neighbourhoods, to improve water and electricity supply facilities, sewerage, sidewalks, access to computer networks and mobile telephones; to expand and maintain in good condition the urban parks and green areas of these neighborhoods; to improve the accessibility and mobility of these neighborhoods, where a large number of elderly people live and scarce resources... In short, all these public infrastructures that really improve the quality of life of the citizens who live there. It also seems to us that it should help the Spaniards who live in these neighborhoods to have quality housing. It is common to find us with very old homes that lack services that we consider basic today, such as a good thermal insulation that makes your life much more comfortable and lowers the costs for your air conditioning, or having a lift in your building, a fundamental element for the elderly or with mobility problems. It draws attention to the fact that this bill makes no mention of a serious problem in these neighbourhoods, such as the lack of parking. When these neighborhoods were built, either there were no cars or it was not possible to predict that all citizens would become owners of a vehicle, so the neighborhoods were designed without that element, parking, which today seems so basic. The fact that the Communists of En Comú Puerde do not consider it a problem and have not included it in their proposed law is very likely because they live in other more comfortable places where the parking space is already incorporated into the house. For the VOX Parliamentary Group, the availability of parking for vehicles should also be an important point to improve the quality of life of these neighbourhoods. On the other hand, for En Comú Puem and all the groups that defend theories progress in environmental matters, vehicles with petrol or diesel engines, whether tourism or industrial, are the enemy to destroy, although in many cases they are fundamental to the business of which hundreds of thousands of Spaniards live, that these cannot be bought an electric vehicle. Article 10 of this proposed law explains its three areas of action. The proposing Member explained this. One: urban planning, housing and energy efficiency – we have commented on some things with which we agree –; two: ecological transition, and three: social and community action with a gender perspective. As we see, the scope of this law far exceeds the rehabilitation of neighborhoods and buildings, and it is intended to become an instrument of social transformation. Thus, we see that in this proposition of law we continually use terms that have no relationship with which the object of this law should be. For example, he talks about the promotion of gender equality, the promotion of citizen participation, community action and the empowerment of citizens, climate change and the environmental crisis, climate shelters, environmental services, food sovereignty, the promotion of self-consumption, the self-management of spaces and, of course, the gender perspective. These are also matters which, in addition to not keeping any relation to what we believe should be the object of this law, should be regulated, if necessary, in other rules. For example, promoting the public purchase of eco-friendly proximity products – at best, the law on public sector contracts needs to be changed – promoting cooking classes and community kitchens, promoting the social and solidarity economy and co-operativeism. Or several mentions of housing policy, the new regulation of which is currently under parliamentary procedure. It is surprising, however, that this proposal for a law does not speak of some very serious problems that the citizens living in these neighbourhoods are suffering: illegal immigration, ocupation, crime, narcopies. Gentlemen of In Comú Pode and progress in general, not talking about these problems does not make them disappear. [[Greetings.]] Of course, for the evaluation of the projects that can be financed by this fund, which can go up to ninety_per_cent of its cost, two new bodies are created: a commission – how not? – for the management of the fund composed of twenty-seven members, of which only six belong to the Administration, and, in addition, an advisory council formed by professionals in environmental sciences, social services, economic dynamism and citizen associationism. It is easy to predict that many of the members of these two new chiringuitos will be part of the screen organizations that hope to use political parties to give work to their own, and that they are mainly dedicated to parasitizing public budgets. In short, this proposal of law does not improve at all the previous one, the 2/2004; it is dedicated to regulating aspects that have nothing to do with that purpose, but with the desire of In Comú Puerde for social transformation and control of the life of the citizens – the usual in communist regimes, and, moreover, creates much more bureaucracy, new chiringuitos where to continue expressing the public arches and placing the likes. In conclusion, we believe that the Government of the Generalitat should give priority to improving the most disadvantaged neighbourhoods, of course, but investing in improving basic services, in infrastructure and facilities and in the rehabilitation of buildings, because that is where the Spanish citizens who must receive the most from public services live. For all these reasons, we have tabled this amendment in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.206.0	To turn against it, Mr. Marc Parés has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.207.0	Thank you, President. Well, so, yes, this is a law with the will to social transformation, actually. That is to say, the ultimate will of this law is to transform society to improve the living conditions of people, especially the most vulnerable. And, to the extent that the most vulnerable collectivities are concentrated in certain territories, what we plant is an action of integral intervention in certain territories. And, therefore, it is not a matter of amending other laws, but of applying together different measures in certain territories to which a series of problems have been added. We know, because experience has shown us, that when we intervene only from the physical perspective we do not end up solving the social problems that these territories have. More often than not, they are dynamic in increasing the price and gentrification of these territories, expelling the popular classes that live in some of these barrels. To prevent this from happening what it is to accompany public intervention of urban intervention or social intervention. And, in addition, in an obvious climate-emergency context, even though some seem not yet to have agreed and continue to deny it, so what it is to accompany it, we understand, of environmental policies. And that's what we propose in this law, which is actually a law that they claim is public interventionism. Yes, he wants to raise public resources to improve the living conditions of the population he saw in vulnerable barrels. Also because it has been shown that in those barrels where there has been more public reversal, with public equipment, with public spaces..., they are the barrels that have returned better before crisis situations and that have managed, among other things, to maintain their population and not to expel it. And then another question. Clearly, certain discourses about vulnerable barrels actually have a brutal stigmatizing dimension, and that is what we believe we should avoid. That is to say, before the speeches in which these barrels are classified according to whether or not there are certain collections, whether they are barrels with major crime, etc., what they end up with is causing a stigmatization of these barrels. And stigma is what causes people not to want to live in these barrels. And this is the dynamic that we want to break. We want to create habitable barrels, where people are proud to live there and live there. And that's why we need to equip them with public services, that's why we need to improve the habitability of their homes. And today what it takes is not to leave these barrels on the sidelines of the ecological transition, which is so necessary. And they say to us: "Clearly, they don't..., they talk about how many problems and they don't talk about security, don't they? What do you propose? Get Brimo and ARRO to patrol these barrels to stigmatize them even more? Is that what they're proposing? Brimo and ARRO, in vulnerable barrels? So look, we don't say there's no need for security. What's left is a proximity police, a relational police, a police who work with the territory, who knows their social fabric, who knows their problems and who goes little by little, and who knows their citizens. A venerable cop, and not the one you're laying down. And complement it, as I said, with the combination of social, environmental and urban measures that we propose in this bill. Therefore, against the stigmatization that you pose to us, against the "secureness of these barrels, we pose, therefore, yes, it is a look of public intervention, a municipalist look, a look in which we build the responses in a participatory way and from the territories, and a look that effectively requires – and I look at the councillor, now – pressure and public resources because we can devote them to them, and that we now take advantage of the Next Generation Foundations for a new wave of urban policies that are truly integral, that are destined to these territories, that are incorporated... yes, that incorporate the look of a genere – I believe that it is important and, at the end, that you have seen in another world that you are truly integrated, with your discourse– and also the environmental look. I, listen'm, all these looks don't come from Cuba, Venice or I don't know where else. Listen, they come from Europe, and they come from the main recognizable academics, who know who the realities are and who the answers are. And, therefore, we don't want to be ridiculed. It would be good to treat the rest of the Members with more respect, and not with so much less. And if they want to discuss some questions, they will be welcome to discuss them whenever they do so from respect, rationality and the provision of logical questions, and not from the constant lack of understanding that we find in their words. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.208.0	Then the various parliamentary groups, to express their position, have two minutes for each group. It begins, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.209.0	It will advise, we opinem only in the policies of habitating carry two years lost. The tornado, the last decade, of Convergence to the Government assumed a halt to public intervention in the housing camp. It broke the climate of collaboration and concertation with the local administration that the governments of Presidents Maragall and Montilla had sufficient through the national pact for housing, the law for the right to housing, the law of barrels and the co-financing of the network of local offices. The Generalitat, the Government of the Generalitat, has withdrawn from public housing policies leaving the assemblies alone, and we are still in this situation, Members and Members. It's wintered the barrel law. Rehabilitation grants have practically been left at zero. It has stopped building social protection habitat. The Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance believe that it is necessary to recover the public initiative of the Generality in the field of housing and the dignity of the barrels, promote a comprehensive public policy that gives response to the needs of the citizenry and remains consistent with the reality of our housing park, but also with the socio-climatic reality, which we will also face from public administrations and public policies. The barrel law on the way to the Maragall and Montilla governments and Councillor Joaquim Nadal and Secretary Oriol Nello also wanted to recover the barrel dignity policies that began the Barcelona Assembly with architect Josep Antoni Acebillo and Mayor Joan Clos, who were pioneers of the barrel law that was later deployed. So this bar law of the governments of President Maragall and President Montilla was to deploy and give support to actions to 147 bars in Catalonia, with 200_million annual reversals, to achieve quality public spaces, good equipment and begin to promote the rehabilitation of habitats. I say again: the arrival of the Government of Convergence, of President Mas, and after Junts for Yes represented the maturity of this law, which I believe everyone has acknowledged to have been a good law. But the worst, from our point of view, was that this brake meant the end of the investment commitments that there were to regenerate the urban textures of many barrels of our cities. And today reality tells us that we are still holding barrels, many, penalized for buildings with low energy efficiency, with difficulty of accessibility and often stigmatized for their recent evolution. And, of this debate being proposed to us by the parliamentary group of the commons with this bill, I believe that we cannot forget either the objectives of the European Union for reducing energy consumption and reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the residential sector, and which particularly affects many of these barrels, these urban environments that we are talking about. In fact, the climate change law approved by the Parliament of Catalonia fixed as a standard of renewal in the residential sector reach the rehabilitation of about fifty_ thousand habitats every year. In fact, today it should be..., and in the future we cannot give up..., rehabilitation policies must be and are already, should be, an important place of occupation, also in the energy self-consumption sector. Unlike the first law of barrels, which invested public money basically in public works, in public spaces, in equipment, in our opinion that we should narrow down the new criteria so as not to lose the focus of the necessary interventions. We'll support this proposal from you, but I'm already announcing that we'll submit papers, huh? , to try to narrow down what we should be the targets that should pursue the nine performances in the barrels of our cities. Who are they, according to our criteria? So we're of the opinion that what it's all about is subsidizing and financing urban rehabilitation operations for the communities, or housing, one by one, mixing rehabilitating areas in barrels where you need them. Welcome to this law proposal, but also tell them that the government, if it wants, already had tools to act, right? In fact, there is one, fixed to the law of habitat approved in 2007, which establishes conservation and rehabilitation mechanisms, which allows delimiting priority rehabilitation areas and also allows declaring public works of interest. We must, from our point of view, establish as a great national agreement the need for rehabilitation and regeneration of the urban fabric as a strategic element in order not to occupy more territorial areas. And, above all, to allocate public resources from a structural conception, it was not that we combined these policies exclusively with the Next Generation funds, which, as its own definition says, are conjunctural. They are important, because they can be a lever, in this sense, of these policies, but they are conjunctural, and I believe that here what we have to establish and what we have to agree on are structural policies. It cannot happen again that, when these extraordinary resources of the European Union come to an end, all urban and residential operations return to oblivion. Rehabilitation and accessibility to regenerate urban textures; these are the priorities that we believe should be addressed. Define, as we say, funding mechanisms and grants to meet these objectives. To the papers we're presenting we're also narrowing down this foundation that's offered to help us locals, because I don't think it can be..., or it can't be provoked, because the objectives won't relax, that these resources can be spent, huh? , do the expense, at what the local administrations want. They have to have clear and defined objectives, with criteria... with which the European Union sets, right? And beyond this proposal, which could end up being an update of the barrel law, we have unsolved ancient reptes and we need to address some of the integrated focus of urban policies. It is what defines the Leipzig Charter of the year 2007 and the recently approved or agreed now, 2020, isn't it? , that it is true that it puts a special emphasis on the most disadvantaged barrels as to priority areas of action. I believe that..., and my parliamentary group believes that the rapid and changing evolution of urban realities, influenced by global challenges and challenges, which we also face from both the territorial and local levels – is that of climate change, transnational migration, the increase in inequalities, the new economy or digitalisation, among others – they cannot pass another time on to the most depressed barrels of our cities and cities. It is important that urban regeneration is tackled as one of the priorities of the Government of Catalonia which commits economic resources to it, and, therefore, commits to it every presuppositional resource – also the props – that sufficient resources are available, and that sufficient resources are available, in addition, in a sustained way, in collaboration and cooperation with the country's assemblies. Territorial planning, urban agenda, barrels, should be part of the same strategic vision. Welcome to this law proposal, but I believe that some of the things that have come up today from this forum should be addressed or addressed through a new law of the country's territories, of Catalonia, that I address in your most holistic view all these problems that we are going to talk about today and that in the handling of this law will surely arise. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.210.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Member of the House of Representatives Maria Dolors Sabater has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.211.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, parliamentary workers and people who followed us... I will also begin by thinking that today is the international day to remember AIDS and its consequences. And I want to remind you that the impact of this disease at its time, at the age of eighty, above all, could continue on the map per barrel. And I want to remember the victims of yesterday's fire, a deadly fire that reminds us that the poor woman kills. And if we follow the deaths we have in the country by fire..., they started Reus with an aviator who had to serve fire for the poor energy; Badalona will now make a year of the fire of the Gorg ship, which is precisely about to be denuded the people who survived and who live again, obviously, in an occupied place, because there is no housing alternative for them. Come on, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's And it's still by fatal accidents – that they're not accidents, but they're murdered by the system – or it's by the way that you tell us the map of the mortality of the Medea 3 team, directed by Miguel Ángel Martínez Beneito, of the University of València – and that's clear, this is a reference from all over the State –..., clearly telling us that the poor kills. It is possible to resuscitate, it is possible to look at barrels per barrel, it is possible to see the indexes..., as the most disadvantaged barrels have an indexes of mortality from the middle, and they are in many cases – even though it has also been seen with the cove – two and fifteen points over the rest, two years and all of the difference in life expectancy if it is seen in an unfavorable bar or not. Therefore, I think there is no doubt, I think that we all know this, that in the barrels we have a political priority, a priority of public policies that cannot wait another day. Therefore, we are already advancing that, of course, we will not obstruct the processing of this law. And, obviously, we're working, we're working, we're doing papers... And today in this intervention I will not advance, therefore, concrete facts with which we will put ourselves to work, but I would like to make a general reflection, because we are not mistaken in who will be the power of this law, or we do not think that it is a magic rod, because it turns out that, from plans of transformation of barrels, we already had some years back. And you here... there have been many revivals, haven't you? To remember the past, the important things that were done. Of course, very interesting things have been done. I will also be a little bit of a revival, and I will go to the study that they do on the barrels, on the need for a plate of barrels, before what was put on the march in 2004, with a whole set of anthropologists, geographers, architects, sociologists, that with the Bofill Foundation, the EARHA team – and, to, er, do, to – before 2002, they already put in evidence, they radiographed five of the problems that we had in the barrels. And I'll read them one of the problems, because they may have been in the past 20 years, which we have exactly the same. And the question – before I read it, I ask them the question – is: what do we have to do this time so that it doesn't turn out that from now on twenty years ago, although we approve of a magnificent law, that we pose all the elements, we say again that things like, for example, the private passages that are in the barrio of the Health of Badalona, to quote one of the barrels, follow exactly the same as they were twenty years ago and they can follow until forty? The law, when we approve it, when it is developed, will be a law that will not fail to be a piece in a system that, if it does not change the core, whether the right to housing and the right to life, the right to live with dignity, with good health, with good environmental conditions, with healthy surroundings..., if this right is not a priority, as far as we know, that comes out of the Constitution, that it is a..., written already, but it is not complete. In this country, while housing, in the face of the right to live, continues to be a motivator for doing business, while the housing policies of this country continue to prioritize private execution to give air and life to private business before it inhabits one hundred_per_cent public, while we do not seriously assume that people's lives are our political priority, I am very afraid that things like this, that they give to the program... What are the private passes? They are problems with the habitating of secular principles, the private promotion of the so-called "passives..., " habitating formations of very small dimensions located inside plots or they giving face to a small square. It is about private activities located in a dispersed way for the conjunction of the urban plot of Barcelona, the Hospitallet de Llobregat and also in the urban nuclei of Badalona and Santa Coloma de Gramenet, that experience, beyond the raonable, the right edificatori and of which still a significant part endure. I invite you to visit these barrels and to visit these passages. You're a spherist. And only to think that there can be a fire... not five, not two, not eight... drawings of mortal victims, we would have. And that's what we've got today, man. There are hundreds of people living in these habitats, absolutely infra-habitats. So what I'm asking you is that the law will be very good, we'll do very well, but if we don't change the basis of this..., if we don't face the capitalist system that leads us to this excess of mortality, it doesn't respect the life of most of our citizens, and if we don't change even a whole other issue, which is how we fund the municipalities... Why can we also ask ourselves: why do we need these foreign plans? Avans is a goddess: that I didn't look like one thing..., it has to be a structural thing. Structurally, it would be if the financing of the municipalities allowed sufficient autonomy as a municipality with Badalona, which has these passages in the barri de la Salut, or as any of the municipalities of our country, could pose..., it is possible to put aside this work, prioritise it, but no. And there's no counselor here, but I do advocate... I mean, our political space would ask that this law, at the time of creating the ponència, is done by the CAI, which is done by the Presidency, because this has a lot to see with the municipalities, it's a matter of municipal management, it's cross-cutting. This law includes housing, including social rights, including land management, including environmental rights. It's very transversal. It is a law that should also count on the participation of mayors and mayors, governors and governors, all municipal authorities... Because I want to remind them that many of these plans were not able to execute – the previous ones – because after there are problems of terms, of execution. We listen to what the mayors and mayors say, the directors and directors who have not been able to execute the plans, because this is much better than that of 2004, that this law overcomes the obstacles encountered by most municipalities in order to be able to develop them. So, obviously, we will vote against the threat to totality. We'll get to work on rapeseed to improve this law, but we also claim that this law is understood as a priority, transversal law, and not as a good, as a bullet to cover the wound, but as a structural change. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.212.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.213.0	President, Members, Councillor... In fact, I could start, after listening to all the groups that have intervened so far, with that of: at least we believe – or at least almost all of us believe in that – the need for the neighbourhood law to be activated, and that, therefore, urban policy should begin to work or recover, and, in this case, the territorial planning of Catalonia, because it is true that the 2004 law has ceased to be implemented due to lack of resources since 2010, 2011, and that is a reality. Since it is a reality that there is no housing policy since then either, and that all this – non-action, non-utilization of public resources and non-implementation of public policies in these areas – has generated a real degradation of much of our territory. Here I wanted... Since many issues have been discussed – some I will not repeat – I wanted to make two demands. A first, as a geographer, to all those geographers who have planned our territory for so many years in Catalonia, which I believe have advanced, in many cases, to social realities that could hardly be predicted at many times, with which... I think it is important to make that claim. And then also the claim of the dozens, hundreds of municipal public offices that dedicate themselves day by day to working precisely in these areas. And I am going to make a claim from our two hundred and thirty councillors in Catalonia, who practically..., have groups and who are working in almost all the municipalities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants, which is where we find these problems, and which are their experiences that are bringing us much of what I am going to comment here today, of those councillors who work for almost seventy percent of the population of Catalonia – two of every three Catalans. And it's important to have municipal representation, it's important to know what. And in this I believe that..., I also wanted to comment on those who have tabled the amendment to the whole, because municipal policy and the management of municipal policy and municipal policies must be done from the real knowledge of what is happening in each of the territories. And we need to know many times how the daily realities of citizens in areas such as... how the metropolitan area of Barcelona is and manifests itself. I believe that..., the proposal we make we share as the basis for a future debate. We have already advanced that we are not going to oppose the processing of this law, which does not mean that we agree with the model they pose, logically. It is very far from what we believe needs to be put forward for Catalonia, but it is true that we need at least a debate and update much of the policies that have been lost for many years. We propose or would propose our proposal on the basis of three objectives. One – we have not spoken here – is convergence with Europe in terms of per capita income and in terms of employment. That is to say, these laws must also make it easier for us to get closer to averages of per capita income and employment, something that has not been mentioned, I think, and I believe that the bill does not appear too much. It's important. One. Two, a major objective: social cohesion and territorial cohesion. More than two hundred and thirty vulnerable areas were mentioned in Catalonia; after the pandemic they could surely be defined in more. We believe that a prior diagnosis should be made before implementing a law like this. That's basic. As much as we propose measures and debate them here, we believe that this diagnosis is essential. Social and territorial cohesion, or, rather, territorial cohesion, which implies social cohesion... And this is social cohesion, because some consider social cohesion to be sometimes variable as the language you speak– two, three, one... No; social cohesion is territorial policies, social policies, in this case, like this. It's obvious. But, following with that, as a third great objective – and from there many others can come out – the modernization, in many cases, or at least the implementation of 21st century realities in those vulnerable areas that we have already defined and that we have, in some way, already exposed in future analyses that are necessary. Digitization, and, with it, with digitization, something that has not been talked about, the implementation of infrastructures that facilitate it. That is to say, in Catalonia we have industrial areas, industrial polygons – of which there is no excess talk in the law – that they do not have access to the fiber optic network; that is, the need to... Proper territorial planning and that they have access to adequate resources for the economic dynamism of these areas is essential. And we cannot have or take initiatives many times that are municipal, and many times they are not even taken from the supramunicipal sphere..., we cannot order a territory if we do not have that we are not clear what will be the access to those resources. Therefore, a third major factor, which is dynamism, in this case. With all this typology, we believe that the municipalities in which we have encountered these situations are very concrete neighborhoods, are typologies of very concrete neighborhoods. We all know them many times, but in many cases they are, therefore, areas with serious situations of stagnation and socio-economic decline, where sometimes phenomena such as population loss, ageing, lack of equipment and public services, and few opportunities for economic activity..., and, on the other hand, urban areas or neighborhoods with comparative disadvantages compared to the rest of their locality. That is, we have or unique areas that have lost a certain dynamic or areas, in the same city, in the same municipality, that are diverging in their opportunities. We believe that this law, in addition to these objectives, must have an impact on aspects that are basic to us. Solving the problems of territorial integration – one of them I think I have already commented on – but with very concrete actions. I mean, we have to know – and this has also been said from the Socialist Group, and I think it is true –..., we have to narrow down the scope of the law. I believe that this law goes beyond – and this is true – what we believe should be a law of neighborhoods, a law that dynamically and act. Because, yes, one intervenes, this is true; public policies intervene, always, this is a principle that even for liberal policies... It is basic: to regulate one has to intervene. And when you intervene in the territory, then you have to somehow know how to do it. The important thing is to know what we are involved in or what we are implementing these public policies or resources. We believe, as I said before, that we have to introduce these, in some way, digitisation, rehabilitation, support for the business fabric – something that has commented here – to promote energy efficiency, especially energy policies, from municipalism; working for positive discrimination in favour of groups threatened with social and labour exclusion – that is essential. Then, creating an inclusive city; often these inclusion policies are not looked at as such..., but we should see them as a cross-cutting aspect that must be in our vision, it must be an essential perspective for any policy being carried out. On the proposal of the commons, I believe it is amendable. It is true, we may not agree on many aspects. And we do not know what our decision will be in the end; what we are clear is that there are a whole series of realities that we cannot avoid. When we act on the territory, the effect of gentrification, which was commented by Congressman Parés, is inevitable..., we can't..., we have to manage it with prior planning and with territorial planning and with supramunicipal land management policies. We can't act a posteriori. We cannot want the effects that have already occurred to be avoided by our actions. This... I think they sometimes sin, from their group, for that kind of performance, of trying to change a reality that is often inevitable and that could have been predicted with proper planning. Like I said, we don't agree with that. Neither with the lack of economic vision of the law; nor, because they leave realities, as you have spoken, of the city of fifteen_minutes... But I remind you that in areas..., as happens in the Valley, so many of our citizens live in the city and have to move to industrial polygons to work, and they cannot walk, that is, they have to have adequate and correct mobility. And, therefore, they sometimes propose things that are not practical and that are not realistically implementable. That is why we will work to amend this law and abstain from the amendment as a whole, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.214.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.215.0	Thank you, President. You see, we agree that we need to work to avoid inequalities. No doubt, it's a task that we all have to put together, but I do find that there are a few important points missing in the text that they present to us. I mean, they don't make a single mention of public-private collaboration, and I put them two examples in two articles I think are important. One, Article 10, areas of action. We are talking about urbanism, housing and energy efficiency, economic transition and inclusive social and community action with a gender-based approach, but they are not talking about generating employment. If generating occupation doesn't have to be a key sphere of action for the better of barrels and vile, then they'll explain to me how they think they do it. When we scrape a little text and there is a little development, we are only talking about co-operativeism and social and solidary economy. All right, all right, Here's to stay. Article 16, commission for the management of the funds. Twenty-i-seven members – twenty-i-seven – will be difficult to manage, that is. Gender equity; basic, very important, gender equity. Neither one representative of these twenty-i-seven members of the business web – nor one. How is that possible? Is that to say, how do they think they fight against inequalities without counting on those that generate occupation? They won't be able to do it. It's impossible. It's not possible to do that. Funding – the other chapter. They're talking about creating a fund. All right. All right, but no minimum supply forecast. We don't know how he's going to get this stuff: assumptions from the generality... well, we'll see how. They're starting to insinuate... they're talking about special contributions. We can already see where the topic went; perhaps more tax burden. And, in fact, they're even talking about involving the financial entities, right? They say: "Financial entities that facilitate low interest and for a long period of time. I want to remind you that at the Barcelona City Council, where you are in government, I have put forward a proposal to help young people access the purchase of a housing, young people who can face a mortgage, but who do not have enough money to pay the mortgage entrance. And the answer was 'no, because you want to solve the problem of housing for young people, but whenever you are with their model: 'Buy no, I have to tell you which model you have to have, which is that of the logger, logger, logger, logger or logger, and we only go to the logger. I think you're wrong. Here you have to give everyone options in order to get access to a ‘living on the conditions they think are the best for them, and help them in the case of the logger or in the case of the purchase. They don't make a single mention, in the text, of evaluating the management that local administrations do, and I think it's basic. We don't just need funding, but we need a hold-up of the policies that are due in the end. The Barcelona Assembly..., measures thirty_per_cent, fracàs; measures yield content, fracàs– fracàs– ; housing policy, fracàs. So maybe we'll start assessing the management we're doing before we start talking about financing. They talk, throughout the text, about empowering the veins. It's all right, it's all right, we're empowering our lives, but I have to tell you, at the end of the day, all the participatory processes that you've started with your lives in the barrels and in the city are an authentic weakness. In fact, the proper participatory process is cancelled by the court for lack of participatory process in its elaboration, which is already a joke. But it is all the measures that you take to see it: "This is a participatory process, you decide to end up with a deep frustration of the seeing, because, of the participatory process, king, decision of the seeing, king. You're very remote and you end up with minimal participation and widespread discontent. So, I see a problem here. Finally, they talk about reducing inequalities in education and fighting segregation. All right. But then how can they make this compatible with defending the elimination of concerts at the concert? No, listen, it's that the concerts at the concerta exist to reduce inequalities in education and fight against segregation. Therefore, it seems that they defend one thing but in doing another of very different. I believe that there is a great deal of ideology in the document. Bring your segell, clearly. It's okay for you to wear your secret, but I think we need a little more pragmatism and reality. And to tell them, finally, that the struggle against inequalities I think is something that has to involve us all, clearly, but I think that this is only achieved with great consensus, isn't it? And it doesn't seem like you're likely to get to big consensus with anyone who doesn't have the same thinking you do and see things the same as you do. So, well, we'll try to make that happen in this text, we'll try to make a consensus. We're going to bring in papers in the text, we're going to try to negotiate them, we're going to trade them, because we think there are good things, there are things that we can support, but we think there's a very important part that needs to be improved to make a good text that I actually got the object that you're pursuing, that, as I say, we share it totally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.216.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of the deputy Cristina Casol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.217.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. If I may say so, we have just learned that the Supreme Spaniard will make his judicial authority official by rejecting a directive of European justice. Despite the Euro MP condition of President Puigdemont, he persists in his willingness to stop him if he returns to Catalonia. Neither democratic principles nor justice, Spain. Are they really thinking and continuing to claim that Spain is a full democracy? [[Some applause.]] Democracy and justice continue to support President Puigdemont. Keep putting up with them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.218.0	Congresswoman, if I may return to the question, please... you asked for a plea and I've already granted it. Thank you. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.219.0	Well, all right. And where we are concerned, this new urban law proposal, today I want to talk about poverty and its territorial dimension, and about how to make effective social inclusion policies so that, in the end, you can reflect on how we can invest our efforts so that this proposal can give a step further, and above all, improve Catalonia from a global perspective, from all over the territory. First of all, I want to talk about the "poor" word, a very raw or very harsh word of which yesterday we all had a new show in a fire that struck us and ended the lives of four people who had their future in Catalonia. "Poor is a word we don't really use, and we have replaced it with a more technical, more political expression that we call social exclusion. But, ultimately, she is poor, poor of people before her personal development or community development is impossible to access. Because the poor means radically staying away from opportunities, educational resources, work places, better surroundings or suitable housing. The poor – or social exclusion – has a very large territorial dimension. It is an example..., it is very exemplified, for everyone, when we talk about depopulation; depopulation, which has been a trend in these two last few years in the rural world in Catalonia, and which we have to explain as opposed to the overpopulation of large cities, while today with the pandemic it has meant a halter of this depopulation in some areas of Catalonia. And I will give you an example: there are comarques, like the Barcelones, that have suffered a decrease of the standard of more than thirty_ thousand inhabitants compared to 2020, almost one u percent of the population, and it is opposed to the growth of comarques like the Pallars Sobirá or the Alta Ribagorça, that have sunk a growth in the standard of almost a three_per_cent. This image of changes in the distribution of the population of our territory is still provisional, and even if it establishes a certain rebalancing, survived by the pandemic, it could be reversible. And for this reason, we can very well ascertain the policy measures and actions that are instrumental in pursuing this trend of territorial balance. But first we need to hear with a historical view why the population increase has transformed urban geography, especially in cities. At the length of history, the population is concentrated in the great cities looking for prospects for the future. And cities with good urban planning, with good services, cities with good infrastructure, with a good job market, with efficient urban transport, also with good financing, have been characterized to be inclusive and very bright. But, unfortunately, this is not so, and many cities are characterized to have a high level of sociospatial segregation. A clear example is the barrels where there are fewer resources, where the low quality of the services of health, education, public transport limits their access to work places, to have a future. The informality of these barrels is endemic, and they are a cause of low productivity. And that's what we see in age groups or gene groups, like women or large people or children, who are more likely to stay out of this system. And, therefore, your future and the good development of our country is at stake. And to reinforce this concept, I turn to the territorial dimension, because, for what I have explained to you, geography and urbanism mark people's lives. For this reason, if we are talking now about the villages and the towns of Catalonia, the towns of the rural world, we are also missing many opportunities. We find many shortcomings in their future: deficiencies in public services, such as salvation, which many times there is not up and for a population that is often enveloped means a difficult problem and a strong concern. Maintenance of reelings, paths; conservation and rehabilitation of habitat in the ancient nucleus. They are the same deficits that many people, often in the rural world, find in a _second plan. For this reason, I'm asking for country shares, in conjunction. And I think today we must venture very hard to give hope and the future to everyone. And we have to go more there, more there to take advantage of resources. A concrete case that we can use now and abroad are green economies, which have a lot of potential to create jobs. Or also teletreball; teletreball opens up a new world of work opportunities, because teletreball is a very important tool and can be a good tool to rebalance the territory and thus create opportunities for everyone. As a result, we need to make urban laws, but we also need to balance and improve the whole country. At the same time, we must not lose sight of it, and we must bear in mind that this scourge that exists in the rural and urban world and that we call it "poor or social exclusion" to be felt by all people because of lack of work, urban handicaps or weak social or family ties. And I call them our support. To this end, there are three aspects that must be present in the methodology of this law, and in some way improve and calibrate your foot to facilitate preceptive conclusions. For example, if the exclusion has a structural character, we must give a strategic political response, focusing on factors that generate precariousness and marginalization. If exclusion is complex, policies must be treated from an integral view, with cross-sectional models and from the greatest possible territorial proximity. And if the exclusion involves a very strong dynamism, with multiple and surmountable entrances, we must encourage processes of prevention, insertion, promotion, reinforcement, restoration of work, social and family links. As a result, the fight against exclusion has to be approached with ways of empowering and empowering people. Public policies will achieve better results. And we must tend to incorporate into it processes of participation and strengthening of human and social capital. The big challenge is, therefore, to decide to invest: do we have to do it to activate economic motors or do we have to invest in disadvantaged areas? I'll leave it to you. We are concerned, since there is a great risk of always betting for themselves, and this puts the recovery of the rural world at risk. It is an opportunity, like the country, for the just struggle of people and for their personal project, and also for rebalancing and territorial equity. If I may, at this last moment I also want to make, finally, a record for a giant of Catalan culture, a small tribute for an architect, the Oriol Bohigas. A man of the left, republican and progressive, who later years of his life went out to defend democracy and manifested himself as a good democrat against the Spanish violence of October 1. I rested in pau. And many thanks for making this, our country, a better country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.220.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Ferran Estruch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.221.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good late. That of talking the last one also always has its drawbacks, because many things have been said, and many things, therefore, that we share among the different political groups. Obviously shared by our group, the Republican Left Group, will vote against the threat to the totality presented for the extreme right, for VOX. And, of course, the knowledge they have of the country and the reality has been demonstrated today. They say they go for a lot of barrels; I don't know for five barrels they go. I believe that they are living in a parallel reality, and in any case they do not know the reality of our country or the needy. And it was clearly seen with the speech made by Congressman Bello, who spoke of communist regimes in Venice and did not talk much about the barrels and cities and their problems. And therefore, I understand that they are living in another reality, that it is not ours and that it is not that of this country, it is obvious. I believe that there is a consensus, and it was demonstrated in the motion that we approved in this House last October, so as to encourage new urban policies, new comprehensive urban policies focused on urban regeneration and the better living conditions of our people to all barrels, all cities, our towns and cities, with an integral vision, an integral response, like..., we believe, indeed, that the philosophy of the proposal of law presented by the commons' companions goes in this direction, that we share, to give an integral response, comprehensive policies of urban regeneration. Yes, we think it's important, which didn't make the 2004 law, that we need to focus on a reality that is urgent for us, and therefore we certainly can't wait to have and complete the processing of this law, which is the rehabilitation of habitats, entering habitats, and therefore making policies active in habitating. And, in this sense, I think... we understand that the government is working on it, and we hope that 2022, as the Councillor has already announced, will bring in clear calls from the Next Generation Foundation for habitat rehabilitation, which is one of the most urgent issues for us. As I said, we need clear urban policies that fight inequality, and, obviously, with a gender perspective, with social equity, and, today more than ever, to deal with energy emergencies, and, obviously, adapted to the reality that has touched us living, this post-pandemic reality. We have, as I said, the law of 2004, and we must therefore take a step forward. Because it has been very, very different years since the adoption of that law, a law that was positive, with an important impact, but that also has its shadows, as was also mentioned – Congresswoman Sabater said – and that did not end either, therefore, to give the results we hoped for. In this sense, we believe, from the Republican Left Group, that it is important to re-evaluate all the actions carried out; from those calls, to re-evaluate whether the impact..., apart from the absolutation of the execution of the works, if it has had a real impact to transform and improve the quality of life of our people, of our barrels. That is why we believe that, in parallel with processing, it would be very important to re-evaluate all the actions that have been done: 1.300_million euros that have been spent on our barrels of our towns and cities. And I want to remember and here highlight the phone book – which was also said – of the assemblies. The assemblies we have to be engines of change and transformation, because we are in politics to transform our society and to improve it, and the assemblies are a key piece. We lack finance, and obviously female efforts. With the 2004 law, which invested 1,300_millions, half, 600_millions, they brought together together, and the rest brought together the Government of Catalonia. So, it was an intervention... some shared actions. We need to take this into account at the time of making these new calls from this law, which today we will give the hints to its processing, therefore, falling the emena to the totality of VOX. Therefore, from our point of view, we understand that we need to update this law of 2004, put it up to date, adapt it to the new realities and challenges. Not all realities are new, not all needs and problems are new. As has been said here, the structural poor, the lack of housing and many others continue; there were 2004 and they have followed, and they have been strongly accentuated in the last few years. And new problems have arisen as a result of the economic and social crisis of 2008-2010, which will take place in front of it and which with this law will take place in front of it: the growth of new urban areas that we have experienced in these different years; the degradation of very important historical centres, which many mayors have suffered from, from all over the Principality of Catalonia, where we see, therefore, degraded historical centres, empty, with bad conditions and can act decisively; phenomena such as gentrification, which has also been discussed – we expel people from our old barrels as well as from the rise of prices and speculation–; urban segregation, or, as I have said, other aspects such as the development of the people or the post-speculation reality, which has obviously left behind. The law contemplates some of the objects we share. It is also obvious that, beyond philosophy, that we like and believe that it has been used, that we will strive, that we will work rapeseed among all to improve it, but we understand that this new law goes in a good direction to that which unites us to a good part of this chamber, that it is to improve the conditions of people's lives, viscous, and reduce social inequalities and, obviously, also territorial, to reduce the effects of the climate crisis, and, therefore, to fight against the climate emergency. And that's what we need, so put resources to it. Making these barrels green and sustainable, facing the urban handicaps that our country suffers a lot, promoting the economy – this must also fight to promote the economy of our barrels, promoting our local trade. And, obviously, a key issue that I believe we all need to focus on, from Parliament, and, obviously, also from the Government, and this will help if, among all of us, we obviously bring knowledge and a territorial vision: we need to fight against depopulation, a worrying fact in our country. We need to repopulate the territory. And, therefore, this too for us will be a very important aspect of working on the work that we will start from today on this law. Different from 2004, in this law we will be able to deepen into four aspects, which are..., the rehabilitation of habitats; as I said at the last intervention, the law of 2004 was left to the facades of the habitats, we did the very nice facades, but we did not enter in accessibility, we did not enter into energetically sustainable habitats, and here we must enter. We must also enter into all that is the empowerment of the municipalities, the participation of the local world and the citizenry; as I said, we must have a very important foot, and here I think we have work to do. Therefore, territorial perspective, participation from the base, from the citizenry, from the local world, energy efficiency, sustainable barrels, sustainable habitats and entering the habitat and making changes to the interior to improve the living conditions of the people, which is our goal. It will be important, Counselor, to provide it with resources beyond the call of the Next Generation that we will make on 2022. 2023, which we hope to have approved this law, this new law, therefore... to provide it with resources and to make these comprehensive policies directed at those barrels most vulnerable to the whole territory, to all the towns and cities where necessary, having this territorial vision. I, of course, incorporate the perspectives of gender, the social perspective, the environmental perspective and also, as I said, I repeat, the territorial perspective. I think we have an obligation to ensure equal opportunities for everyone, for all our citizens and citizens across the country, viscose where they are. And in this we will work hard with all of you in this process of law. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-01-1902.222.0	The debate is over, so we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The item received 11 votes in favour, 112 against and 6 abstentions. As the challenge to totality has been rejected, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Some applause.]] And we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
