ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.1.0	Good afternoon. Please, if you want to occupy your escons... Very late, let's start the plenary. [[(Parlongats applause.) Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.) Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, I have not finished my intervention, why ask me the word? (Strong voice remorse.)]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.2.0	In accordance with Rule 90, Madam President, for an appeal to observe the Rules of Procedure and their duty of impartiality, the duty of impartiality of the President, in accordance with Rule 39.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.3.0	Okay. Mr. White Martin, we've already had this conversation with you and me, and you know you don't have the word. I have the power to direct these plenary sessions and I am making my initial intervention. [[Greetings. Some MPs peck their hands at the bait.]] You don't have the word, and I'll keep using the word. We're willing to start a plethora that will dedicate... [[Ignacio Martín Blanco intervenes without using the microphone.]] You don't have the word, Mr. Martín Blanco. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. Mr. Martín Blanco, the return to warn: you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you only have the word if I give you the word for an article of the Rules that is justified; the petition that you are making to me is not justified. I have the power to direct... [[Ignacio Martín Blanco continues to speak without using the microphone.]] Please, Mr. Martín Blanco, you're doing... the code of conduct of this Parliament speaks of good education, which you're not having right now, because you're talking without a word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A deputy who doesn't have the word can't talk. Mr. Martín Blanco, I followed or I was forced to ask you to leave the Cambra. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, we've had this conversation. You don't have the word. I continue with my initial intervention. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. [[Some MPs peck their hands at the bait.]] Ask the deputies who are behaving with closeness in this Parliament. Mr. Martín Blanco, continue, because you have no use for the word. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco continues to speak without using the microphone.]] Mr. Martín Blanco, I repeat it to you, once more, if in yours and until my call to order, I will ask you to leave the room. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, leave the room, please. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] We're willing to start a ple... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.4.0	For compliance with the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. It's... it's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.5.0	No, you don't have the word, though. You are now charged with an article of the Rules, Article 90. Based on what other article do we want to observe the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.6.0	To the President's impartiality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.7.0	All right. You don't have the word, Mr. Carrizosa. I can sweat. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] For the third time and apologizing to the people who accompany us for the bad education that the deputies of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans are having [[strong remorse of the eyes]] I shall proceed with the debate. We're willing to start a ple... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Matías Alonso, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.8.0	To denounce the president's position, absolutely in disagreement with the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.9.0	All right, let's make your complaint, and please, I can come in so we can proceed with the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.10.0	[[Matías Alonso Ruiz intervenes without using the microphone.]] ...totalitarians of the worst of species. A totalitarian use...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.11.0	You don't have the word, Mr. Matías Alonso...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.12.0	She's a totalist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.13.0	You don't know what the word "totalitarian" means, because if you know, you wouldn't be serving. They ask for a little respect for concepts that have cost many people their lives. So, please ask them... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Greetings.]] ... that he knows what he's talking about when he uses the words he's using. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For the third time, I am willing to start a ple that will devote special attention to mental salvation. In a moment and on a few dates... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.14.0	For article 39 of the Rules, to regret their lack of impartiality, their lack of respect for the sovereign will of the people of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.15.0	Mrs. Grau, you don't have the word. Thank you. I can sweat and continue. And put the mask, please, that we're in a pandemic and to use the word... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, he knows perfectly well that the deputies, from his sco, to make use of the word do not take the mask; they only do it when they are in the Faristol or we make the members of the Bureau. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Yes, they know perfectly well; it is the regulations that we have in place. [[Specific debate on mental salvation]] [[255-00005/13]] According to the Health Department, the pandemic has increased by 127_per_cent the queries for anxiety disorders. Suicide is the second cause of death between 15-and-a-nine-year-olds, and one of four people will experience a mental health problem in the long run of their lives. Since the beginning of this parliamentary term, we have expressed the will to make this chamber an open parliament, which constantly listens to the citizenry, to cover its concerns and in this way, to initiate parliamentary initiatives that approach them and that propose solutions to resolve them. I hope that we will all agree that this plenary, in particular today's monographic session on mental salvation, is a good example of this will, precisely in the same week that La Marató de TV3, enguany, dedicated to mental salvation. The search for mental health is always essential, and even more so after the rise of the pandemic and the effects it has had on the citizenry, especially for the mental health of young people, so I encourage all Members and all Parliament staff to participate and actively collaborate in this solidary initiative. And above all, to all the Members, as representatives of the citizenry, I also encourage you to promote awareness around mental health problems for such, as the motto of La Marató d'encany says, break walls and make the problems visible to eliminate the stigma and taboo that still, unfortunately, envelops these situations. In accordance with the sequence that we adopted at the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen, having the divendres of last week, the vote on the motions for resolutions subsequent to the debate is scheduled for divendres, a good deal of the speeches of the parliamentary groups for their presentation and for their position. Let's start, then, the debate. A specific debate on mental salvation which, in accordance with Article 156 of the Rules of Procedure, will govern the establishment of Articles 154 and 155 and, with the hourly sequence that we have granted. In accordance also with Rule 201.1 of the Rules of Procedure, and as agreed by the Board of Spokespersons at the request of two parliamentary groups, Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana, meeting the object of this general debate, a representative of the entity Obertament will intervene in the first place in the plenary. For this reason, I give the word to Mrs Mercè Torrentalle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.16.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President and President, for your sensitivity to these issues. And thank you for giving the vision to the first people and families affected to talk about mental salvation. In the first place, I will introduce myself: soc la Mercè Torrentallé Rocaspana ; la Mercè. A woman from the rural world, a widow, a mother of two and a daughter. Professio : delineating projectist and technical in the prevention of occupational risks. I like to write, read, paint, listen to music, walk through the woods. And among many other things, I'm diagnosed with a severe mental disorder, but this doesn't define me as a person, and it's been a very important part of my life, and thanks to that, I've become an activist and a volunteer. Currently soc the president of Salut Mental la Noguera, Balaguer ; member of the coordinator of Salut Mental Terres de Lleida ; member of the board of directors of Salut Mental Catalunya ; vice president of Obertament ; commissioner of the project Creativity and Salut Mental, and joined the State Network of Women of the Spanish Confederation. With all this, I want to say that volunteering and activism is an important key to my life. You see, according to the WHO, health is physical, psychological and social well-being, and people who have a mental health problem we usually have difficulties in all three aspects: physical, because part of the drugs we are taking, we have insomnia, sonic disorders, sometimes feeding problems, hormonal problems. And we have to bear in mind that most of the drugs we are taking are not tested with a gender perspective, and that alters our sexual organs and our sexuality. Chemical, because we can have decompensations of certainly chemical substances of the brain that cause us to mismanage emotions and feelings. And social, because we're extremely affected by loneliness, social relationships, winging, stigma and self-esteem, and it's hard for us to manage the pains of life and extremes. There are important factors that at the time of talking about emotional suffering if they may not be determinant, but if all three of them can be determinant, very important. The first factor is genetic inheritance. There are families that have a predisposition to have mental health problems. The other is each person's way of being; they correspond to the personality, the way, the sensibility that we all have, and we all, the people in the first person, we get used to taking things very seriously. And the third factor is the pain of life. We don't know how to manage the loss of a job, of a child, of a love, and all this provides us with a lot of extremes. And this factor, with the pandemic, has worsened, and a lot, too, paints a violation of rights that is sometimes more punishing if you are a woman, since you suffer double or triple discrimination. Three of four mentally disturbed women confessed to having suffered domestic violence between home and family. In the world of work, there are few places of specific work for people with emotional difficulties. Those who are used to being precarious and under very low. This makes it possible for some of our collections to have very high levels of poverty. We cost to cover basic needs like housing, to have a dignified life and to keep basic needs covered. But there are also many people who are working on ordinary work who don't like to say that they have emotional patience for the rebuig, the stigma, and that they get rid of their work. In the health field, it is clear that involuntary, both physical and pharmacological or chemical, containment is still practised. This means that they turn you into bed, connected with a few hands, and many times drugs and lax, and if you give and see the rule. This is considered by the WHO to be an act of torture, and we know that today, here and now, at these times, it is still practical. Imagine the suffering that this represents for many people. I, for example, was four days in this situation, without being able to ask for help or that I came to change. There are alternatives to this that are occurring in Europe, and it is very important, for example, as the Polar House. We have to fight for a zero content. And believe me, there's a lot of positive alternatives to you in a time of crisis. We also know that in many areas of society the vision of the first people is not hidden. If you go to the professional, it's justice, well-being, sanitation, citizen security, and you've accompanied it, many times you don't listen to the first person's voice and they direct the professional to the companion. And decisions are made about a person's own life without listening to his or her own voice or will. We have to bear in mind that the brain can get sick like any other part of the body, and we're not sick with pots. We are neither budding nor 365 days of the year nor twenty-four hours of the day. And we want to be responsible for our own decisions and to have a life, as citizens, worthy. That is why it is very important that we work all aspects of the person. We must create interdepartmental policies. We are not trossets, we are complete people, and we must work from teaching, justice, social welfare, sanitation... and these policies must be resourced. It is incomprehensible that sometimes people of the first person have to be half-hearted about their particular buttock, to say it in a way, to launch programs that have been agreed for the Administration. This topic is very important. There is an epilogue and I applaud the initiations like this: to be able to speak to Parliament about everything, also of mental salvation. That's very important. Look, one of four people in the distance of their life can suffer from a mental health problem. And all, absolutely all, you know four people. Therefore, the problem of mental salvation can be felt by you or someone close to you. There are two very important factors at the time to take into account this specific disease, apart from the disease. One is the factor of the lack of community support, and the other is rebuking, stigma and self-stigma. And this disease, if you sometimes have some addiction problem, it gets worse, and you have double discrimination, which is known as dual pathology. And during the pandemic, these processes have increased greatly. The norm of the people say that at the length of their lives they have stopped doing things because of a problem of mental salvation. I would like to explain the story of my life, how stigma has affected me. I'll just tell you two things, 'cause I see they're timing. [[Rialles.]] I'll just tell you two things. Apart from marginalizing me in a small town of 2,500 inhabitants, they marginalized my daughter, and that affected me a lot, and that's what made me become an activist. And he wanted to send you a message of hope. I know it does... but just explain one thing to you for a moment. I soc adopted daughter of the Noguera region, a rough land full of walnuts, and I like to observe nature. The walnut is a tree of slow growth, of noble stem and much appreciated. Late in the years to give fruit, and their fruits have three heads: the first, green and tender; the second, of hard cloister, and the third, which gives then. We, the activists, are a little bit like the walnut. We're slow growing, while we're holding on to punches, noble and appreciated. The flowers are scarcely seen, but we have a fruit with three heads; one green, tender and sensitive; the other narrow and resistant that lasts in time, and that in its interior gives abundant fruit, that is converted into food and food for people in its recovery process. We do not have to fail from our pocket, sometimes it needs to bite stone and specific resources, but there will always be someone who can take advantage of this and give fruit. Please, follow us, follow us, then to generate fruits, and that young people today and those who are not so young have a life without so much emotional patience. Each and every one of your positions, with the prospect of making a society fairer, inclusive and with a gender perspective, and which takes into account policies for the empowerment of people. Because we're not evil with pots, we're people and we want to be right-wing citizens. Thank you for your listening and I remain at your disposal. And thank you for listening to the family's voice. We all need to create a network. There are very powerful initiatives that are due to the end of the associated world. Please, keep us in mind. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.17.0	After the words of the Mercè, I give the word, as this debate is done at the request of the President of the Generalitat, I give the word to the President of the Generalitat, the very honourable Mr Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.18.0	Many honourable Speaker of Parliament; Councillors and Councillors; Members and Deputies; Assistants who today accompany us from Parliament's rostrum; the Federation Salut Mental de Catalunya; the Forum Salut Mental e Addiccions; Ammfeina; the Encaix Association; The Union, and also the first people who today accompany us. Let me begin by thanking Mercè Torrenta for the strength and courage, and for the message you have sent us today to this chamber. Thanks for the activism, thanks for the perseverance. It's not easy to talk about mental health, and much less about the same and the difficulties faced by people who suffer from mental health problems in their day-to-day lives. That's why I want to thank your heart, heart shown at the time of sharing with all of us lives and testimonies. It's not easy to open up like this, but it's necessary. And it was necessary for the Parliament of Catalonia, the highest institutions in our country, to see who saw a problem of mental salvation in the first person. In the language of mental salvation, it is defined..., they speak of the first people to refer to those citizens and citizens who suffer problems of mental salvation, and it is done to value their lives, to place them at the center of what must be the measures to promote a life worthy for everyone. It was absolutely essential today to listen to words like those of Mercè Torrentalle, today, in this chamber. And I feel proud to be a member of a parliament that opens doors to everyone and places debates, despite some beginnings that I'm very sorry... that you've attended some beginning of this House that we haven't wanted many of us, I think it's important that we open doors to everyone. Because it is essential to push for a change of eyes that we must lead all folds around mental salvation; it is essential to break the stigmas that involve mental health problems, to normalize a reality that is often silenced, invisible, and, above all, that this must serve to improve the attention and support that we offer from institutions and public services because everyone who has a problem with these characteristics can continue with his life and enjoy his life with fullness and dignity. As was said before, one_of_each_four people will suffer a mental health problem at the length of their life, one_of_each_four; the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the population. A percentage of this magnitude means that all of us who are here, directly or indirectly, will suffer the consequences of mental health problems; that we will suffer ourselves in the first person or that a person of our own environment will suffer, and that, therefore, will also affect us. This is a reality that surrounds us, and that we must not speak in this Parliament, and we must make commitments, a reality that is well present and the mass has been silenced and damaged. Experts have long warned us that emotional well-being and mental health problems will be one of the great health and social challenges of this century, especially in societies like ours. But, despite this, despite the time it took for this warning to take place, there has been a pandemic that has changed our way of life to begin to become aware of the gravity and the reality of the situation, as we have demonstrated in this Parliament, a little more than a year ago, with the approval of a resolution that already urged us to transform our system of mental health and emotional well-being. As I will try to explain to the length of my intervention, the sotrac that has assumed the covid-19_has multiplied the cases of mental health problems that afflicts the Catalan people. And it's not just a question of Catalonia, but it's shared in many societies like ours, that it suffers and is at risk of suffering the entire population, from the youngest to the greatest, showing a problem of foundations, pre-existing and difficult to deal with with with the whole decision and adopting concrete measures that compromise us all. The cove has filled us with an authentic emotional emergence, an authentic crisis of mental health that we must meet with all ambition, with all. Because, when we talk about salvation and well-being, the emotional, sentimental, psychological dimension of salvation has often been diminished, which is essential because everyone can enjoy a full life. It's a real country and it involves us all, starting with institutions and ending with citizenship on an individual basis. And the first step is to become conscious. That is why today's plethora is so necessary, to be able to speak enough of mental salvation and emotional well-being, to exchange impressions and points of view, to debate and above all to generate consensus, to identify priorities, to conjure us to transform the way we live up to the institutions and from the society itself the problems of mental salvation. The first visit I made as the president was to the Service of Mental Health for Young and Infants of the Tauli Park of Sabadell; a visit I made to contribute to social awareness and also to first-hand knowledge of the mental health problems of the youngest people, as I said, who have also magnified because of the pandemic. On this visit, I expressed the need to promote a national pact of mental health and emotional well-being that must, among many other things, in the first place, bring about a change of mindset, a change of paradigm, which is essential if we are to move forward in this area. We have to set ourselves the goal that people who suffer from a mental health problem are treated as citizens of the right. We need to set ourselves the goal of incorporating the perspective of mental health and emotional well-being into all spheres of life, as we are successfully incorporating the perspective of gender. A transformative will that has to drive a genuine cultural change. Because in relation to mental health and emotional well-being there is not enough to offer more and better services; there is not enough only to raise-there more resources. We need to strengthen the mental health network because everyone has access to it and we don't get there late. To create a new model based on customization, proximity and territorialization of the services. But above all, because this is a success, like a change of eyes that ends with stigma and places people with mental health problems and emotional well-being at the center of all decisions that affect them, recognize them as an equal. Today, Mercè Torrentallé told us about his experience. He has not told us about concrete measures in the field of public services, nor in the field of how we organize public policies, but of personal experience. He told us about the need to place the dignity of people with mental health problems at the centre of decisions. And this is the first change we have to make; it's the first step because I feel the rest. Hence the importance of having a tool as a national pact of mental health and emotional well-being; a tool that must serve, first of all, the people affected and also the families and the most proper surroundings, the professionals and all the agents providing services, all the social spaces and the citizenry in general. The national pact of mental salvation and emotional well-being must be addressed to all of them. And in the same way, to all of them I want to direct today's intervention with the intention of beginning to take collective consciousness that the quality of life, than enjoying a dignified life, goes far beyond material questions, which are essential and indispensable, but goes further, and I want to attend to the emotional well-being of the citizenry as well. In short, these are the reasons for which I asked that today's monogram ple is called. For this reason, I will continue to try to narrow down the size of the problem, identify the master pairs of the national pact and the measures we must begin to implement immediately. He explained to us very well Mercè Torrentallé. For the World Health Organization, salvation is a complete state of physical, psychological, mental and social well-being..., not only for the absence of affections or maladies. But despite the clarity of this definition, on the contrary, we tend to focus on physical and social well-being and we need psychological well-being, when it is obvious that emotional and mental well-being affects and conditions the rest. As has been said, one_of_each_four people will suffer a mental health problem at the length of their life; a huge risk that affects all stages of life. For example: children with learning difficulties, adolescents with a disorder of eating behavior, young paralyzed by the uncertainty of the moment and pressure towards the future, adults who have lost their job or who are experiencing a profound pain for an esteemed person, and great people who live alone and alone, a terrible, unjust loneliness, and who should shame us as a society. All of these are just a few examples of the mental health problems facing society that show that, if we look at them well, or relatively well, the most severe disorders that require continuous treatment, if we can look at them, we can reverse this situation and avoid the hardest cases; evidence that we also have a hard problem with the most common and most light cases, cases that we can detect in time– because today's reality is that they are late..., and it deepens the problem and makes recovery difficult – if we look at them in time, we can guarantee a dignified life for everyone. Given these difficulties of diagnosis, beyond the shortcomings of the own system, there is the social stigma, which acts as a great barrier to asking for help, based on the por, in the way our environment responds more closely, the por as society responds, the por to stay alone. Because, before stigmas, before problems of mental health, there has not been any from society: work and education, in family relations, friendship or partnership, in the health field. This reality of stigma makes many times it end more precisely because of stigma than because of its original problem of mental salvation. And I'd like to place some data. Eighty_per_cent of people with a mental health problem have been discriminated against for this reason; for stigma and discrimination, eighty-two_per_per_cent of people with a mental health problem have chosen to hide – hide – that they have a disorder in some area of their life, and a eighty-nine_per_cent has abandoned essential activities for personal well-being such as socializing, sports, expressing the free opinion or even studying or going to work. It is data from the 2016 survey that must help us to situate the gravity of the situation, and we will all agree that these data are very likely..., « very probably not, sure, because we have the constancy, that the covid-19 and its effects on emotional well-being has made it worse. The confinement and limitation of the free circulation of all citizens, which is necessary to stop the infection, has entailed a psychological impact on the general population, and also, in a much harsher way, on people suffering from mental health problems. Because we have an idea: in May 2020, the EMS multiplied the number of consultations for suicide and self-injury pipelines by four; in April 2020, it tripled the number of alerts for cases of anxiety, and as the confinement widened, this demand ended up being transferred to primary care centres and adult mental health centres. In the case of mental health centres for children and young people, apart from the increase in anxiety disorders, there is an increase in eating disorders. This is why I think we can say that the pandemic has shown that we are not before an individual problem, we are not before the problem that a person is suffering; we are before a collective problem that we are suffering as a society. That's why, precisely because of that, and to give him the best answer, I think we have to put in value the work done, too, because we don't start from scratch. And it would be very unfair, terribly unfair, to neglect the tools we have, and above all, the compromise and dedication of the professionals. We have many services and professionals dedicated to mental health and emotional well-being from the holistic point of view, we dedicate resources to it, and some of Catalonia's services are internationally relevant. But seeing the results, we can't feel satisfied. The reality that surrounds us is that we need to increase the efficiency of these resources. We have a network that in many respects is still weak and vulnerable, which holds up not for the structure of the network, but for the individual dedication of one or other person responsible. We need you to respond to the necessary transversality. Because the problem of mental health is affected by the twenty-four hours of the day, and this involves work, study, socialization spaces, beyond consultation or health services. Therefore, we must act transversally. And, therefore, we have room for improvement. A margin of improvement that has to go through a model change. A model change that has to be built from this national pact of mental health and emotional well-being, which has to serve us to narrow goals, to improve strategies aimed at providing full attention, twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, and to care for people long enough for their lives. And to ensure and above all to stabilize the resources to consolidate the services; some services that have sufficed thanks to the public services, obviously, and to the professionals of the public services, but also thanks to volunteering, social compromise, the empowered and self-organised society, and to give it the capacity and continuity. And from here I would like to point out, as schematically, without being exhaustive, a set of perspectives that we need to take into account if we really want to transform the way we hear and address the problems of mental health that affect the society's set. It's a score. The first one. We have to work from an unequivocal compromise with human rights, the human rights of people who suffer mental health problems, take as reference the New York United Nations conviction, and implement it. We are very clear that the paper sometimes endures everything, and that what is needed is to truly transform reality. We are clear that there are no more guardians, no more cures or incapacitations that are worth; everyone has rights, and their will must be respected, with follow-up, with all the necessary support, as we are doing in the field of Justice. People with mental health problems must be people with all the rights guaranteed, right-wing citizens of a plural and different society that we are and that we want to continue to feel. Secondly, it is essential to work with a clear country visit. To ensure the emotional well-being of the citizenry requires a determined public intervention, of the public services, and here, without any doubt, we must conjure ourselves up to improve the coordination between the different areas in which the Government is responsible. Outside of compartments, mental health affects all areas of society and it is a question that goes far beyond the gaze of the health system. The health system, the Department of Health has a key role to play, but it involves the rest of the government, too. Better interdepartmental and parallel coordination, strengthen cooperation with the rest of the institutions, with the local world, with the assemblies. Many municipalities are already addressing, with limited resources, the problems of mental salvation, above all, from the perspective of the promotion of salvation. It is necessary to create a map of resources that we offer to the citizenry that suffers from a problem of mental health and its surroundings, a map of integral resources, territorialized, that encloses the services that we offer the different administrations. But we must not just remain in the administrations: we must also include the tools and services offered from the own civil society, from the initiatives of the social entities to each territorial area of Catalonia. Three. There's a whole strategy of sensitisation to fight against stigma. They take the experience of entities such as, for example, Obertament, in which Mercè participates and in which today there are also other people who accompany us, who are doing an excellent job against stigma and going further. Because there is not enough to end the stigma: so that the assembly of the citizenry becomes aware of this reality and push forward the cultural change and look, when I have referred repeatedly... to which I have referred repeatedly to the wide scope of this intervention. In this area of the fight against stigma, 2022 we will increase the amount allocated to 400,000 additional_euros. The struggle against stigma, sensitisation, formation... We have to end with emotional illiteracy, with ignorance of mental health problems. This disconnection in good part explains the stigmas and the harms we have as a society. Four. Prevention and detection in all areas of society. We need to expand the gateways and promote the detection of mental health problems at school, at work, at health services, in the Community and social fields. It implies incorporating this look into many public spaces. Evidently, educational centres are of fundamental importance. Also the couples of great people, but also civic centers or work places, to cite some examples. This means promoting the creation of figures that can be responsible for preventing and detecting mental health problems in each of these areas. Figures that will need training and support to be able to handle this responsibility correctly. In parallel, it is necessary to create an observer of mental health and emotional well-being to establish a registry system, to gather information about where we are at every moment and how we can improve all our prevention, detection and monitoring efforts. Five. Transformation of the Mental Health Network, which, therefore, rests on the work of the Health Department. It can continue to strengthen the model, improving it from a preventive approach focused on the community and oriented towards the recovery of people. It is especially relevant to equip us with better detection tools to improve the identification of problems and prevent it from being chronic. And, above all, prevent them from approaching too late, too late. The people of Obertament and other entities in the field of mental salvation these past weeks have been repeatedly explaining to me how the late approach of a mental salvation problem makes it take many conditions much worse, extremely harder after being able to accompany. Therefore, we are driving a program of emotional well-being and mental health to primary care, as Councillor Argimon announced a few weeks ago, with the incorporation of personnel referring to emotional well-being of primary care teams with major social need. As the counselor will later explain, we have already incorporated drawings and professional drawings – one hundred and fifty, and 2022 we expect to incorporate two hundred more. And in the same way, it is essential to focus specifically on various actions, concretely in the field of salvation, which we are already working on, they are already on the march. Implement with all energy the prevention plan of the suicide 2021-2025, transform mental attention... the attention to mental health of infants and young people, strengthen attention to mental health problems and addictions to primary care; increase day-to-day hospitalization places and complete the deployment of teams, homemakers and home-to-home hospitalization intensity in the conjunct of the territory. And to strengthen the community and proactive orientation of mental health services by initiating the conversion of long-term mental health care to an inclusive model that enables recovery, insertion and community support. Six. Paradigm shift, personalized attention and included the community. Everyone has the right to live independently and decide how he wants to live. That is why a paradigm shift is needed and progress towards individualized and customised support depending on each person's needs and intentions. Last week, a professional in the sector, with a lot of experience, advised me not to spend resources only in places – which are obviously necessary – but to spend them, to invest also in human relations. And this is the model we need, a model that seeks the empowerment of the person so that he can exercise as a right-wing citizen. In this sense, it is essential to ensure the employment of people with mental health problems. And also ensure that people with mental health problems who want to continue their studies can do so. Retrieving your work, your studies, your life has a rehabilitative effect, a therapeutic vision that you can contemplate and enhance. In this context, it is very interesting the follow-up between the equals from the experience of the peer-to-peer model, which has a great emancipatory and transformative capacity that we need to be able to adapt to our reality. At the same time, we must age to promote the incorporation into the ordinary business of people with mental health problems. For this reason, the Department of Enterprise and Work is designing a specific line of help for companies that contribute to incorporating people with these characteristics and thus contribute to their rehabilitation and full recovery of their social role. Set, a necessary reference to infants and young people. And, here, we have to recognize with pain that the problem is difficult. One_of_each_five students in our country have learning problems and only learn problems are diagnosed in two_of_each_two. This fact gets worse because the attention we sometimes give is too slow, too spread over time, reaching out to families who can afford to seek help in the private sphere. And here there is a clear limitation of resources, making it worse the problems of inequalities that already exist in our society, inequalities with impact on learning. I am sure that these factors explain, to a good extent, many of the problems of low income, drop-out and school breakdowns that run a part of our education system. In this sense, we need to rethink the functioning of the services we have and expand the tools available to us. To define and deploy a boarding plan for the physical and emotional well-being of the student. It may resolve, at a time, dysfunctions that have occurred and that sometimes exist between the centres of child and youth mental health and the CDIAPs. We need to equip the PAEs, primary care teams, an emotional welfare referendum, and strengthen their relationship with child and youth mental health support centres. It's a teacher training, and it's an extension of the psychological part of the program. "You don't know, healthy girl, and create new tools for assessing the emotional well-being of students, such as the set of questions and studies that the Department of Education is already carrying out. Eight, gender perspective. The prospect of genera, rather, patriarchy is a determinant of mental salvation. Differences between women and men observed along the entire life cycle also impact on mental health issues. According to Health Department data, one_of_each_three women shows emotional discomfort in front of one_of_each_five men. Anxiety and depression diagnoses are more than twice as frequent in women than in men, but in change, less than forty-five percent of studies are women, so there are certain adverse effects. And, in reality, we must not lose sight of the maleistic violence, whether physical or psychological, that ends up provoking and leading to obvious mental health problems. And here I want to address the need to accurately analyse the relationship between women's suicides and male-violation situations. That is why we need a good study to identify possible vulnerabilities, to act specifically and with all determination to reverse an extremely worrying situation. It is necessary to incorporate the gender perspective into the attention to mental health problems and emotional well-being, starting from specific projects of prevention, detection, formation and ending with the design of concrete actions that follow the dimension of mental health genera. Nine, people deprived of liberty. We all agree that the object of deprivation of liberty penises must be rehabilitation and insertion into society. That is why it is essential that there is also an emotional support and a cure for mental health as long as a person enters a prison centre to complete a prison sentence as well, and above all, when he recovers his freedom and has the challenge of interacting with society again, because we do not want him to come back in. That's why we want some pressure to rehabilitate, to accompany. We will further strengthen the coordination already existing, and positive, with the Department of Health and the whole prison area. More specifically, we are looking at certain collections, particularly vulnerable in prison, such as young people and women. And finally, God, I support families and the closer circle of people with mental health problems. We need to do, every day, in public services, at the time of designing and implementing policies, what we are doing today in this Parliament. Listening, listening, listening to people with mental health problems and their families, then being able to inform and accompany. No one else should ever feel any more alone or feel that he is not accompanied, that he is lost. Allowing citizens to feel alone is the worst we could do from institutions. I've located points that, from my point of view, are key and essential. We should add much more: initiatives in the cultural field, in the sport field, in the field of security. That is why all of them must be approached with the highest celerity, in the same plan of government and, more specifically, in the plan of the Department of Health, of the set of departments that have already begun to incorporate the essential perspective of mental health and emotional well-being into all and each of the actions. In fact, in the same premise 2022, that the week that this Parliament sees will approve, already takes important steps in this sense, targeting, in the conjunction, all the actions linked to the programs linked to the mental salvation of the people, more than 580_million euros to policies of mental salvation and emotional well-being. And we continue to dig deeper into the agreements that have been concluded to, even more, support the development of all services and resources – also in human resources – destined for mental salvation. All these are very important steps, but they are not enough. Everyone can suffer from a problem of mental health in the length of his life. That's why we need to make sure everyone gets the attention and support they need so they can get it back. It is important, as I said, to design this model change taking advantage of the national pact for mental salvation, which brings together knowledge, effort and resources to ensure that everyone who suffers from a problem of mental salvation can continue to enjoy life with the maximum of fullness. Members of Parliament, advisers and advisers, we have a lot of work to do. We find ourselves in front of an authentic country repte, one of the great reptes of contemporary society. We must recognize that for too long we have not given him the attention he required. I need to approach him without further delay. It is time to promote, therefore, an important transformation of the system of attention to mental health and emotional well-being. We're all doing it together. We're doing it in position. We're doing it with proposals. I am absolutely convinced that this will be the soul, the will and the commitments that we will make to the assembly of Members and Members of this chamber in this specific House. We have all the energy, all the will to attend to what at this time is a pandemic of mental salvation, an emergence of emotional well-being. We dedicate all the transformative and transformative capacity we have all the political forces of this Parliament. I have no doubt that making life easier, kind and happy for the citizenry also goes by to rethink how we care, as in society, for our emotional well-being and our mental salvation. I'm done. Thank you all for your attention, for your presence and for your dedication in this debate, but also thank you, thank you very much, all the people who have experienced mental health problems in the first person. Thanks to the entities, thanks to the professionals, thanks to the families, to all the collections that have never stopped working to claim a better attention to mental health; a absolutely necessary improvement from the point of view of the Public Administration. Thank you for, when he was much more invisible, putting him on and seeing him. I am convinced that today we will take an important step in this change of vision, in this change of look and this change of paradigm that is essential if we want the country of the future to be a country more just, more ready and worthy for everyone. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.19.0	We then continue the debate with the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups to fix their position, for a maximum of twenty minutes for each group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.20.0	Madam President, Mr Aragonès, advisors and advisors, deputies and deputies..., entities of the realm of mental salvation, welcome. I will immediately focus on mental health, but some first and quick words on the situation of the pandemic; four messages: prudence, first message; according to message, do not respect the pandemic; third message, follow the indications of the health authorities, and fourth message, immunize, immunize and immunize. Counselor Argimon knows he has all the support of my group. And going back to the subject we are dealing with, the important subject we are dealing with, I would also like to begin by thanking all the entities in the field of mental health that accompany us and especially Mercè Torrentallé for his intervention, but above all for his work in favor of mental health. Mrs Torrentallé, we'll try from my group to be us, to be then, as you asked. What's half-beautiful, the one with the three heads, right? We will also try through..., or in the realm of mental health to make a society fairer, more inclusive and with a gender perspective. Because there are many lessons that we have been able to extremate from the pandemic, but for all I want to highlight two: first, that we are vulnerable, and second, that we just don't go anywhere. We are vulnerable, yes, but it is easier to overcome any adversity if we face folds. The pandemic has had a hard impact on the well-being of the population, that is clear, and some of these effects are clearly visible, and the most painful example is the people who left us, but there have also been effects that are not as visible as, for example, the worsening of mental health. Various national and international studies have shown this. It is not time to mourn us; it is time, in change, to strengthen attention to mental health by identifying and managing the most urgent needs both for the general population and for the most vulnerable groups and communities. It is time, especially at this time, to visualize its existence, shut down and act. Because, as I said, it proved with the pandemic that we can overcome any adversity if we do it together. The World Health Organization recognizes that the prevalence of mental disorders continues to have considerable effects on people's salvation. In fact, warns the World Health Organization that mental health problems will be the leading cause of disability in the world in 2030. One_of_each_four people, as has been said, will have an affect of mental health at the length of their life and the life expectancy of people with mental health problems is reduced in a mid-twenty years. These data, in addition, are prior to the pandemic of covid-19, which, as I said at first, has made mental health disorders and addictions worse. Mr. Aragones, let's celebrate this specific Ple made at your petition. I want to congratulate you on the initiative. In fact, you already talked about it in your three investment debates; you committed yourself to developing an integral plan for mental and emotional salvation. I'll tell you that, in this, the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance it will have; it will have its own cost on this issue, eh? There is little talk of mental salvation and there should be more talk. It is a subject that is only reserved for a more private, more intimate sphere and that is almost not dealt with in the public sphere. But I think it's a question, as was also said, that I need to approach openly as we do today with this monogram ple. That you see publics expressing their patience helps not to store, not to continue living in silence. Now, however, what is necessary is to move from debate to action, an action that must be clear and decisive in order to give an answer to those who suffer from mental health problems and addictions. The dice are wound. One adolescent has mental health problems. Suicide attempts among younger youths have increased by twenty-i-set_per_cent. During the year 2020 there was an increase of 127_per_cent in queries for anxiety disorders. The twenty-i-five_per_cent, one_of_four of the first visits, were by anxiety and eating disorders, each time in the earliest age. And forty percent of follow-up visits were not made. With these data, there are many determining factors, but one of them is key: inequality. Living conditions, job insecurity, social exclusion, lack of prospects for the future also increase the risk of anxiety and depression to more often in vulnerable people. In the debate on general policy orientation, my parliamentary group tabled a proposal for a resolution on health in which the Government set out to deploy mental health support arrangements for the impact of the pandemic between the citizenry; a proposal for a resolution that was agreed, negotiated and improved and enriched with the parliamentary groups of Junts for Catalonia and the Republican Esquerra, and a proposal for a resolution in which we all committed ourselves to transforming the mental health network for which there is more pressure. He got the support of a large majority of this chamber; if I'm not wrongly fixed, 115 out of 135 Members. In my view, this vast majority of Parliament should make it possible, it should be possible, to launch initiatives in this area and to respond to six major priorities. First priority: the rights of the patients, put the patient in the center– we have heard the first person's view of the market, of the affected ones–; integration of the user, of the environment, of the families; tutoring and escape from involuntary entrances; to guarantee the right of healthcare, social and work assistance to the length of life; to fight against stigma; to bet on prevention, for explanation, visibility and integration, at school and at work. "We cross walls is a good slogan; they spread all the tools to manage the discomforts of everyday life; we realize it. Second priority: focus on the most vulnerable groups: infants and young people, women and large people. Infants and young people: Specific resources and clear strategies for prevention, both early detection and emotion management teaching, are needed. Young people are the future. Women: the burden of responsibility, the cure and the increase of male violence have been the main factors that have caused or worsened mental health problems that affect women. Great people: unintended loneliness problems, few resources for attention, little therapeutic support; medicalizing is not the only way to enhance the use of non-pharmacological therapeutic techniques. Third priority: to believe in truth that care must be community. Cal, as has also been said, and I agree, an integral and multidisciplinary approach that must focus on coordination in the field of primary care: proximity services; getting out at home; getting in only when strictly necessary, if not, intensive home support. Fourth priority: suicide prevention. We welcome the plan to prevent the government's suicide, so that we can put it in order. More specifically, we need to follow a much more accurate schedule and give support to survivors and family members. Suicide was the first cause of death outside Catalonia, and it is one of the most important public health problems we have today, with very recent news to remind us of. We visited, with the MP Assumpta Escarp, a few months ago, the Telefon de l'Esperanza and we were able to know firsthand the task they make and the important paper that they have developed together with the Barcelona Assembly during these years and these months of severe pandemic. Listen, hear, know it takes time to explain. Five priority: integration of mental health and addictions, but sometimes dealings without connection; integration in the services, also in the provider's performance system. Also here prevention of addictive ducts with or without substance and greater attention to those related to information and communication technologies. Six priority: coordinated action of the entire Administration of the Generality and with the joints. It is not only, it has also been said, and I agree, a problem of salvation, but also that the leadership corresponds primarily to the Department of Health; it is also a social reality that requires Health, Social Rights, Justice, Work, Education ; a coordinated work, in line, and above all without making the traveta or'sde' about responsibilities, and also coordination with the joints, which are the Administration closest to the city and which has a more accurate knowledge of the reality of each right of Catalonia. And coordination and cooperation also with the Government of Spain, which presented last October an action plan 2021-2024, specific, on mental health and covid-19, with 100_million_de_euros, most of which will be managed by the autonomous communities; an action plan with ten priority lines to respond to the enormous psychological impact that the pandemic has had on the entire population and which emphasizes the need to specifically address the most vulnerable groups: children and adolescents, women and older persons. In addition, a few days ago, if I am not mistaken, on the 2nd of September, the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System approved for unanimity, and I have underlined, a new strategy of mental health 2021-2026. In the preparation of the document, up to twenty-five entities participated in it, including associations and scientific societies in the field of mental health, and relied on the consent of all the actors involved. A strategy that incorporates a focus on the rights of the citizenry, social integration and struggle against stigma and recovery of people, which addresses for the first time the improvement of prevention, detection and attention to suicide behavior, with the creation of the title of specialist in child psychiatry and adolescence, in August, together with the commitment to promote mental health training as one of the main measures included in this strategy. And I'm done. At the moment, mental salvation is valued as a priority, with a clear reflection of this in the political debate that we are having, and a general interest of the whole population, which demands a greater political and social commitment on this issue. In this context, politics must be on the rise. The good policy, as we understand it, consists of the public service, being public servers. We are here to provide solutions, to improve the concrete living conditions of people with names and surnames, to relieve the burdens they suffer. I am convinced that one of the very great leaps that our public system of salvation must give is in the realm of mental salvation. And if there is no mental salvation, there is no salvation. The definition of the WHO – greeting as to physical, psychological and social well-being – must be a north in action in this area. We need to place a bet for the better attention to mental health at all levels of the system, both in hospital and primary care. Raising awareness and fighting stigma is very important. We don't have to stigmatize mental disorders as a sign of weakness of those who suffer them. Visibility is an example of courage and courage, because no one is out of danger and because a strong society is the one that is more cohesive, the one that does not exclude, the one that integrates. As I said, we are moving from silence to debate – today we are moving from silence to debate – and now it is time to move from debate to action. The support, Mr Aragonès, members of the Government, have the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance and my staff. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.21.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aragonès, Lewis said that mental pain is less dramatic than physical pain, but that it is more common and also more difficult to endure. It is that the mental pain is equal to the phantom pains: they persist in time, without anyone often realizing that they exist until a slight signal appears that ignites the alarm signals. And that's exactly what happened in Catalonia. The Administration has been obviating for years the medical and social manifestations of psychiatric pathology and the cries of help not only of patients but also of professionals. The endless waiting lists to be evaluated by a psychiatrist and ineffective treatments for lack of proper follow-up prompt these patients to end up decompensated. Public health is not enough to deal with mental health problems; demand is growing and hands are lacking. Serious disorders, such as psychotic outbreaks or major depressions or suicide attempts, no longer have preferential access to the health circuit, ending, at best, in emergency services, which collapse and are limited, because that is their function, to put a patch in the evolution of the pathology. But apart from this, there is a whole web of emotional discomfort, mild psychiatric symptoms and minor disorders that remain in a kind of care limbo, waiting on an endless waiting list. The increase in cases of suicide in young people, Mr Aragonès, is nothing more than the tip of the iceberg, because what et lacks is human capital. To date, in Catalonia there are eleven psychiatrists and nine clinical psychologists per 100_ thousand inhabitants, compared to the European average, which in both cases doubles or triples the Catalan average. This photograph is compounded by the covid's pandemic, which has left a pose of emotional malaise that impoverishes society as a whole, which has fuelled uncertainty and social stress and opened the door to the clinical manifestations of latent mental disorders that threaten to turn the next health crisis into a mental health epidemic. Studies and professionals insist on the need to increase human resources from the front door of the health system and reduce waiting lists to achieve an early diagnosis and proper follow-up, and then you can get to an effective treatment, but you do nothing to solve it. The staff we have at our disposal are exhausted and bored. Health professionals continue to be part of society, and have also entered that wheel of emotional discomfort that surrounds all of Catalonia. The Galatea Foundation talks about the multiplication of consultations by anxiety, depression, insomnia and stress. The results of the study carried out by the foundation, specialized in the health of professionals, with the collaboration of IESE on the impact of covid-19 on health professionals in Catalonia, where more than 4,200 health professionals have been surveyed, are frankly alarming. This study showed that all professionals were talking about a marked deterioration in self-perceived health and the feeling of exhaustion during the first wave of the pandemic, which did not stop reversing during the summer. About thirty_percent of the nurses had been asked to leave during the time of the survey for a topic related to the covid and also about twenty_percent of the doctors, and more than forty_percent of the doctors and nurses felt less physically and emotionally prepared, even one_fifth was considering leaving the profession or anticipating retirement – I know a few of them. Let's talk now about the infrastructure, the scandalous lack of mental health hospital beds – chronic and acute –, the inability of a teenager to enter the hospital, who makes an attempt to commit suicide because there is no infant-juvenile psychiatry plant, the serious eating disorders, which must be taken care of by the patient himself, because the public network lacks enough beds and refuses to agree with the private one. And all, once again, because of you, Mr. Aragonès. Let's talk about what matters to you, gentlemen of the government, judging by your investments. You will see, on the one hand, the creators of the big budgets, the most expansive, as they have been repeating since their presentation, have only increased by fifteen_per_cent the budget in Health, reaching just 4.8_per_cent of Catalonia's GDP, when the Spanish average is 5,6_per_cent. It is of no use to this plenary, neither its achievements nor its plans for mental health shock, if they cannot implement them, mainly because of lack of economic and human resources. No, it's not viable. It's a sterile shock plan, if you don't support it economically. Not only in terms of infrastructure, but also, as I have already said, in terms of human capital, and that requires investment. Investment and show yourself as a friendly and attractive autonomous community. And they're going to allow me to insist that if there's no psychiatrists, if there's no psychologists, and if there's no nurses to carry out this plan, it's because Catalonia doesn't want to come to work. Recently, we have seen a report from the sectarian and supremacist organization of the Platform for the Language where it put in value, or, rather, undervalued a group of professionals who had decided to accept the offer offered by the Department of Health, by presenting what they called "an important deficiency." They didn't speak Catalan, Mr. Aragonès. No matter whether they are good or bad professionals, no matter what we need them, not only to carry out this plan, but also to carry out the reduction of waiting lists, or the strengthening of primary care. The most important thing for you is that you didn't speak Catalan. Is this how they demonstrate how much they care about the health of Catalans? On the other hand, how many psychiatrists do you think will want to settle in Catalonia and form a family after the latest news of harassment of a five - year - old child by demanding his parents a twenty - five percent class in Spanish, as ordered by law? In other words, how many health parents in the rest of Spain or abroad do you think will settle in Catalonia knowing that they will turn their children into Catalan monolinguals? It is possible that you may go to some psychiatrist, I do not tell you that no, as a study of a sick society, but it is difficult for them to establish themselves in order to integrate themselves. Of course, human folly has no limits, and judging by its line of work and its sectarian policies, we have much that we do not have a solution either. You see, in this Parliament there has been talk of the need to increase the health measures necessary to alleviate and mitigate the effects of the deterioration of mental health in Catalan society as a result of the covid, but the truth is that this problem has been on your side for years. They have favored social causes, and have avoided the prevention of this phenomenon. That is, its strategy is based on encouraging the causes and trying to mitigate the consequences, but above them they do wrong. You are irresponsible people who play with the health of the citizenry. Several studies within academic sociology conclude that there are three social factors statistically associated with social welfare. We are taught that, within the etiology of mental disorders and pathologies, there are sociological structural factors that affect the cause in a direct or indirect way of the deterioration or improvement of emotional well-being. Firstly, it is about existence. The first factor is the existence of strong community involvement, strong social ties, and social cohesion and a sense of belonging to a group that allows society as a whole to feel part of a project. In Catalonia the process has been pronounced and the opposite has been promoted. Community ties have been broken, the Spanish nation's sense of inclusiveness has been destroyed, and social cohesion has been damaged by the ideological hysteria of separatism and progressiveism. The only thing they have brought is division, hatred and confrontation, and with it, emotional malaise. What have you done to foster the social cohesion of community bonds and bonds, and meaning, a sense of healthy belonging? I'll tell you what. You have stirred up confrontation and social discord. They face families; they face women against men; atheists against Christians; Catalan speakers against Spanish speakers; separatists against non-separatists; entrepreneurs against workers; current society against the legacy of their ancestors; collectives against families; farmers against radical ecologists; vaccinated against non-vaccinated. In short, everyone against everyone. Your ideology of discord, hatred and confrontation contributes, through the absence of social cohesion in Catalonia, to the emotional malaise of our society, and therefore you are part of the structural causes, of the deterioration of mental health. How do you think university professors who are being watched and accused of speaking Spanish in your field of work feel? , how do you think people who, like them, are being harassed, tormented and harassed all the time just by using Spanish can have emotional stability and mental health? Social cohesion and strong community ties appear not to be part of their governance plan. The second factor is satisfaction and work continuity, which is a key element in the framework of the social causes of emotional well-being. The employment and economic structure related to unemployment rates, the inability to achieve a resumption of normalcy and the widespread feeling of socio-economic malaise in Catalonia increase the levels of stress, anxiety and depression. The tails of hunger, encouraged by the disastrous management of his Government; the lack of entrepreneurial investment, resulting from political instability; the disastrous prospects in the labour market and in the Catalan economy, and the increase in job insecurity, form an explosive package that threatens to further damage the emotional health of Catalans. On the other hand, those who already suffer from psychological disorders are unable to reintegrate themselves into society or the working environment, and suffer a stigma of difficult reversal. According to the study on stigma and discrimination in mental health in Catalonia in 2016, carried out by the Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona, Obra Social la Caixa and Janssen, the rate of unemployment of people with mental disorders stands at approximately 61.9_per_cent, 44.2 points higher than the general population. Seeing that you are lacking in analytical capacity and, therefore, in productive ideas, I give you some proposals, Mr Aragonès: invest in work placement programs; improve the socio-health conditions of patients with mental disorders; improve and increase the provision of protected floors to promote social inclusion, and reduce stigma in professional settings. In short, it prioritizes correctly, leaving itself with ideological alienations and delusions. There's money to solve the problems. Think of Mercè every time you prefer to derive money from your separatist agenda. I repeat: there is money to solve the problems. And the last social factor, and possibly the most important, associated with mental well-being, is family cohesion. The unceasing attack on the part of the globalist elites, those you worship, and from progressive thinking to the institution of the family, their constant attempt to fracture the basic cell of society, of their backbone, leads to the isolation of the individual, to break his foundations, being totally unprotected. The family must be the refuge where people seek emotional security and find stability. The family destruction and precariousness of the family breaks the emotional affective bonds necessary to avoid social fall in problems related to emotional distress and mental illness, such as certain social addictions and behavior. His poor and stagnant investment in support of the family – one per cent of the entire social affairs budget – and birth shows that his Government is more concerned about the isolation of the individual than in supporting institutions that favor his happiness and emotional well-being. In short, the social formula of emotional and mental stability includes community cohesion, job satisfaction and family stability. For now, you have done quite the opposite: you have destroyed social cohesion in Catalonia, encourage a precarious working environment and attack the family as a backbone in a healthy and prosperous society. You cannot have the solution to the deterioration of mental health in Catalonia because you are part of the problem. Its promotion and promotion of hedonistic society, faced and without family ties is incompatible with the design of comprehensive public policies that attack the root of the health and social problem of emotional health in Catalonia. Consider your priorities, gentlemen of the Government. We have detected a savings of more than 1,000_million in ideological and political spending on their budgets. Reconstruct the 200_million_euro budgeted in egalitarian and feminist embassies and indoctrination to combat the health and social causes of mental health deterioration. In short, everything points out that we are going to run out of the health care we need in Catalonia, without a comprehensive mental health shock plan and with a totally wrong political road map, which only seeks to deepen the mistakes of its crazy government and previous governments. That's right, they'll be shielded in big slogans and empty statements as they abandon so many Catalans who suffer and whose lives are in danger. Stop wasting your time and work for the well-being and prosperity of Catalans. They say the state of your life is nothing but a reflection of the state of your mind. Similarly, the state of his management, the management of his Government, is nothing more than a reflection of the state of his minds and his political compass. Stop being an accomplice to the cause and begin to become part of the solution. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.23.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.24.0	Well, thank you, President. First of all, our greetings, our solidarity with the people and entities who are with us today; also to Mrs Mercè Torrentalle, many thanks. And also a message of greeting, support and solidarity to all the professionals of mental salvation, but also to all those who are militants or volunteers in this area. Mirin, our health system was not prepared to deal with a pandemic, and our socio-health system, unfortunately, is not yet prepared to deal with a new emergence, that of mental salvation. Already at the decade of the 1990s the WHO predicted that year 2020 depression would be the second leading cause of disability in the world, after heart disease. This forecast turned out to be short, however, as it is not the second, but the first cause of disability, with 350_million people kicking her out of the world. A mental health problem that already existed before covid-19 and that now the pandemic is increasing: ailment, uncertainty, for, precariousness, poor, masculinism, racism, lack of housing and inadequacies in prevention and treatment at the educational, social and health levels; all folded together with stigmatization and exclusion that still worsen the living conditions of the affected persons and an absence of an education and a culture oriented to mental health. The summary is called crisis, lack of public services, exclusion and a capitalist society with great fevers for what it does to cohesion and community solidarity. For what it does to stigmatization and exclusion, however, we now have an opportunity to change the « turns, why ask us how we are and how we feel has ceased to be a taboo. This is happening to all of us one way or another and at a time. What affects us is no longer just a private issue, in particular, the fruit of personal life; now an important part of what is happening to us is a collection, and this makes it easier for us to talk about a Community model of salvation, of mental health, based on the sectorization of the territory, on the deinstitutionalization of the patients remaining in psychiatric institutions, and also to say that it must be moved from the stigma of recluse to the dignity of integration; from containment, to respect and humanity, without forgetting penal institutions; from exclusion, right, right and inclusion in all normal areas of everyday life in our society. Following Sanchez Crespo, we can say that the benevolent classes, from the control measures of the pandemic of the covid-19, have begun to experience new levels of psychological patience that they may not have known before, but we cannot forget that the disease derived from the denunciations, the work force or precariousness, has long impacted on large strata of the population, and it is that the pandemic has only precipitated a tendency: if anything has served us the pandemic is to tell us the fact that happiness and well-being do not depend so much on each one and how we take things from each other, but on the possibilities that the context provides, the social environment, at every moment. For example, even though the focus is now on suicidal ideation in young people and adolescents for raising a 145_per_cent in the last year, from 2009 to 2016, before the pandemic, the suicide attempts of this collection multiplied by six and self-injuries by fourteen. We have known for decades that mental health, and in concrete terms the most common mental illnesses, such as depression, anxiety disorders, or substance use disorders, are very sensitive to social factors. At our home, Carles Muntaner, with whom we have worked intensively in preparing this Ple, but also others, like Benach and Borrell, have been referring to the chapter of the international research on the relationship between the social class, precarious working conditions and mental health. In short, high classes, such as high-level and professional managers, enjoy better mental health, and low-level supervisors and non-specialized workers have better mental health. Young working-class people tend to suffer the highest rates of depression, anxiety and substance abuse. Every city in the Spanish State says they have symptoms of anxiety and depression later in the year. In Catalonia, medical consultations for psychological and emotional reasons have spread a hundred_30_per_cent, and it continues to increase the consumption of antidepressants and anxiolytics until it already triples the data from before the pandemic. 10,6_percent of the population of fifteen years and more suffering major depression or severe major depression, however, attention! , the 7,4_per_cent of men and 13,7_per_cent of women. Incidence in women is much higher. This percentage increases with age and is higher in people who belong to the least-favored social class– a fourteen_per_cent over 4,2_per_cent of incidence in the highest class–, and in people with a lower level of study: 15,2_per_cent, those who have primary or non-primary studies have, much above, three times more, of 5,2_per_cent of people with university studies. There is no doubt about the class bias that also has the problem of mental salvation, and therefore closely linked to the inequalities, structural and class inequalities that are perpetuated in our society. The same tendencies can be observed in even higher proportions if we speak of emotional discomfort. And we're talking about young people now. During 2020, mental health professionals observed a substantial increase in suicide rates in adolescents. During the first months of 2020, suicides were the first cause of death of unnatural misnames between young people aged between seven and thirty-five. The Government of Catalonia's detection system, the suicide risk code, obtained information on 473 and 601 suicide tempts in young people up to different years in the years 2019 and 2020 respectively. This represents an increase in the twenty-i-set_per_cent during the first year of the pandemic. The detection is badly low at the institutes, where there would be a greater effort on the part of public salvation. The Salut i Escola program, which provides nursing staff to the institutes, with visits to students in a confidential way, not above..., neither up to enough educational centers nor detect enough teenagers with suicidal ideas at these times. It is a cross-sectoral plan that encloses education, social services and health, so as to implement suicide prevention policies and common mental disorders of adolescents. They too, the young, are part of the solution; it is their future. We must listen to them and incorporate their solutions into policies of mental and social salvation. We need to work to eliminate the causes of mental ill-health – poor, in addition, lack of alternatives to socialization outside of consumerism and the open market – and that young people can have a recognizable voice in the debate and in the proposals on their mental health. Catalonia and the rest of the State are at the top of the European Union in the name of psychologists and psychiatrists to public health: six professional for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants, when the European middle is triple – it is triple –; countries comparable with Italy, with Germany or France, have 55.7, 144.9 and 173.6 professionals dedicated to mental health for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants; later, we only have Turkey and Bulgaria. Now that it is up to us to draw the post-pandemic, it would be wise to put the need to make emotional salvation a structural element, to put resources at the disposal and to raise awareness of the citizenry, to seek guidance and psychological support from being an odyssey, or, even worse, a luxury only to the abst of whom it can be paid. The Health Department tells us that with the activation of the suicide risk code it guarantees that, when a person has had a suicide tempt, he/she will have it within seventy-two hours, if it is less than age. In the case of adults, in less than one day there should be a visit by a specialist professional. These terms are too long, unacceptable and incompatible with good prevention and good treatment. I need to dig them out. The Health Department also tells us that from 2023 there will be more clinical psychologists to actually increase the number of professionals in centers such as CSMIJ or CSMA. We can't wait that long – we can't wait that long –, we're calm, with much more urgency and celerity. The gravity of the mental health crisis requires faster and greater responses. And more professional mental health, indeed, it is obvious that yes, sense of doubt, but also to improve their working and working conditions and to lend them to the psychological and emotional support that they need to make their pocket sustainable, highly feminized, with their own mental health. The sum of precariousness, saturation, neglect and more, in contexts still of privatization and concertation – we set an example, among many others, at present, the residence of Villablanca – they put workers at risk right and right. As well as promoting a culture and community practice of mental health, with the participation of affected persons, family members, people of their social background, professionals and support groups, which build a secure, inclusive and curative community environment. And for what it does to the model, the intervention model, some notes, some observations: following the Català Forum of Primary Care, we have to say that all this community health care system has been accompanied by a model that precisely transcends the health services to gather also the patients and the community, and incorporate the look, the vision and the sensibility of those who suffer. If the social and cultural context conditions the social dynamics and the mental and behavioral patterns of the people and, therefore, their discomfort and patience, you should consider what role people and communities should have in the configuration, organization and management of the services that offer them help. Establish a space for patient participation, community identities in the planning and management and evaluation tasks of the services. Participation must be viable for all people, regardless of their social situation, ethnic origin or type and degree of affectation, and must have gender parity. Cal, also, a collaborative model, in which the primary care and mental health teams have a common project in the joint attention to the human emotional suffering of the population that goes up every day to the consultations. Collaboration to address it with quality and benefit of patients. The fact of developing mental health services, geared to primary health care, as well as the balance between secondary care and community care, is a priority of health systems for care of the patient and emotional distress. The education and training of primary health care professionals in this land and the return to this level of disorders, the most frequent and common mental illnesses that occur in the day-to-day life, should be a priority objective. And when sufficient economic resources are available – and it is urgent that we have them – for mental health, these should revert to the cooperation of the primary and secondary levels of assistance and to the effective control of resources for the participation of mental health professionals in primary health care contexts, which implies urgent changes in the organization and in the system of provision of services. But it is not only a matter of relaxing more resources, but also of improving the material conditions of people's lives, which are one of the main causes of psychological discomfort: reaching the end of the month, having access to a decent habitation, accessing good public services, decent jobs that allow us to develop as people; this is fundamental. And when it does not exist, it is essential that people organize themselves so as to hold and defend themselves right, with an empowerment that, in the same sense of doubt, serves to prevent the disruptions of mental salvation: to organize themselves, to organize themselves socially; to organize themselves communally, to fight, to militarily solidly in towns and cities, in networks of mutual help is, in the sense of doubt, also a good instrument of prevention of the disruptions of mental salvation and of better, in the sense of doubt, of the individual and collective mental salvation of all our people. At the same time, in order to prevent mental health disorders and promote emotional well-being, we need to cross emotional education across all areas of life: at school, but also in the adult population, in the community spaces of the barrels, giving basic tools and resources for the management and regulation of our emotional well-being. I have a pedagogy of emotional well-being for the whole population and the whole territory, starting with school, going through all the public services and spaces and reaching all the roots and houses of the community. And finally, we know... – if not, we are not absolutely convinced and convinced – we know perfectly well that only a universal and free public system for mental, integral and transdisciplinary salvation, that articulates primary, secondary and community levels, will have power, will have the capacity and coherence to deal with the growing need for mental salvation. Continued private negotiation and concertation policies will weaken the power of the response and, to be sure – the data show this – will generate hard territorial and social inequalities, both in prevention and in treatment. And lastly, patriarchy and capitalism have built and imposed a system based on male-based violence, racism, alienation and the fetishism of merchandise, exploitation and inequality, and also based, with a sense of doubt, on all forms of repression aimed at maintaining this social order, unequal and violent, with social relations of production and power that foster the vulnerability of collective mental salvation. Now, with very alarming effects – we have said it enough and we will repeat it – also among the young population: drugs, socio-addictions, food disorders, anxiety, depression and suicide are problems and threats that the system encourages and facilitates structurally. The mental salvation of all, therefore, forces us to radically change it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.25.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, and especially the entities that you've been with. And if you'll allow me, in particular, I would like to thank Mercè Torrentalle, the vice president of Obertament, for your witnesses, for your courage and, above all, for the fact that from all the entities to arrive where the institutions do not arrive. You see, in this Parliament we have had a lot of historical debates. And I would say that I am not mistaken if I say that this debate that we are having this late will be one of the most important debates of this legislature. And, besides, it would be good if it wasn't just a debate, but that we would keep talking about this at the length of the entire legislature and that it wouldn't end here. We've taken a very important step towards bringing this room closer to a reality that is patenting a good part of the city. And the only thing we're hoping for is that after every good word, because we've listened to a lot of good words and I'm convinced that at a late age, so, then, there will be an ambitious public policy to deal with the suffering that many people are having. I wanted to start with a statement that it is already common sense on the street and that, unfortunately, this Parliament has not yet known, and that is that the situation of mental salvation in our country is a national emergency. And I'm not exaggerating, it's a national emergency, we see on the side that the emotional discomfort has spread on a good part of the citizenry, and that all those people who already had premeditated pathologies, have yet to get worse with this confinement and this pandemic. Therefore, a national emergence for the city council, and especially for younger generations, that in our home the only thing they have ever known has been a crisis after another. In fact, according to Save the Children, Catalonia is the territory of the State with the youngest with symptoms of mental disorder. We are ahead..., they are ahead of a world without expectations, which for a long time has looked at another side before the collapse of the most basic cements, which offer us security, which offer us certainty and which serve us as killers. And yet... every time they're less, fortunately, but there are still some who talk about the generation of crystal, referring to the young. And I think that's very little shame. And the only glass we should be looking at is the miracle of returning the image of a society where every time there are more people than they cost to live. This is the only miracle we should be looking at. Anxiety, depression, addictions, personality disorders, eating disorders... each time they are becoming a more common landscape in our country. In fact, each of the young people confessed to having been anxious. They're very high figures, it's barbarity. And it's that, besides, beyond the figures, we all have clean people, family, friends and friends who simply tell us that they can't do it anymore. There aren't many people who are telling us that they can't sleep anymore, that they can't sleep, and that if they sleep, so they do it with tranquilizers, they do it with sleepers or they do it, in the best of cases, with a series of fountains, so they don't stay alone with their thoughts. People who can't get up in the morning to go to work, and when they do, so they do it many times with a half-diazepam in the butxaca, with a trankimazin to be able to endure the day. People who can't eat and if they do, it's to throw up later. And, in fact, it's normal that between groups of friends and friends, many times you don't just end up sharing what is the last series, the last movie, or the last book you've read, but you end up going back to the last psychologist you've ever been to. And that, in the best of cases, because that means you can pay for it. And I want to stop at this point; I want to stop at this point because it's clear that we can all sit down, that we can all feel at some point that life is getting out of hand, because there are very difficult times. There are very hard times in life. But there is a key difference, and this difference is between who can pay for the help and between who can't pay for it; between who can't afford to'saturate, take' it for a while, and between who can't do it. Because mental salvation, like the covid, is clear that it is a cross-cutting theme, but it is also a theme – as has been said – that they understand as a genera. And in this case it is no surprise, too, that it impacts more on women, therefore due to pre-existing structural inequalities. That it also depends on the ages, because it affects all ages, but in a different way. And here I won't go into how different fringes affect, but I would like to point out that we listened to experts at the communication media the other day, when they said that during the confinement there had been an increase in cases of sexual abuse and abuse, and we also need to think how we help them. And also clearly mental salvation, and as it is given answer, I understand social classes, because when you get a thousand euros a month and when you have to pay a logger for a room, five hundred euros, so, surely you don't have two hundred euros to go to pay for a therapy, which is what costs a month. And the problem is that when you go to public health you find yourself with great professionals, but that they are directly overwhelmed and that you end up dating two months in two months. And that they're sending you to the psychiatrist for pills, that's what's going on. And why when you have a precarious contract, or when it's after extra hours to get to the end of the month, so you can't call your head, your boss, and say, "Look, I can't go, because I have an anxiety attack." Therefore, of course there is a difference, which also includes social class. In short, they are situations of vital precariousness. And the situation we have at this time in our country is that suicide has become the first non-natural cause of death in Catalonia. And that's a collection failure. After every suicide, what's there is a weakness like the country. Because, when someone wants, institutions have a political duty – and I'd say it's not just political, even moral – to ensure that these people who are painted are not alone. And if we're not doing it, we're not able to do it, we're failing people. And because when there is lack of hope, when there is lack of stability, when there is lack of certainty and security, this is above all a responsibility of all those people we have as the main political task to offer a horizon of future and progress. And, therefore, as I say, diagnosis is emergence, a true national emergence, which, moreover, cannot be written down only with good words. Because, besides, these good words will surely no longer be heard, because we arrive late, we arrive late. And for that, we have to move on to the fact. It is true that in the negotiation of our assumptions, from In Comú We can, with the President, with the Department of Economics, therefore, we reached an agreement to extend the departure of mental salvation and reach 80_million euros. It is true that we have also given 233 new professionals to the psychopedagogic counseling teams that will support the educational centers in attention to mental health and prevention, a subject that is key. It is also true that we have given more psychologists, more psychologists, to mental health centres for both young and adult. And, in addition, we will ensure that all centres of high complexity have a professional in the attention to mental health. But what is clear is that it is not enough, there is not enough, because many years ago we are late on this issue and why, rather than assuming that mental salvation is a national emergence, what it means to assume, just as we have done with the covid, that we need a strategy that follows integral, that must mobilize, as Mercè said, in an interdepartmental way all the resources we have, and also all the administrations must cooperate. We all have to work together to stand up and get out of this hole where the hopes of a whole generation have fallen. We, as we always do today, also come up with proposals, but I would like to say that I believe that the first one we have to do is listen, that we have already done so, and reverse the human rights violations that affect the affected people, as the Vice President of Obertament told us. And from there we do offer three pots. The first and most obvious is to increase the number of psychologists in public health. Catalonia has six psychologists for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants today. What does the European media have? What about the rest of Europe? So it divides psychologists, psychologists, for every hundred_ thousand inhabitants. Therefore, it is urgent to reinforce this template urgently, as I say, so that people do not have to wait two months to be able to be attended. Obviously, it's a ratio that has to work with the State too to increase the PIR seats. Things don't come down from the cell. You have to work together. Secondly, we need to put more effort into prevention. And I will give two examples, two examples of two actions that are taking place in Barcelona, and I think they can extend 'the rest of the country, because, moreover, they have very good results. The first is the Konsulta'm. We're talking about a program that's supposed to happen. It's about psychologists, free psychologists for people who are between twelve and twenty-two years old, who, moreover, can go there without asking for a previous appointment. As I say, it's working very well. And the second is a specific suicide prevention phone. It does not serve 061 – it does not serve – but we need a specific phone so that they can call the people who need it at a given time and also the family members, which is often found before a situation and do not know where to go. And, in the third place, we also need to work in the fight of stigma and visibility. And here I want to stop for a moment too. Talking help to prevent – talking help to prevent. That's when the WHO came forward. I also want to talk, I want to quote the World Health Organization. They've been telling us for a long time that suicide has to be talked about, that it can't be a taboo. Therefore, again insist: talking is prevention. And, therefore, we need publicity campaigns, information campaigns, preventive campaigns of suicide, addictions and feeding disorders. We need to strengthen emotional well-being and mental salvation. Therefore, as I am saying, to act, to prevent and also to make visible are the three friends of the action and of the actions that we have to hard to finish. And, beyond all these proposals, when I say that the issue of mental salvation is an integral issue, I also say that because we would be wrong, and a lot, if we think that this only put more psychology or if we think that it was a short-term moment away from the pandemic. And that's why we need to do a reset and plant us so that every time there are more people who can less with their lives. And there is a first cause, and surely some will not like to listen to this first cause that I will comment on, but I think it's justice to do it and I think it's necessary to do it. This first cause is said to be the ideology of individual salvation, an ideology of individual salvation that says that the responsibility for success or failure in your life is solely and exclusively yours, that leads the new generations to build a personal mark on social networks, with all the evil and obsessions that this ends up with; that you say that if you do not arrive at the end of the month, then it is certainly not enough that you have worked; that you tell a worker from Glovo or Amazon that with forty, forty-five years of age they are with arthritis, they are with a brutal illness, that they do not work enough; that they say to a worker from Glovo or Amazon that they are coming to the diant of the mobile to see if there is a reality above that they have a positive attitude that they do not speak at all. This ideology of individual salvation is cruel, which is behind many of the cases. And, as you see, it's an abyss we fall into when institutions fail. And, sadly, in this country, the institutions carry too much time failing. And that's why the debate we're facing today also went from a country model to an economic model. When we talk about a subject, we need to talk in depth and we need to say everything. And that's why – that's why – you also need to hear the huge contradiction that you're talking about mental health and betting to set up our country's biggest casino in Europe. Not just because you're following a past model, not just because the one you're wearing is precarious; it's a model that's based on a few being made rich at the expense of the desperation and misery of many. They do not understand that the biggest casino in Europe will clearly carry the most addictions, will be more ludopathy and will bring the ruin of many families. Who's the message she's giving to young people? When, in addition, one_of_each_young people between thirteen and divided years already ensures that they have wagered money online. Who's the message we're sending to the new generations? Look, I'm already telling you that we, like In Comú Podemos, of the rest of the parliamentary groups that also want to do it, from the hand of organised civil society, will work hard throughout the legislature to put up with this project, which is barbarity, it's look like it's looky. Because, besides, this didn't freeze the project until 2023. This has to bury a project that is a past model and that will not bring anything good to our people. And I keep going – I keep going – because, as I say, the debate we have today is mental salvation, but it also has to do with the economic and country model. A model that is based on temporary jobs and precarious jobs, which they do is that people look at the future with it. And that is why the repeal of the Labour Reform of the People's Party, which has only brought patience to our families, a derogation that is already on the way, is also a question of mental salvation. You also have the ability to find out when you're unprotected before your company. Today there have been convenient changes for the Prozac. Well, that's why the union, the ability to organize you and also to do it with freedom is also a question of mental salvation. You can see that 30-year-olds can't be exercising their right to emancipate, because they can't afford a decent habitat. Therefore, having a decent habitat is also a question of mental salvation. And we're no longer talking about whether you're gay, lesbian, bisexual, trans... because, besides, all the other factors I've been thinking about, you have to add that you have a lot more chances of suffering aggression, of being repudiated, and a lot more difficult to find a job. Therefore, the law passed and the laws of protection of the LGBTI community is also a question of mental salvation. Just as if you are a woman, because, besides the work you do outside the house, you will have to take care of the children, of the great people of your family; in short, of all the pocket of cures. Plus, you're more likely to experience sexual assault and, plus, they impose on us some aesthetic canons that only generate patience and that are impossible and that we reject. And that's why equality and feminism are also a question of mental salvation. And you also have to face up to the climate crisis in a definitive way. Because a world that only offers catastrophe years in catastrophes until the expiration date of our planet arrives, the only thing it does is generate collective anxiety. In short, president, and I'm done, the debate we have today has to assume, first of all, that we need institutions that protect people. It's got to be more right and less right. He has to count for a whole generation or leave it behind and, in this way, what we would be doing is losing not just the future of Catalonia, but the present of Catalonia and its talent. And he stopped assuming failures and began to have victories. We are clear that victories are not individual, but are collective. And, besides, we have to do all this with policies, we have to do it with resources and, above all, we have to make it clear that this is not a debate of any kind and it is not a debate of any kind. It is the symptom of a society that it needs to be stabilized, they are certain and, above all, it is hope. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.27.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.28.0	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mercè, the speaker today; the attending audience; all those who are watching us: firstly, regret the spectacle they have attended. They believe that it has been involuntary on the part of this parliamentary group that we have been carried away by the indignation of a president who took the floor when she was not supposed to do so. Parliament is to speak. But when we talk, we talk in shifts and who cannot consume a party shift is the president, who is the president of everyone. If it takes a turn, as does the President of the Generalitat, we have the right to reply, because a Parliament is to speak. You can't just talk to a few people over and over you, which is what's happened. That is why they have expelled our spokesman, but we wanted to stay here because of the importance of this extraordinary plenary and regret that the President has taken advantage of this plenary, not tomorrow's, to make those demonstrations absolutely outside her competence. And, having said that, which I think was very necessary, I hope you will hear the end of our speech so that you can see that in those other matters which do not concern the freedoms of these Members, which we understand as an excess and an over-limitation of some political forces and some institutional positions, it is possible that in these important and cross-cutting issues we will agree on things. And you will see it when I finish my brief speech which will then be continued by my partner Anna Grau. I was going to address the President of the Generality. I'm addressing him, who's been away for a moment, okay? , and also to Mr..., to Councillor Argimon, who have given here today, by the mouth of the President of the Generalitat, that mental health will be one of the priorities of this legislature. " Finally! We'd say, but I'm sorry you're late. They are late to implement motion 122, which in the last legislature pushed the then deputy of Ciutadans, the psychiatrist Dr. Blanca Navarro, who today also accompanies us here among the public. Thank you, Blanca, for your work and for staying here. Already then we warned that mental health could not wait. After the ravages of the pandemic and the confinement, it's not that I can't wait. This is an extraordinary urgency. The mental disorder is no longer something extraordinary, dark, innumerable, but it is a threat that can surround anyone at any time of life. Now we have a chance to definitely break the stigma and put us to work, but where to start doing everything that has not been done and to attend to everything that has not been attended to? Do we start with the older people, the big loser, the big forgotten covid? Now it is again in a public health that is digitized toll-free and clumsy, without looking at whether the covid certificates are unloaded and without looking at who is left behind. How many older people who live alone, unable to manage an app without help, are we leaving behind? In mental health services, this danger is particularly serious. And families are the other great forgotten and martyrs of the system. Families come to where public mental health does not, because it cannot or does not want, and they do not receive the necessary recognition or accompaniment. It's just, because they don't take them into account, they're not even consulted. Mental and family patients have to be informed and consulted, they have to be taken into account. Specific guides, accompanying programmes, working community care and, of course, throughout the territory. No more territorial inequities. All of this translates into a great, more magical word: resources and more resources, as well as transparency and more transparency. There will be no mental health plan that is worth it if this government does what it always does: promise, announce, not spend or spend badly and, above all, refuse to clarify how, why, what and with whom what is spent. For example, the suicide prevention plan. Do you really think it is enough for EUR 15 million to deal with such a serious problem? Break the soul to compare this with what you spend on embassies, on TV3, on linguistic persecutions. I want to say in particular to the sick, their families and the professionals of the public health system, who all feel neglected by the Administration in the fight against mental diseases, who ask, sick, families and professionals more means and more economic and human resources, I want to tell everyone that we are with them. We've done our homework. As I said at first, we have a plan for mental health and it is achievable. And the resources are, we just have to prioritize this issue. Mental health has not been a priority for previous governments and I am very afraid that for this government, despite the words, neither. We see every day what its real political and budgetary priorities are. And I'm not going to expand any longer, my partner Anna Grau is going to develop our position in this matter. But I do not want to end without telling you that we are here to make a loyal opposition, especially on those cross-cutting issues that affect everyone; those real problems that all citizens have in their homes, in their homes, in their lives, regardless of who they vote for. We will control and demand as appropriate an opposition in democracy, but we will also propose and eventually assist the Government in this matter. That's why I tell you, President and Counsellor Argimon, that if you want to do something really for the mental health that you have with us. And now my partner Anna Grau will continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.29.0	So then there's the word Ciutadans MP, Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.30.0	Thank you, boss. Thank you, Blanca Navarro, for motion 122 of the last legislature. These are the duties done, here's everything. Thank you, Mercè. MPs, MPs, people... There has been talk here, previous speakers have already said that we are experiencing an epidemic of mental salvation, especially among teenagers, among the great people, among the people who have lost their jobs, among the people who have lost their esteem. And in short, if anything has put the covid to the test, it is the cohesion of this society. We need to renew votes and social contracts. We must give new meaning to the words "governance," "public service," "solidarity and, if I may, even the word "compassion." We need to feel much more sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other; we need to feel sorry for each other. Not a movie star who apparently had everything, like Veronica Forqué, who in pau rested, not a 15-year-old girl who apparently had all her life ahead of her, like Kira López. We're all at Kira or all folds are nothing. I already know that many of you like to say or think that Ciutadans we are a search-raons, that we like to always mount a good chicken– « montapollos, call us some. Nothing further from reality, you know? Citizens is a political party that does not look or want to look like any other. It doesn't matter what high price we sometimes pay for this originality. We're like this and we'll never change. We will never stop denouncing what we think is wrong or fighting for what we think is right, whatever happens and whatever it costs. We are enemies born of separatism and all these governments of Catalonia who ignore more than half of Catalonia and this presidency of Parliament which degrades everything that touches, protects the condemned, expels the Democrats and, in the end, will inevitably also end up disabled by their systematic disregard of the law. [[Some applause.]] We are water and oil with all parties of alleged opposition, but who at least typify gaitas with the abuses in the residences, the targeting of the Spanish speaking children in the schools and..., well, in the end, and due attention to physical and mental health. For the same reason I say to you, we say to you: for whatever it takes to really help people, we are here; to rescue our elders from abandonment, to prevent our children from committing suicide or the families of the mentally ill from succumbing to exhaustion and helplessness, we are here. If this government intends to amend and ends decades of neglect, health cuts and lack of transparency with health spending, if this government finally wants to meet people's needs, they will have us not facing but next door. President Aragones, if you really want a look change, if that's not just empty words and promises, count on Citizens. Counselor and Dr. Argimon, you have my word, our word that for us people is and will always be first. Some of us won't let one pass, but they don't want us to work together with those who tell us that they must seek to go to work with consent and in good faith. If being familiar with a person with mental health problems is already a calvary, it can be calvary and half to the second five parts of our territory. Gentlemen, I visited Lleida's land yesterday and made it very depressed. Per luck, politically depressed; not clinically depressed, of the moment. There I saw large people and small people coming up to immunize themselves on the middle of the street, at three degrees of temperature, who already know that in Lleida the month of December is not precisely Rio de Janeiro, on the side of a bicycle lane, more, that at any time passes a skateboard and gets over. All this after spending 14_million euros in a new hospital, the Arnau de Vilanova, which can't even carry malalts in "trails so the ramps don't fit and they don't go straight. Now it turns out that in that hospital and so badly paid, people can't even be vaccinated, that they have to go to a strange vaccination point that they don't know who they are or who takes the rooms they cost. If they do this with something as scandalous and as notorious as the vaccination of the covid, what will they not do with mental salvation, that until now has been the great invisible pain, the great stigma that no one wanted to mention? You see, counselor, Dr. Argimon, why is it so important and important to pass accounts, to make public the results of the balance sheet and the balance sheet, in summary, room control and result control? It's easy, to know... we all know that you work with very tight assumptions, doped up by the hollow, but right, that you can't even reverse the inertia of decades of cruel retailing. Miracles are asked, Dr. Argimon, and we would like to do them. We want to help him do it, but he is not allowed to water for what he has always done: look at another band, at the management of the Catalan toilet that remains under suspicion. I don't allow the concerted model, which I don't think everyone believes, to lose credibility and to sink into either physical or mental salvation. And if, as I said, we don't forget a lot of territories, let alone talk all day of espola, of fiscal deficit between Catalonia and Spain, and ask ourselves if, for example, the Catalan government doesn't use honest territories like Lleida's, if it doesn't suck much more than it should, of the services it should put in. Are we or aren't we a people's sun, as you always say? Attention to mental health – it has already been said here, but it will never be said enough – cannot be a luxury for those who can pay private assistance or for those who are lucky enough to live in Barcelona or Sant Cugat. Well, as far as this debate goes, let us discuss our motions for resolutions, as well as those of the other groups. I very much hope that in this matter we can reach fruitful, operative agreements of consensus and without miserable sectarianisms. A certain advance... I don't know if pessimism, but a great scepticism of sort, until, as I said, we already come with the dues of the last legislature, thanks to the tenacity that has not stopped a minute of the old and future, because I have no doubt, deputy of Ciutadans, Blanca Navarro. She, and with her all of us, we carry years preaching in a desert of wrong priorities, social insensitivity, and not a hard one for anything that does not follow the cursed independence agenda. But if it is true, as Jaume Sisa said, "any night the sun can rise, which knows whether any day Catalonia can begin to rule in another way. And for now, let's leave it here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.31.0	Then, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, the Member of Parliament, Ms Lorena Roldán, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.32.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. I want to make a preview following that shooting that has occurred in Tarragona, which has resulted in four wounded, one of them in critical condition, two very serious, and therefore, from here on, to wish them a speedy recovery and a happy outcome. There has also been a mosso d'ésquadra injured, but it seems that it is not in danger, and therefore from here also congratulates the work and rapid action of the Mosso d'Esquadra who have been able to stop this, well, the alleged perpetrator of this aggression, of this attack in Tarragona. From here I insist on that congratulations and thanks. When we say that every day they put their lives at risk for defending that of others, it is not a saying, it is a fact, and today it has been demonstrated, as on so many other occasions. This debate has been described as one of the most important debates in the legislature, and it would certainly be so if we did not perhaps have a study committee on mental health and addictions in place. Of course, it turns out that there is consensus, we have achieved for the first time, that it costs us in this Parliament, to find consensus on a subject like this, and, of course, to congratulate us all for agreeing. We managed to set up the study commission. In fact, we are already on the way with the appearances, and Government is pulling out of the sleeve a full in which it has not even given us time to listen to these professionals, these entities that will come to explain to us, because, precisely, how is the situation of mental health in Catalonia right now and what is the diagnosis, and, above all, what can be the possible solutions. And we are doing this plenary, which is fine, and that all that is talking about mental health and raising awareness and raising awareness seems to me to be correct, but I think that perhaps we could have waited for the study committee's work to be completed, or at least to have included in some way, that final report that could come out of the committee. It makes me suspect that maybe it's more of a propaganda thing on the part of the government. I also say, even if it is propaganda, if it is used to talk about mental health, it is useful for all groups to agree and for concrete proposals in this area to come out on Friday and to move forward on the subject of mental health, for it is also welcome, but the truth that has struck me somewhat at the time when this plenary on mental health has been raised. We also have a plan under way, which was explained to us by Councillor Argimon, when he took office at the first appearance we had at the Health Commission. We have also had the opportunity to talk about it in the budgets. It is a plan that, well, already has a more short-term performance in this last quarter of the year, and that will develop over the next four years. They were telling you around here, maybe you're late, and that's true, but you're better late than never. That's where we agree. And again I insist on the same, if all this, if all that we have experienced in the last year and a half or two years serves to make us understand once and for all the importance of mental health, that it is something that we have much closer than we might think a priori, for we are happy and satisfied that it is so. I think it was Freud who said that when the soul suffers, the body complains, and, precisely, that's mental health, and it's that big stranger, maybe, or big covered up, right? It was Mercè Torrentalle, who, by the way, thanks for the intervention he made, which I believe has removed all of us from the inside, right? Personal experiences, when explained in the first person, come even more, so thank you very much. And he was talking about that stigma that accompanies mental health and all the disorders that have to do with mental health. I believe that we still have a very long way to go, and surely from the institutions we have a great role to play with these campaigns of awareness, of awareness, of making known what is involved all that is related to mental health, that we talk about disorders of a very great nature, that we talk about, therefore, from depression, anxiety, phobias, distress disorders, panic disorders, obsessive-compulsive disorders. Now, for example, after the pandemic, we also talk about post-traumatic stress, in many cases. The health professionals themselves are suffering the consequences of having had to live in the first person scenes surely horrible during the pandemic, and that discomfort of not being able to do more than they already did, which was very much. Food disorders as well. There was a time when we were talking a lot in this Parliament, also in the media, about eating disorders that particularly affect young people. It seems we don't talk now, or we don't talk so much, and maybe there's that false belief that they don't get the same intensity as they did then. Yeah, they've gone up too. According to data from the CSMIJ, they are treating up to twenty-one_per_cent of disorders related to eating behaviors. Data, I insist, that we get out of CSMIJ, and this means that there are many others who are not diagnosed or that even the person who is suffering from them is not even aware that they may have a food disorder. And this also happens with the rest of the disorders. I'm very worried about this four-year plan if we're going to be able to deal with everything that's come to us from the pandemic. I believe that, right now, inequalities are being created, because those who have money can pay for treatment, they can pay for therapy, and those who do not, because they do not have access. Right now, for example, with the issue of behavior and eating disorders, it is happening. From Social Security these patients are being referred to private centers, but obviously not all families have these resources and cannot afford it. And I remember that cry for help from a mother who was asking the administrations for help from Twitter, from a social network. I think it was even President Borràs who answered this family. In what situation you have to see yourself and in what despair to throw a tweet into the air to see if anyone reads you. I think that we have to pick it up, from the public health system itself trying to give an answer. That's why I told him I was worried. I understand that it has to be a plan that is going to develop over a period of time that needs those years, but I think we should speed up, especially when we talk about people so young, because we are talking about very early ages. And above all, we also know what is the first cause of death among young people, which is suicide. And, therefore, there we are especially concerned. For a long time there was no talk and it was avoided to say that this was one of the risks among the young population. It was a taboo, surely accompanied and provoked by this stigma, which they told us from the vice president of Obertament. But we have to put an end to it, we have to talk openly, we have to look for solutions, which go, above all, through more prevention and more detection. It's true that we have programs, we have the suicide risk code. It is true that we also have professionals in the educational field, who have been trained, but there has to be a previous response, that is, we cannot just go to the reaction, but we also have to prevent this and make this detection. We must also talk – and I think it was Mercè who said so too – about this community social support, and it is very important. I used to say this can touch us all. It is said that one_of_each_four people may have a mental health disorder. I think more, more than one_of_each_four, because, besides, there are disorders that are punctual, that happen to you at a specific moment, that then you overcome them. Others are more chronified, but I think that we are many more and that no one escapes from a mental health problem, and therefore we have to understand that this is a problem for everyone and that, in order to solve it, we need the help of everyone. And this community social support is also important. I had a look at the Obertament website these days and I especially liked a section where people share their own experience and talk about what has happened to them, and there's like a little blog with entries from several people who suffer from mental health disorders, but of all kinds. And I think this is very important. We must give a voice to mental health, we must explain what is happening and we must also understand the situation in which the person who is suffering from it, but also the people in his environment. And, many times, these are also the great abandoned. I believe that we also need to address the issue of mental health with that support, surely, to the family, which are the most suffering and those who are there always at all times. In addition, a support that normally has gender bias, unfortunately, because it is women who are usually responsible for this type of work, care, support, etc.: mothers, women, sisters, those who are caregivers. And I therefore believe that this situation must also be addressed. Not long ago, in October, on the Day of World Prevention against Suicide, we received here in Parliament, all the parliamentary groups, various entities working in Catalonia on the subject of suicide, but, above all, with the family members, in that accompaniment of what happens next, what happens when someone has that final outcome, gets to end their life and leaves behind those people who, perhaps, or knew nothing about what was happening, had not been able to detect, because it is not easy to do so on many occasions and the person who suffers it is locked in itself, or people who, even knowing it, tried to do it and could not do more, what frustration remains. And it's hard for me to talk about this because I've experienced it very closely, and frustration, disquiet, constantly thinking about what would have happened if... If I could have done more, if I had made one more call, if I had come to one more professional, if I had sat down and talked to that person more often... The feeling you have left is devastating: devastating. And, therefore, one must also think of those family members who remain there, in that environment that remains there and that will always wonder if he could have done anything else. I insist that I have a bit of trouble talking about this subject, but I am convinced that many of us here today have had contact with some situation like this, unfortunately, because the data is... Well, they put the hair at the top. We were talking about data, I am not going to repeat them because practically all groups have already given them, but the situation we are experiencing is very critical. I think we need a revolution within the mental health approach model. We're talking about psychoeducation, psychotherapy. We can't just stay in those pharmacological therapies, but we have to go beyond that. This, in other countries of the European environment, is being done and we here go quite the queue. With the subject of the service portfolio, we have been repeating it for a very long time; it was some group that talked about the possibility of protected floors. Many of these new formulas that are being implemented elsewhere here are not made or made from more private aspects, because the portfolio of services does not contemplate this kind of new ways of doing so. Therefore, we have insisted a lot, but it is that we have had more than a decade with a portfolio of services that is completely obsolete and that we should adapt to these new realities, which will surely be included in the proposals we are presenting on Friday, which I am not going to go into detail, because I insist that on Friday we will have the opportunity to speak more specifically about the proposals. But I think it's important, it's important to know, because I think that even, besides, we don't know exactly what goes into the service portfolio. I think one is very clear that if you have a pinch on your back, you can go to your head doctor and get treatment. If you're at best all day with a lot of anxiety, you can't sleep at night, etc., I think you don't even know if that's going to cover social security, and therefore, there I think you also need to clarify exactly what the situation is and how we have the portfolio of mental health services, especially in CatSalut. We spoke also..., he spoke, and he has also quoted new technologies. I think it is also important that we talk about these new disorders that are caused by new technologies. For example, nomophobia, right? , that disorder that gives you a lot of anxiety if you're away from your mobile for a long time, especially young people who are suffering from it. With the issue of social addictions, ludopathies, etc., we also had the opportunity to debate in this Parliament two legislatures ago on this issue, especially very focused on young people. And of the motion that we came to approve in that plenary there are many things that have not been implemented, and therefore we must get to work. Above all, I insist, with these new technologies that are available to everyone, which are available on 365 days of the year, twenty-four hours a day, and which, therefore, implies that we too, since the Administration, for we are aware of this and work in this area. Anyway. I hope that we will be able to reach consensus on this subject on Friday. I would like it to be that way, we, in fact, proposed and moved to the other groups that the motions for resolutions should be joint, that we should try to sit down and work on joint motions for resolutions, I think it would have been a very good message to the entities working together, working above the political colours. But it has not been possible, but at least I hope that those proposals that have been put forward in plenary will come out with the greatest possible support and that the compromise that President Aragonès has expressed to us here today, which he also told us on the day of his investiture, because it is not left in empty words. We don't have a lot of propaganda, I hope not, and I trust it isn't. Let's put in place this plan that Dr. Argimon explained to us, the Councillor of Salut. And above all, let us also be able to do so in conjunction with the conclusions that we draw from this study committee that we are in the process, because I think it is worth it, because it is going to be the forum where we can hear not only entities such as Obertament, who again thank you for your intervention, but also many others who have been working so long, who at some point – very much, too – have felt alone, have felt alone, have felt unsupported by this Parliament and the groups that make up it, and I hope that this study committee will change that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.33.0	Then, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mrs Titón Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.34.0	Thank you, President. President, councillor, councillor. Also... before I begin and enter into matter, I want to address a few words to the secretary of the table, Mr. Pau Juvillà, who today is the image of repression once more in this Parliament. Say to her, carrying a few words from Maria Mercè Roca : "Naughty children who make life, and with the cost of defying. But I assure all of you that we will undo them. [[Greetings.]] Before, too, as is obvious, thank very much for the words of Mrs Mercè Torrentallé, who has made precisely the first person to explain to us in this Parliament what happens when a mental illness is suffered, and what we need to do, what we ask, what we have this Parliament to do to reverse, to help people, the families of the communities when we talk about mental salvation. Therefore, Mercè, very, very much thanks. And to greet the entities and people with whom we have often shared a wide range of messages about mental health, company and ex-companies of work that we have with us today in this Parliament. Members, there are two, former Members in this Parliament, so we are all welcome in this committee, in a plethora as important as this, because this is not the first time we talk about mental health in this faristol, and it will not be the last. Because, precisely, what we all believe, and you have said many times, and here we have also shared it, as a transformation of the system that touches many keys, and therefore, we will not have to speak force often. However, we must recognize the evolution that has taken place over time in this environment, since not so many years ago we did not speak of mental salvation, we spoke of mental illness. We're not talking about psychiatric hospitalization, we're talking about asylums. We're not talking about community work, we're talking about institutionalization. We're not talking about social inclusion, we're talking about medicalization. We're not talking about first person, as Mercè did today, but we're talking a lot more deeply about containment. And that hasn't been so many years. Therefore, I think I just recognize the effort made for institutions, for professionals, for people, for organised civil society, for associations, for volunteers, for families, to be innovative and disruptive when administration has often failed to do so in the attention of people with mental health problems, and/or addictions, or also intellectual disability. Because without all of them we would have gone a long way, and we would have to go a long way to get where we are now. The cure of mental salvation is a thing of all. It is not only the Department of Health, the Government of Catalonia, but it also involves questioning all the policies emanating from all the government, but also from all the administrations. Mr. Illa, in his intervention, said that the Spanish Government had approved the strategy for mental health. You, when he's headed to the Spanish government, he does it in the castle. I will also say to him: at good times green sleeves, because it was not updated since 2009, but it is certainly true, and it is welcome any initiative that I take to fight against mental health problems and help us to reverse this situation of inferiority that we have shared many times that suffers from the treatment, attention to mental health in our society. So, from the point of view of salvation, we have Community resources that accompany people and families, because today, when we talk about people with mental disorder, we are still dealing with harm, with topics, with stigma and with us, precisely, therefore, giving a much more transversal, more global, interdisciplinary and interdepartmental view that addresses this mental illness and its effects, so that it allows us to accompany the person from this more holistic perspective and giving dignity. We must be able to guarantee and accompany people on their way to life, from the development of maximum personal autonomy, encouraging all and every one of the potentialities of people, fleeing paternalistic visions, evidencing obviously the participation and empowerment of people and also working with families, with and in the community. And to escape paternalism means to listen precisely, I mean precisely to give you and act as we did today in Parliament, giving the word to the person of the Mercè Torrentallé, who from his first person visit puts us in a miracle that we must see all reflected, all of us. Because, it has been said in this far-sightedness many times before, one person will suffer a mental disorder in the length of his life, or that it is the same 82.7 million Europeans will suffer a mental disorder every year; or that it is the same, thirty-four of the 135 Members of this Parliament will suffer or suffer a mental disorder in the length of their life, with the effects that this disorder will bring on all walks of life. And, in this sense, and we have said it many times in your Parliament, the pandemic has been and the measures taken such as confinement have shown us with cruelty the impact of the economic, social and health crisis on people and their mental health; in young people, infants, the great people, people who suffered from loneliness not sought or sought, in many cases accentuated by the social exclusion carried by their own confinement. We have not done or done wrong, without tools or time to be able to manage them fairly well; the stress that we have suffered in all this time of pandemic, that we are still patenting and also the suffering and suffering of those people who are essential servants, that still today, therefore, are working against this virus; the loss of work, of home, of entrances to keep the families; the sinking of expectations, especially in the young sector, and, in general, the porousness and uncertainty that it assumed, supposes and will suppose this virus in our lives. And this has led us to see and appreciate the fragility of our mental health and the need to take action to reverse these problems and put more solid foundations, because now, yes, the perspective of what we look at and act on community mental health and also the perspective of what we look at and act on each of us. Precisely, the data we have from this pandemic for which it causes problems of mental salvation not only ask us, but also force us to take measures that, even though they have a conjunctural origin, have a structural vocation. More than thirty per cent of teenagers between gods and dynasties experience a mental disorder, according to UNICEF data, taking the concept of mental disorder as defined by WHO. Of this thirteen per cent, forty per cent is for anxiety or depression. Every year in the world 45,800 teenage people are killed, equivalent to one every eleven minutes and with a clear gender bias, where women are obviously much more affected. Catalonia has had twenty-two_per_cent more storms than in previous years and the suicide risk code has been activated until October 5,235 times, a thousand times more than the previous year and 2019. And the increase in anxiety disorders is 127.32_per_cent. And people with mental disorders who before the pandemic had a job with support and who kept it after the pandemic – and also taking data from Ammfeina – so it's just a 45.9_per_cent of the people. And I could go on. Therefore, we need to move forward in this area because mental salvation is a basic right and an essential right to complete, simply to achieve the global goals included in the goals for sustainable development. Likewise with physical salvation, it is imperative to put mental salvation at the centre of everything, because in it we base our ability to think, to feel, to learn, to establish important healthy and meaningful social relationships and above all to make contributions to the world to make it better, to achieve healthy communities and nations. We have an obligation to give import and dignity to the lives of people who suffer a mental disorder, because this life is worth living. Mental salvation must be at the centre of those who heal, of those who care, of patients, of families, of entities, of administrations, because mental salvation boils down to it all. And we need to do this with awareness and training on mental health and in all areas so as to combat the stigma that people still suffer with mental health problems today. It's one of the most important battles we have on the table. It's a tired battle, it's a slow battle, it's a continuous battle, but in which we can't lower the guard, because everything and growing awareness about people's state of mental health, stigma still has a powerful force. And it's so powerful that it doesn't just expel the person, but it makes it difficult to recover, its work. And here I think I need to recognize the step taken by people like, for example, Paula Badosa, a referent of the Catalan and world tennis who spoke openly of her depression and who wanted to be happy not only playing tennis, but also doing it out; or Ibai Llanos, influence and youtuber who also explained how to face the anxiety disorders that disease and how to ask for help. And we still remember a lot of Simone Biles, when he had to give up the Tokyo Games when he had all the options to have a medal because, according to his words, he needed to focus on his emotional well-being. They are examples – luckily every time there are more – of people who have the opportunity to make public and with much impact the importance of good mental health. They help so much, so much to break down barriers and overcome the stigma of speaking and acting for the benefit of mental salvation. As Einstein said: "Ours is a sad time, in which it is easier to disintegrate an atom than a harm. So each of these people who talk about it, like today's market, disintegrate prejudices. And that is why I need to work together with a cross-cutting, multidisciplinary and courageous look, so that I can make advanced proposals that overcome the harm and place people with mental health problems and their families in a situation of normality that allows them to face their lives with many more certainty than they have now. So we can't just talk about health care when we talk about mental health, which we also want to be accessible, intergenerational, in a continuum of long-lived care and with the intensity that we convince in every device and at every moment, but we also need to talk about work, we need to talk about housing, lleure, school, over-affiliated vulnerabilities, such as treating people, so with some mental pathology, or not, but that they are deprived of freedom, especially the collection of gifts. We need a good primary prevention that builds a network, that encourages healthy lifestyles and that, where avoidable, mental illness does not occur, and that from the established confidence mark, therefore, serves this network to not medicalize those emotional conditions that are not pathological or that, if so, also facilitates adherence to the treatment of people already diagnosed. But we also have a good secondary prevention, that one time the disease has appeared, the detection, the treatment and the accompanying to minimize it. And so, we need primary attention that deploys and strengthens promotion and prevention in mental health and that acts in a priority way in the community and with the community, coordinating with all those existing devices, with associations, so as to detect these situations of risk of mental illness and that, at times, allows this follow-up not only to the person with a mental disorder, but also to his or her families. And in case you call the hospital, it's time for everyone to reform the middle and long psychiatric state. And you know I know perfectly well what I'm talking about when I say that. Hospitalisation, which must in no case be definitive, must also have a subsequent and Community follow-up. And, therefore, this reform must be accompanied by an increase in Community resources, with intensive attention when this is convincing and close to what is favourable to it. Because a mental illness can affect the person at any time in the extended life, and in most cases a good diagnosis early brings us also to accompany better and to be more effective in this cure. And in this, the school and the learning environment, they have a primordial role. They are spaces of first detection, follow-up and support in a vital age for the child, where good social relations between the equals, a specific support in those aspects that you need, in the band of a work coordinated between the CSMIJs and CDIAPs, and the teaching, obviously, of the school, can be decisive for the future of the child. Without oblivion that, for example, eating disorders or other risk ducts or addictions to drugs or other more or less modern addictions can be worked and avoided from the work of the schools. Now, yes, not leaving alone the teachers, the teachers, but accompanying them and giving training to the teachers, the teachers, but also to the parents and the seas. And neither can we forget about the work. How many times have we heard and said that the work dignifies the person? But how many people with a mental disorder are discriminated against in a work environment. We don't all serve for everything, we don't all have the same abilities, we all have the same virtues, we all have the same vocation, by luck. But we all need to be able to develop with working people, who can be and feel useful. And I say to be able to feel us because I do not focus from a paternalistic perspective, but many Members of this House have heard me say, to avoid the 'ficus effects, right? , those people contracted but who do not have a specific occupation that stimulates and encourages them to want to work. We also need to invest in research. The more research, the better attention. The other day, there was an article published in Neuropsychopharmacology magazine explaining it in a study at the University of Quebec..., where it was said that there were beginning to be evidences of who the causes might be, right? , that in some people, therefore, a mental disorder appeared. More than it's interesting to know why mental illness occurs, it's also important to know how we accompany, how we help, what we have to do and, therefore, how we prevent and how we treat. So, research, research and more research. It has to be a priority. And today, obviously, speaking of research, I can't let the opportunity of asking all of you to work together this week's chapter with La Marató de TV3, which is precisely dedicated and makes us be supportive, and more so..., captivate, I believe, the win-win of global solidarity, right? , to be in solidarity with a marathon that is dedicated, therefore, precisely, to the search for mental salvation. Neither can we forget about the addictions. Each time more needs to work together, as well as in a specific way, with the Drug Addiction Service and the new or not so new additions. The integration of networks has to be a reality, but in addition to efforts and not transcending competitions from one network to the other. I believe that in this camp there are great territorial and proximity experiences that allow us to offer resources and help, I would say almost personalizations. Therefore, enjoy it. We have many reps on the table: the reorganization of the mental health care system, which is the role that primary care should play, as we prevent suicide, as we give the word and actively listen to people who suffer from mental disorders, as we accompany the mental health of adolescents – and we talk about the disorders of food conduct, as well as the disorders of the autistic spectrum, the disorders of development – as we care for the great people, as we value and also accompany the impact that this crisis has had, on gender inequalities, as we care for vulnerable collections, etcetera. Each of these aspects, of these reprehenses, demands a deep analysis job but quick action, because the time has come to give mental salvation the importance it has to all levels. When we created here in Parliament the Commission of Study on Mental Health and Additions I said that I always remembered a few words from a patient I had accompanied, that was Emilio, that he said his life was a ‘to spend hours without a trace.' These words have always accompanied me, because the pain, the loneliness and the feeling of unreliance that they involve force us all to reverse this, and we must offer dignity, we must offer life to people affected by a mental health problem. Goethe said he couldn't visit a madhouse to see disenfranchised minds, because our planet is the institution of mental salvation of the universe. Therefore, in this Parliament I believe that we have no other... than to be worthy of this institution and to take care of us and accompany us by offering cures, life, self-esteem and dignity to everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.35.0	And, finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Juli Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.36.0	Thank you, President. Secretary Juvillà, at your side, before the repression, today and always. Good afternoon, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies. We find ourselves today in front of a monographic ple on mental health, and I can't begin my intervention without putting in store that today and you are selling the Parliament of Catalonia, its people's sovereignty and political debate, is prepared to talk about mental health, about mental health disorders and how to fight against stigma. So, thank him for the proposal, chair, for the petition of this extraordinary plenary, which allows us to talk about it and debate it, because talking about it is important, because that is how we begin to make it possible for things to happen, from knowing, recognizing and acting. And we, from the Republican Left Group, want to make this path from political consensus and also from consensus with civil society and with entities. In this sense, please the presence of all entities in the mental health sector and of professionals in this area who accompany us today and all entities and professionals who, from around the country and every day, carry out a work of care and support for the people affected, the families and their surroundings. Many thanks also to Mercè Torrentalé for his intervention in the first person today in this Faristol, which has excited us and which has clearly left us on the table that the disruptions of mental health and its stigma do not only affect the person who suffers them. She did it very quickly, but I had the opportunity to listen to her in the presentation of the report. "Psychics and schizophrenia, the most misguided words in mental health, and she explained to us that the worst thing she had ever done to her was the stigma and discrimination that her daughter had suffered. Therefore, it is an example that the debate that we are discussing today is not exclusively a health debate, even if it is not just an interdepartmental debate, but that we are in a debate that must bring about that people who suffer or suffer or who may have suffered at some point a mental health disorder we have guaranteed all rights – all rights – with the necessary support, but all rights guaranteed. Therefore, it is a debate about how we guarantee rights of full citizenship to people who suffer mental health disorders during our lives. The pandemic of covid-19 has been and is feeling – and I want to reiterate "is feeling – very hard from the emotional point of view and mental salvation, because we often talk about it in the past. Right now, he's doing it. All this time we have lived and lived the uncertainty; often, especially with the great people, a loneliness provoked by the isolation, many times generated by the por to embalm, or also the anxiety, anxiety and around our situation at work level or of which are our future horizons. A question that had usually been invisible and tainted, that of mental salvation, often treated with shame, is at the middle of the political debate, is at the middle of the social scene, and we have the responsibility to respond and to turn this very harsh situation into an opportunity to transform and equip ourselves with the maximum of tools to deal with it. And this legislature – the day of the establishment of the Mental Health Commission and I repeat it today – will be the legislature of mental health, the legislature that will address and build solutions and tools; not only today, but throughout the entire legislature we will do it, we will do it working on the basis of the study commission on mental health and addictions, which lacks political consensus, and the hand of entities, with preventive character, assistance, to address rehabilitation, welfare, with a community focus and closeness. This plethora of today is already a tool that allows us a space of debate and political consensus to reach agreement and build great consensus. All these lives, the lives built to the Government from the National Pact of Mental Health and those that we realize in Parliament, have for us a clear objective: the comprehensive approach to mental salvation, with the objective that citizens live a full life. And to achieve this full life means to be able to make the decisions that affect you and in this case to have the support to do so. If we do an introspection, we will see that we have trigat seven years, stop the approval of the international convention of New York, in September 2006, to begin – and say « start – to delete from our vocabulary and stop using the words « cure it and protect people with disabilities in our language. Rights, full life; all people must fully enjoy all human rights and their individual autonomy. I'll surprise you with a given, a new given that you haven't listened to throughout the Ple, which is that one_of_each_four people will be able to suffer a mental salvation disease. I think it's a good thing we say it, because it means we're after it. So, if we're after it, I mean we're sensitised and, like us, the whole society. But let me, further away from this joke, deepen it a little further. As Mercè explained before, one of four people will suffer, at the length of our life, a disorder of mental salvation. Mrs. Laïlla explained to us... at the level of deputies, thirty-four of this room. But they think of their surroundings; they think of their families and their friends, of their own. Therefore, this affect is not limited only to one of the four persons, to thirty-four of the Members who are here. Of course, all of us have an intense relationship with three or four fellow Members, even though they are not from our group; surely they are from another. I'm sure we have it. Therefore, an impact on our mental salvation also affects them, the rest. Therefore, any intervention that goes in the line of having tools and being able to overcome these situations of mental health disorders will help us all, not just the thirty-four Members, not just one of every four people, but the whole society. And I think this is the perspective when we talk about integrity and when we talk about impact. Therefore, legislative activity, undertaken with the Mental Health Commission; debate in Parliament; work around the national mental health pact and addictions to it, and also the own diumenge, at the level of society, the initiative around the greatest search, surely in Europe, and with more participation of our associated tissue, engaged in this issue, which, as we have agreed, affects us all and all directly, already with the disruption or the people we believe. Therefore, fighting stigma may be as simple and as difficult to understand that we are part of stigma and that, therefore, perhaps from a selfish point of view the best is to do everything possible because this does not exist, because we are part of it. We want to be an empathic society. We want to educate in emotion, overcome shame, shame or concealment when we need support, when we need resources for our emotional well-being. Before Congresswoman Laïlla called a series of uplifting people who explained that they had experienced it. I've often explained that... all of you are sure that you know that I was mayor of Sabadell. It's an emotional shock, and I often recommend... – before Mrs. Albiach said so – I often recommend my psychologist when she acts like a mayor to my company and company, because I feel like I need to take care of your emotional situation when you're in front of new situations that are complex, and so you need help. And I encourage everyone to share it, because sometimes we confound success with invulnerability, especially emotional, and thinking it's a sign of fever, and it's certainly much stronger to recognize your fever and do something to overcome it. Obviously, with situations that socio-economic bias particularly affects. Before I get into this part, I share some data that I'm sure they did, but I think it's important to be able to remember again, and maybe I'll do it in a different way. Every forty seconds, in the world, one person dies because of suicide. In Catalonia, it would be one person every twenty hours. And, for every death by suicide, came, came more, tried. Suicide is the leading cause of unnatural death and the second cause of death between 15- and 20-year-olds in Catalonia; eating disorders in adolescents have increased twenty-five percent from confinement, and recent studies indicate that three young people may have self-injured in their lives some time, with an increase of seventy-four percent from consultations during the pandemic. And to focus on how difficult it is for people with mental disorders to be part of our society and have a full life, eight of every person with mental health problems does not have a job. Therefore, as in all health problems, mental health disorders, social determinants, external determinants, they are a very important part. The WHO mental health report concludes that good mental health is integral and that the mental health of the person and many of his or her most common mental disorders are related to the economic, social and physical environment of people. Therefore, we have much work to do around not only the health system, but also the construction of the network that will solve the mental health problems of our people, but also around those policies that allow us to develop our full life. I share with you, in order to end up, our visit to where they should go. Not only did he visit her, but also some examples of what has already begun to pass in this line. Prevention and awareness, reinforcement of the public system, community network to make the way of life, equity and accessibility to the whole territory. These we believe are the main lines of work, and they are not just words; there is work done, there is work that has begun to be done in our country. How can it be, for example, the comprehensive approach program of mental health cases and high complexity addictions, with the deployment of the guiding teams, which give support and go looking for people, young people, with high complexity problems of mental health around them, which is one of the difficulties that you surely know in the first person much better than I do. Just as we have also started with the strength of the primary school, with the incorporation of the emotional welfare referents, 150 encanny, 220 the coming year. And also, and finally, another example, such as the deployment of the suicide prevention plan in Catalonia. Allow me a parenthesis now that I'm talking about suicide. One aspect that we think it is important to put on the table is to talk, obviously, as we do today, to agree, but more importantly, to talk to it well. And Mr. Enric Aragonès, family doctor and mental health researcher, in the report of the Observers for Mitjans and Mental Health of 2018, makes a very uncertain observation to our parent, and it is that he shows that there is a tendency to talk a lot about the causes of suicide and very little about the alternatives or solutions that can be offered in this situation. So let us return to these three aspects in which we have started to walk: development, deployment of the guide teams, reinforcement of the network, prevention plan. Three of the lines he had previously marked. We need a realistic approach to mental health for our society, to approach it from the cross-cutting, from the integrality, walking towards global awareness, like the gods before, from empathy. And let me end by pointing out that the best support for a mentally disturbed person is being able to be part of society. Surely, to have a full life, with the support necessary to be able to do so. And this way... it'll be the best treatment. If we can do this, it'll be the treatment that will get less medicalization. And the Republicans and I commit ourselves today to being an active part of the construction of solutions to transform the lives of people and their surroundings. It's putting people's lives, people's lives at the center, their needs at the center how best we can work to build a better and more dignified society. Thank you, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.37.0	All the same, in order to respond to the interventions of the parliamentary groups, we will continue with the intervention of the Government. It has the word, in the first place, the Counsellor of the Presidency, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.38.0	Well, thank you, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies... First of all to greet the entities that accompany us: Salut Mental Catalunya, Forum Salut Mental e Addiccions, Ammfeina, association Encaix, the Union and first people, to thank you in the first place the work that I did in your day to day to support people who have problems of mental health and also the fight especially against stigma. As you all know and know, and, in fact, it has become evident in this House, policies for mental health and emotional well-being require a cross-cutting approach, and in this sense, we are making a paradigm shift, and, in fact, we need to translate into all the actions we do. The social transformation of what we often talk about must also be reflected in the realm of mental salvation. Because if a large part of the resources are the professionals and professionals of salvation, and that obviously will explain to them, therefore, the Councillor of Salvation, we must have a much broader view. And, in fact, we need a great deal of country agreement to harmonise and keep folds, at all levels, from all departments of the Generality, but also with the firm commitment of all institutions, also this, also in Parliament or local governments and civil society. That's why today also from the Presidency, a department that works interdepartmental issues and institutional relationships, we also answer in this House. Let me also tell you that in another life I worked in the field of mental health from a social point of view and that, therefore, I had the chance to meet and learn from people like Mercè. I knew a lot of Merces and therefore I knew a lot of first-hand this community visit that we needed to address this issue: listening, making a good diagnosis of the situation in which we are, but also above all prioritizing, concrete and executing in the most efficient way and that we can be useful to the community as a whole and especially to the people who suffer from it in the first person and around them. Often we talk about families, but we also have to talk about the surroundings, about friends, about friends, of course, about people who suffer from mental health problems. It is true, as we have reiterated this late, that the pandemic of the covid has placed the focus on the impact of people's emotional well-being, and it is true that in many sectors of the population the situation of emotional well-being has worsened, and it has been made in more concrete fringes of age, because young people, infants and certainly the great people are the collectivities that have suffered, therefore, more or sometimes extreme loneliness. And, obviously, also people who were already socially vulnerable, but also victims of gender-based violence, male-based violence, women who suffer male-based violence who have had to live with their abusers. And, obviously, also those who had a condition of having a problem of mental salvation. But, in fact, we've seen all of us vulnerable to this other pandemic, because the social determinants of salvation have just opened up in this sense. But, as you know perfectly well, the work in Catalonia in relation to mental salvation, with a cross-community vision, goes from the moon. We've been working for some time now on this integral care plan for people with addictions and addictions, as well as having the mental health plan and addictions. And in this sense, we've moved on, but we've also done a lot of learning and we've evaluated what hasn't just come out so well so far. And in these conclusions, we have the challenge of coordinating and optimizing all the resources we have allocated to it. And that's why we've reactivated the entire mental health plan. Certainly, we need an impetus, a joint strategy of countries that bring together knowledge, effort and resources of different actors. In fact, we've put it into the plan of government and today the president has also explained to us that we will make a national pact of mental health and emotional well-being. Because, for a band, we're aware of the limitations we've had, not just from a point of view of resources, but we've had a broad, panoramic look, to set priorities, to straighten out, especially in these lines that I'll spell out. On one side, comprehensive strategies not only with a strictly vision of the field of salvation, but in social, educational, housing, labor, leure, physical or cultural issues. There are a lot of resources in this sense. Also, for example, protective floors. But I'm sure they're squandering more resources, that they're insufficient. Because, in fact, we need to be able to respond to all citizenry in all vital stages. We need to strengthen personal itineraries, we need to strengthen home and community supports to avoid institutionalization as far as possible and always from scientific evidence: from one side, good practices, but also from the other, rights and ethics. We have to give answers from the Administration once we get until we go to sleep. And it's that these strategies don't need us reinventing them, but most of them are very clear and the international organizations are pushing us here. It's done by the WHO, it's done by UNICEF or the same UN. But we need to get them straight, we need to prioritize them, and we need to make them talk to each other. Beyond the strictly salutation, that will explain to you the councillor of Salutation, obviously, to talk about sensitisation, to talk about accompanying, to talk about gathering, facilitating and giving support. Our obligation as an administration is to see how we can help all citizens from a holistic perspective, without any type of exclusion. And in this sense, it is up to us to talk about the referendum that we always have: the New York Convention, of the United Nations, and that we all have to implement it and we have to turn it into concrete actions. We are very clear that we are walking towards a model change, a paradigm change, that we can no longer talk about the protections or the modification of capacity, but that everyone has the capabilities, everyone has the rights and we must respect their wishes. People with mental health problems must have all the rights guaranteed and, therefore, they must be people of full right, with the possibility of having the support they need. And that is why, as we have said, we must continue to put the emphasis on community vision, because only collectively, not looking at individuality, can we capture the emergence in mental salvation that we live. And in the field of prevention, allow me to speak of education, of awareness against stigma, which will obviously facilitate understanding and general approach to these problems of mental health. And, therefore, congratulate us on the initiative of TV3 and La Marató de TV3 d'enguany, which will certainly be a success again, but also on the work done by the communication media in this sense during each day of the year. In the field of education, because we do need to put children and young people at the centre and their mental health, we need to analyze the state of emotional well-being and mental health of the student at the educational centre in Catalonia and, therefore, promote and care for and prevent the emotional well-being of our young and young. And in this sense, we already have a concrete proposal on the table that is the deployment of the board of approach for the physical and emotional well-being of the student, to detect as soon as possible better risk situations. As I said, we have a clear community perspective, which must be seen by people in the condition of problematic mental salvation from a point of view of rights, from a point of view of being active and not just passive protagonists. Therefore, promoting the consolidation of preventive and community action of mental health networks and addictions and, therefore, having a clear deinstitutionalizing mission. And, for another band, give more opportunities and better opportunities. The presupposition, which will be approved for the coming week, provides for a pilot plan on universal basic income, which sets out an economic welfare base for everyone and which, sense doubt, seriousness, and we always like to explain, one of the measures that could best favor the emotional well-being of people who are in complex situations. Also allow me to talk to you about the benefits that you have, and that we have to promote, the sport linked to salvation, also to mental salvation. As Mrs d'Esports, I would like to recall here that the practice of sports activity is preventive, but it also needs to be deepened in that it is prescriptive to improve our emotional well-being. For another band, it can distribute resources equitably throughout the territory, reinforcing attention during all the vital stages of the person, but also with the powerful community networks to combat stigma associated with mental health and addictive behavior. Because in this way we will ensure the recovery, empowerment or employment of people with this problem and also, for another band, the support and orientation of families and around them. Allow me to put up with the job opportunities. Obviously, we will work folded, also with the representatives of the workers and the workers, but, for another band, also with their own companies, to address all the challenges we have in the insertion and recovery of people with mental health problems. Because the monitoring and adequacy of working conditions for these people is important. We need to make it easier and easier to follow in the search of a band, but then also in the maintenance of work, because everyone can develop their vital projects, let no one go back and promote socialization and take advantage of everyone's abilities, above all, of everyone's abilities. For another group, in the area of persons deprived of liberty, here we have to guarantee assistance in the matter of mental health and addictions in prisons or juvenile centres and provide them with the programs and treatments of health and addictions. They know that the first time it is detects a mental health problem is the first time it enters a prison center, because, obviously, it puts the emphasis on detection, but also on the articulation of all the supports that fall. For another band, and from the point of view of feminist transformation, here too we don't have to talk. It is clear that differences in mental health between men and women are observed along the entire life cycle. Anxiety and depression diagnoses are more than twice as frequent in women than in men, because, in fact, less than forty-five percent of the studies on disorders analyzes the gene factor. According to WHO, there are factors in which it is explained that women have this major percentage of problems associated with mental health. On one side, male violence; on the other, there is a lower social status or lower average entries. And this bias in the diagnosis of depression, for example, can mean that women, or often men, do not get the right treatment. Moreover, in women the percentage of stigma and discrimination is higher, it is in fifty-six per cent of cases; a difference that, in fact, increases if we compare it with the younger women and men. And here too, it is essential that we apply the gender perspective. For another band, we need to learn and accompany all the entities that you work in the field of mental health and that you have spent years working to improve the living conditions of people with mental health problems, and to put the foundations so that all the city can have and can be prepared to face a situation of this type. And finally, and most especially, we'll have to work folds with the rest of the institutions. We are aware that a lot of work is being done at different levels and that we can add existing initiatives in the local area, for example, but if these initiatives are duplicated or not coordinated enough with the rest we will not be using the resources of those we have, and, for another band, citizenship will be lost in this sense. Also in this Parliament we will have to talk about a lot of mental health in the Commission of Study on Mental Health and Additions, because we want to do it hand in hand and unite the efforts of the program for the elaboration of the national pact of mental health that we will inge from the Presidency. Therefore, it is obvious that the reptes are immense – we know – but we can't wait, this country can't wait any longer. We are able to work together in this national pact; we are not convinced that it is the priority of everyone, of all of us here, and we are also convinced that important and relevant proposals for resolution will emerge from this debate because of the issue we are talking about. On one side, it will also support this elaboration of the National Pact of Mental Health; on the other, strengthening mental health networks and making the necessary transformations to add to this community visit to make a more inclusive society, but also to detect and prevent at the earliest moments. We will also be pleased to promote a programme of cultural outreach to people with mental health problems, to receive culture, and also to receive sport. And, from the inclusive view, investing resources in the area of promoting job opportunities – and that's basic – promote individualized work access programs, but also deeper in the assessment, the psychosocial risks, which many companies have begun to do, but we still need to do much more intensively, and strengthen the areas of safety and health. And, obviously, as I said, the resolutions that vagrant in the line of securing the gender perspective. Also explain – and I have already finished – that from the Department of Presidency, with this cross-sectional view, we will allocate the economic support to falsify, to finance the project«Situa'ti, from another band, the strategy of country against stigma, so that we can have a unique window to all territories in a territorially equitable way and that, therefore, all families, around and people in the first person have the support in each of the territories. We know what challenges we have to tackle, which are great, but we have all sectors and actors running in the same direction. Therefore, to give tools, to give support and opportunities to people affected by mental health; here we will find all of us, for the Mercè and for all the Mercès de Catalunya. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.39.0	Next, the greeting counselor will speak. Therefore, the word has the advisor, Mr Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.40.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Members, Members and, above all, all the people who accompany us... The President has already collected much of the projects that we have in the field of mental salvation from the point of view of salvation, but I would like to point out some data that has not been commented on, which is that, for example, we, in the field of salvation, are destined for a five-per-cent of the premise, when the countries of our circle are destined for between the eight and the nine-per-cent – this is a first element that we need to have present. If we certainly count – that's what we have to count – all public policies, this difference would be bigger, surely it would be that way. It has also been said that we have a ratio of psychologists or psychiatrists per hundred thousand inhabitants to be improved, certainly. But, above all – and this is a point that I would like to comment on, and it has been commented on in all the interventions and I will refer to it later – we need to look at mental salvation more than just look at it from the point of view of health care. If we just look at it from the health care point of view, we'll be wrong. I will, because near this, this rest and this look of health care, but I will also refer to other aspects beyond what is health care itself. The first meeting that I did when I arrived at the Health Council – the first – was with the Mental Health Advisor Council; it is a counsellor formed by professionals, by different entities, also for the First Person movement, and they, that day, when I asked them « what do we have to do? They also self-criticized, and the first one they said was, "We have to do things differently. We should try to be more proactive; we should have a much more community-based look. For example, we are the country that has the most beds of long psychiatric stay, and we have some territories in Catalonia, the same Girona, which practically has left them to zero. And if a hundred miles further up, a hundred miles further up north, we can do it to all of Catalonia. Or the Bages, which is also there with this country, so it's a place for us to walk. Clearly, I'm also getting a lot more attention at home, and so all the teams we've been riding have been home-care teams, preferably. Or prioritise attention to infants and young people, because many cases of mental health disorders, therefore, start precisely at this age. And improve coordination between primary care and CSMAs and CSMIJs, humanization and, above all, reduce involuntary entries as well. In short, it means putting people's rights at the center of attention. We, too, from this point of view, designed, and we presented already in July in Parliament, so some initiatives to quickly put on the march, such as the suicide prevention plan, which is a legacy of what is the suicide risk code. In this sense, in the last few years we also have to say that the suicide risk code has had some very good results, even though Congressman Riera said – and also gave in the key – that we still need to improve a few points of attention. But it's also true that the year 2014, when the suicide risk code starts, only the twenty-five percent of young people ended up being visited for a mental health appeal, and now it's almost ninety-five percent. But there's still a lot more going on to improve the problem of emotional well-being, which is what we've already talked about. And, from this point of view, the program of emotional welfare referents, which are primarily psychologists, people who are prevention and health promotion – a very important element – are not paying direct attention but are doing community work. These two guiding teams – which has already been mentioned, has already been referred to by Congressman Juli Fernández –, who are already on the march, are for the case of very high complexity. And now, in the next year 22, we will start the interdisciplinary teams of intervention in crisis at home, that will give coverage to all that is..., to all the territories, to all that are severe mental disorders, anxiety, depression, attempts of autolysis, disorders of food conduct, also with great predominance of attention at home. And it's undeniable that all this is basic to move forward – it's undeniable – but we need to have a much broader look. We all know how social and economic determinants impact on salvation, we all know it, on all evils, but mainly – mainly – on mental salvation. If you go to the Quality Agency, to the observers of the economic crisis and the inequalities, you see the different reports as precisely where the social and economic inequalities are most impacted to mental health: the level of low studies, people with an economic, social and economic level disfavors and women. Basically, that's what impacts us. And on this, if we want to be radical, is to say, if we want to go to the scene of the problem, we have to work on this, on the social and economic determinants that affect salvation. We can put more psychology, which we have to put – which we have to put – but with this we will not deal with or solve the problem. So, I repeat, we need to put more psychologists, more psychiatrists, more servants, more psychiatric infirmary, but if we just do that, we're wrong. And we'll be wrong especially if we medicalize more, even more, everyday life. The truth is, we have her very medicalized, and if we medicalize her the more wrong we are, I think we're wrong. And with this, too, when we talk about references to emotional well-being, one of the objectives we have is to demedicate our daily lives precisely. Because, for example, here we are talking about emotional discomfort– and it has also been commented on – precisely with young people, and it is true, and the intentions of autolysis, and I no longer speak of autolysis intentions, I speak above all of this discomfort, of this disassociation – this word has also been used. I here have given some examples. We can put these references to welfare, we can put these psychologists, but if we have more than thirty_per_cent youth it's complicated for a person to have a healthy situation. If the 19th year – data of Idescat – the average wage of a young person is almost two thousand euros less than the 12th year in the middle of the economic crisis – lower, eh? , two_thousand – it's hard to have a healthy life. If the age of a young woman, a young woman, emancipating herself is in her 30s, it's hard to get a perspective. We can pose psychologists, we can pose them and we have to pose them, but let's disengage ourselves, that's not addressing the problem of mental health in its full size. Therefore, we in pla 21-25 make our vision very clear, and I believe that the vision of what is salvation, greeting, to say it in some way, more in capital, beyond health care, which is to pursue a healthy population where people can individually and collectively enjoy a physical and emotional well-being in all their potential from an integrated vision of salvation, taking into account their social and economic determinants, care, respect for autonomy, self-determination, self-determination, self-determination and care for the surroundings. That is why it is necessary not only to focus on the system's resource. I, as you will understand, want more resources, I need more resources, I need much more – much more – but we can't just think about that. We need to think with a transformative view of the system, certainly – and that is why we need resources – but we need to warn..., or we need to think with a transformative view of our society, if not, we will hardly address the problems of mental health. And look at salvation in a very holistic way. Mercè Torrentallé's own wife valued the power of the arts and mental salvation – she did not make a point here. She, a long time ago, made a visit to the National Museum of Art in Catalonia, with which we also have, the Department of Health, agree, well, and with fourteen more museums, from a point of view, precisely, of the power of art as it can heal, as it helps healing and helps what salvation is. And, therefore, this is the idea that I think we should be flying through all this House and also for the good part, therefore, of the motions for resolution that can be thrown into the way. And another idea. We're working on a national mental health pact. And now you will think: "Listen, the Department of Salvation is all over the place. I'm not overworked, we're not cheating on each other. But I would say that this pact will succeed if Greeting – from the department, I speak – has a little prominence; if it has a little prominence, it means that we are really addressing the problems of the environment. I, uh, repeat it, huh? A little bit of leadership, but more resources, huh? But, somehow, a little more leadership, more resources, but above all to address the problems of the settlement. We need this pact to move forward in a transformative approach – which I am convinced we will – in a cross-sectoral and multi-factorial governance that involves the entire government, and that means society as a whole. And here I am convinced that this national pact will have a key role. And when the whole society says what I want to say is to strengthen the commitment, our commitment to people, with mutual help, with solidarity, indispensable for a collective salvation. And, in fact, we have just listened to Mercè also explaining first-person need for social cohesion and community support, all around, as well as the need to strengthen the role of the associated world and of First-person and family entities. I, as we speak of collective salvation – and now I'm finished – also want to keep some words for the health professionals. They also need this emotional well-being, from emotional well-being to the citizenry that they are, that we are. The president spoke of emotional emergence, and they certainly also need emotional well-being. And in these moments, so, there's this discomfort, isn't there? , to our society there is, and this is also translated, for example – and today we are talking to Government – into attacks. We had an attack on a health center a few days ago we had it in Salt. We've seen that at some point of vaccination there's also at times, so, uh, let's just say it's exciting, right? That they see it too badly and that they also need this situation... for a lot of things, huh? I repeat, like the citizenry – this double-window – and also the professional. I hope we get out of here. I'm not convinced. This is a global challenge, and so we don't have to go out, and sometimes it's an ethical compromise that we all have, and so we don't have to go out. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-14-2001.41.0	There was still a round of interventions, but the Members agreed that there would be no response from the groups. Therefore, without further ado on the order of the day of this meeting today, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock. Thank you very much.
