ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.1.0	Good morning. I want to start by apologizing to the citizenry and to this whole assembly of deputies, as well as to the government in the offices that they also accompany us, for the delay in starting this solemn plethora of investiture. There was a parliamentary group that considered it opportune to enter a review five minutes before this plenary began, after having celebrated the Bureau and Board of Spokespersons, which had to be reconvened. Before starting, too, the order of the day I would like to greet on behalf of the Chamber the Presidents of the Parliament and the Presidents of the Government of Catalonia who are today following this plenary session of the other Chambers of Parliament, which, in order to complete the measures of covid we find ourselves in the Auditor, cannot be visible in the gallery of authorities. [[Congratulation and condolence of male violence and compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and policies for the gathering of migrants]] This legislature is grappling with a situation of democratic, health and social abnormality. There's been a feminicide, the last 25 years, and 292 people have lost their lives to the Mediterranean in which we are carrying a year. It is the will of this presidency not to normalize the violence suffered by women, nor the vital difficulties of hundreds of thousands of people who are forced to migrate, nor any violation of the fundamental rights. So, I'll have them arrive at the voting delegations that have been admitted to court, according to Rule 95 of the Rules of Procedure. The deputies Teresa Pallarès, Lluís Puig and Eusebi Campdepadrós have delegated their vote to the deputy Gemma Geis, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. And deputy Ruben Wagensberg has delegated his vote to deputy Josep Maria Jové, president of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.2.0	Well, first to see if I can handle... well, thank you, President. He asks for the word to express the opinion of our group before this chamber, precisely for what you said, for the respect of the deputies of this chamber on their decision to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.3.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word to do this. He made it to the Board of Spokespersons, we listened to him, the Bureau took its deliberation. And so, it starts now, without any further delay, this investiture. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you do not have the word to make an explanation of what you have already done in the opportune field, which was that of the Board of Spokesman. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He's not expecting me to give him the word to explain what he's already done to the Spokesman's Board. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perfect, I've already made him guess he doesn't have the word. [[Program debate and investiture vote of MP Pere Aragonès Garcia, candidate proposed to the Presidency of the Generality]] [[201-00001/13]] The only item on the order of the day of this plenary session is the debate on the programme and the investiture vote of Deputy Pere Aragonès Garcia, proposed candidate for the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. And according to Rule 149.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, the investiture debate begins preceptively with the reading of the resolution of the President of the Parliament, in which the candidate for the presidency of the Generality is proposed. I ask the secretary first to read, please, this resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.4.0	Thank you, President. "In accordance with Article 4 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, they consulted the representatives of the parties and political groups with parliamentary representation, proposed to the chamber the deputy Pere Aragonès Garcia as candidate for the Presidency of the Generality. The president, Laura Borràs and Castanyer. Palau del Parlament, March 24, 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.5.0	Thank you very much, secretaries. Next, the proposed candidate, Mr. Pere Aragonès Garcia, has the word, no time limit. Forward, please. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.6.0	Thank you very much. Most honourable President of Parliament; honourable members of the outgoing Government; benvolgued companies and benvolgued companies; benvolgued Members of Parliament; benvolgued Members of Parliament; authorities, representatives of the Generality, representatives and ex-presidents of Parliament; citizens and citizens of Catalonia, very good morning to all. Very good day to all and to all, from all the country, with the said visions and origins, that they proved to be our rich and underprivileged one was not willing to build a project of shared future. I compare before all of you to present my candidacy to the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia, to explain to you what my project is, what government I want, how I want to govern and how I would like to transform the country to overcome the multiple crises we are experiencing. I compare before all of you to present my candidacy for the presidency of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I am prepared and have all the energy to face the set of emergencies that require us, without further delay, to dispose, after mass of forced interinitiation, of a strong, stable, efficient and ambitious government. The new Republican Generality that I want to captivate will be a government that will be at the side of people to jointly overcome the very difficult situation that the country has seen. And it will be a government with all the creativity, with all the innovation, with all the will of change, to transform the country, building a new Catalonia, that we want it to be ready, fair, feminist, green and fully free. Let me begin by thanking you for your predisposition, to all the deputies and to all the deputies and to the citizenry that is following us, to listen to me. The willingness to give me the opportunity to present to you the transformative government proposal that I want to encapsulate, because to have the will to listen is a necessary condition if we want to hear; to identify what we share and all what we need to be able to overcome in order to reach a solid and stable agreement to move the country forward again. To make it move forward, to transform it and to make it fully free. Thank you for wanting to listen to me. I will also do so in the turn of the day, with all the empathy and with all the will to improve the proposal that I will present to you this morning, in view of the new stage that the country needs to open. I will listen to them carefully, with absolute will of sum, from their contributions. Because I am convinced that as the broadest, pluralistic and diverse points of view follow, we will give the best response to the conjunction of Catalonian citizenship, to all Catalans and Catalans, without any exclusion. We are here for this: to listen, to propose, to hear us, to reach agreement as many amps as possible to start giving shape to the new Republican Generality. And with this end in mind, I'll talk to all the French and all the clarity, as I've always done. Because if we want to agree, beyond listening to us and being willing to hear them, I think we all need to explain ourselves with all honesty and absolute transparency. Addressing all of you, I'm also heading to the city of Catalonia, because it's them to whom they owe us and because it's with them who I want to establish my government commitment for this legislature. For this reason, I will make it clear, without further delay, that the government that I want to encapsulate will have three clear and clear objectives: to face with total determination the social emergencies and inequalities that we suffer and that the pandemic has made worse; to promote economic reconstruction, aimed at laying the foundations of a new model of production that measures its strength in terms of prosperity and welfare for everyone, and to direct the resolution of the political conflict with the State, making amnesty and self-determination inevitable. Give immediate response to social emergence. Boost transformative economic reconstruction and resolve the political conflict with the State. These are the commitments I have made to submit my candidacy to the Presidency of the Generality. And these are the commitments for which I would like to be assessed if I rely on your trust today. It won't be easy, conscious sock. The reptes are huge. But I do know that these targets are still great country targets. That all of us, with our differences, want to settle. For this, we must be able to find joint outputs, shared proposals. We must be able to build consensus that strengthens us as society, and this can only be done from the point of view of politics – the art of working, hearing, reaching agreements with those with whom you disagree. I think this is our responsibility before the citizenry if we want to act accordingly. And we don't have more time to lose. I have begun the intervention by identifying the general objectives of the legislature, which I believe many of us share; if not, with a large majority of what we are here. And from these objectives, I will address you and the country's city council with the objective of convincing them to trust me. I will talk to you about how I understand the country; how I understand Catalonia and why I propose to open a new stage. I'll talk to you about how the new Republican Generality will be governed. And I'll talk to you about the future and the commitments we'll make in this legislature to make it possible. I will try to convince them why a left-wing government is needed, that you seek a way out of the crisis in a transformative claus and that you work unequivocally for the common good. I will try to convince them why it takes a government that understands and commits to make the resolution of the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State inevitably pass through amnesty and self-determination; it inevitably passes through a reference to independence for freedom of political prisoners and prisoners and the return of exiles and exiles. And I'll try to convince them why we need a government that knows how to use the strength that it gives us to have overcome by the independence forces, for the first time, the border of 50 percent votes, in order to move firmly towards the Catalan Republic. From here, let's start. I have a republican conception of the country; a republican conception of the value we give to the idea of citizenship, to the idea of catalanity, to the idea of birth, to take away the visks, the hymns and the flags, as Joan Fuster said, and, at the same time, anchoring us with all determination in the value of freedom, equity and solidarity as elements of a fully empowered and emancipated citizenry. Today, to be Catalan, to be Catalan, to a good extent is this: it is to want to be part of a project of future collection, shared, to build a better, fairer and more motivated society for the search for equity and equal opportunities; a society of rights and freedoms, with a citizenship with a civic and social commitment; an open and plural society, everywhere in the world, come from, is welcome. Today, being Catalan, being Catalan, without any doubt, starts from a modern national inscription that has not seen historical reminiscences or that looks at origins, but that rests its strength in the construction of a project of shared future that in good part passes through the search for the common good. And that's what makes us stronger, that's what makes us cohesive and that's what makes us unstoppable as a society. There is not a single form or a single good form of sticking to this idea of catalanity, it is not heritage excluded from anyone, nor does it have the heritage of left-wing policies. Actually, this is her fort. I am approaching, as is well known, an independentist proposal, because I sincerely believe that building this future of shared prosperity requires having the tools of an independent state. For me, national freedom and social justice go hand in hand, they are two caressing of the same coin. And hearing that explains why I'm an independentist, explains why I'm a left-handed, like, in fact, it's a growing majority of Catalan society. There is someone who comes close to the idea of catalanity, of birth, of citizenship of other approaches and political proposals that are perfectly legitimate, but for me they are completely insufficient so that they do not guarantee the process that I am ambitious for Catalonia. But, despite this, I am convinced that we share the idea that Catalonia is a nation and that it moves us to build a better future for all the citizens we want to join. That's why I think we all need to make our own, and we need to revitalize that old slogan of "Catalonia, a people's sun." Because, despite the different political proposals that we have, despite the differences, the vast majority of the representatives of this Parliament share that Catalonia is a nation, and this lowest denominator cannot be allowed to lose, we have the cohesion of the country, of society. To say that we are a nation and that we are a people's sun is the antidote that we have before the speeches of the por and the exclusion that have done so much harm these last years. For this reason, affirming that we are a nation and that we are a people's sun must be the basis of any shared future project for Catalonia. This is the guarantee that no one will be left behind and that no one will be excluded, regardless of whose political proposal we all propose. I think this is a good starting point, the recognition of Catalonia as a birthplace and the idea of Catalonia as a people's sun. Catalonia is not so much an administrative reality nor a trace of boundaries, borders on a map, nor a mere decentralisation. Catalonia is a nation and a people, two historical consensuses that remain in force and that must guide our political action at all times. Personally, I've always taken a lot into account, and my intention is that these two concepts play, if I'm confident, a neural role that I want to be my stage as President of the Generality. Because, in fact, my idea of the Catalan Republic is nothing other than that of a Catalonian with a full national recognition and with a citizenship which, on the margin of its origin, on the margin of the language I speak, on the margin of its beliefs, on the margin of its administrative situation of whether or not it has papers, shares a similar project of the future. In short, a nation is its people, all its people, with its projects, its anxieties, its needs, its frustrations and our shortcomings, but above all, with hopes, illusions and commitments of the city council. I don't find anything again. This republican conception and progress of the Catalan nation goes from lluny, a republican kingly son who pulls with Pi and Margall and chain Valentí Almirall, Roca and Farreras, Gabriel Alomar, Rafael Campalans and Rovira and Virgili ; a republican kingly son who intertwines with Salvador Segui, Francesc Layret and Joan Peiró, with Serra i Moret and with Josep Pallach ; who is his presidents Macià, Companies, Irla and Tarradellas, but also pioneers of republicanism, with Nativity Yarza, Justa Goicoechea, Consul Nogueras, Fidela Renom or Hope Martí, the first mayor and the first kings of Catalonia democratically chosen. This is the kingly thread that joins Joan Fuster and Enyorat Paco Candel, the kingly thread of Montserrat Roig and Maria Aurelia Capmany, Josep Benet and Josep Fontana. This is the kingly thread of my republicanism, and my goal is to give continuity to the political project of progress and freedom they imagined, which we imagine for our country. I imagine and want a country that makes it clear that without equality it has not freed it, and this happens to ensure that everyone is equally free, that there is no power to impose itself on others or to dominate citizenship; that happens to ensure that everyone enjoys the material conditions that make it possible to say that we are citizens and citizens free. And it also goes so far as to understand that individual freedom is not full if collective freedom is not allowed. I imagine today a country where fraternity is an inseparable element of true economic freedom. There is no economic freedom with unequal labour relations and when it is forced to sort between precariousness or poor; there is no economic freedom when oligopolises exercise a dominant position that conditions and limits workers, entrepreneurs, professionals and small entrepreneurs. This is why it defends public intervention by mediating regulation and mediating the active role of public administrations in the market, as well as operators in the market, to correct the natural tendency of markets to create positions of domains that adulterate economic freedom. I imagine today a feminist country, because without sorority it has not freed it. We need to eradicate all the discriminations, rapes and complicit silences that accompany them; we need to bury patriarchy if we want to be a real free society where 50 percent of the population ceases to be citizens second to the sun because they are women. It is essential to compromise the cultural and economic system change that involves incorporating feminism as one of the foundations of our political actions and decisions. I imagine today a country that understands that there are many ways to cherish, many, many, many, and that all of them have the right to build a future, to build families. I imagine and want an ecological country, compromised with the preservation of the environment and biodiversity, and with the fight against climate change; without delay and without excuse, because climate emergence does not wait. And that approaches with ambition the ecological transition, which must be a fair transition because you represent more opportunities for the majority. Because ensuring the continuity of the planet doesn't have to be a privilege that benefits a few, but we'll do it among all of us or we won't be able to do it. I imagine and want a country that I was born, that I built a political community from the plurality of origins and languages that enriches us, where racism does not exist and where català recovers the central role of finding language and as a source of cohesion and social progress that has historically played. I imagine, today, a Europeanist country, that seeks to build a future shared with all the peoples and nations of Europe, because with all of them we share the values of freedom, equality, justice, progress, poverty, solidarity, tolerance and diversity. A country that looked to the world and participated in the management of global reptes. Because today the world is smaller than ever and we need an international policy of defending our own interests and values. I imagine and want a country that looks at its people and is fixed as priority the happiness of its citizens. A country that thinks of great, that remains ambitious, that overcomes victimism in a circle that makes us small. A country that makes us proud. In Joan Miró's words: "We Catalans believe that we must always touch from few to the ground if we want to make leaps through the hollow air. The fact that I return to the land from time to time allows me to jump as far as possible. I think this country idea, today, it's possible, it's imperative. That is why I am convinced that these Republican ideals must guide the new stage and serve to overcome the multiple crises that affect the country and how we want to deal with them from the new Republican Generality. I was referring, at first, to the clear and clear objectives of the government that I want to encapsulate: to face emergencies and fight against inequalities; to promote economic recovery and to address the resolution of the political conflict with the State. I'm starting with emergencies and fighting inequality. I think we all know perfectly well the crisis situation in the country. The health crisis caused by the covid-19 has triggered a deep social and economic crisis and a silent emotional crisis. And to these crises – to the social and economic crisis, to the silent emotional crisis – we must add the democratic crisis that threatens to be chronicled. They are very real, persistent and profound crises, which overlap, which interrelate and need to address from a global perspective to respond to the complexity that surrounds them. We all know the reality of the health crisis. Now a little more than a year ago we detected the first case of covid-19 in Catalonia. From then on, we have not stopped fighting for a moment to defeat a virus that has taken more than 21,200 people to Catalonia and that, despite each time we have the most controlled, continues to be a great threat to our lives. Thanks to the experience we have accumulated and especially thanks to the effort of the healthcare staff, each time the charges are shorter and cause fewer victims. But the current data reminds us that we cannot relax for a moment before a virus that has changed our lives. The vaccination campaign is on the side of the group immunity, but despite the fact that it is still able to manage up to 500,000 cows per week, as you know, we lack the most important: to have more doses. We have spaces, we have professionals, we have communication methods with the citizenry, and we just need to get enough cows. It is important that the State and the same European Union resolve problems with pharmaceutical companies once and for all in order to give the vaccination campaign the impetus it needs and thus help to improve the epidemiological situation and to alleviate its social and economic impact. As we are slowing down the vaccination campaign, more months remain of restrictions and restrictions on social and economic activity, and this makes it difficult to recover from a very deep crisis, which, unlike the previous ones, is caused by an external shock to the economy but which has a very profound impact, both in terms of loss of jobs and the fall of gross domestic product. In Catalonia, today, there are more than half a million grown-ups. One hundred and fifty thousand have all its members at large. The increase in the number of jobs has focused especially on the social sectors that already suffer before the pandemic, higher levels of precariousness and vulnerability. According to the latest survey of active population, the tourist rate in Catalonia is 13.9_per_cent, 3.4 percentage points higher than one year ago: 13.9_per_cent. In women it is 15_per_cent, four percentage points more than a year ago. And in girls from seven to twenty-four years, from 38,1_per_cent, 11.9 points more percentages than a year ago. We already started from high, unbearable, poor and unequal mass levels. And the effects of the pandemic are causing a social crisis that needs to be addressed urgently. This is the left that doesn't stop spreading if. This is the crisis that is dividing Catalonia. This is the division we have to fight, without delay, without intermission, with all the functions and with all the tools. This situation of precariousness and inequality is growing. It means that many families and families have difficulty staying in their habitat, feeding properly and sufficiently, and it is an accelerator of situations of vulnerability that have escaped from the people, the cities, the barrels of our country; situations that are very visible, but they also leave many others unseen, and we do have problems. We also have to face an emotional crisis. I'm sure they've heard me say it again. For many, the year 2020_has been the worst year of our lives. They've lost family and friends; they've lost jobs and they've shut down. To protect us, our personal relationships have been interfered with by masks, by mass distance, by wearing pants and by mass moonlight. And that has a huge emotional impact. For a lot of people, your life plan is over. For many young people, the pandemic has wiped out their plans for the future and is causing anxiety, discouragement and apathy in the most vital stage of life. Many families have delayed having children, and this can exacerbate an already worrying demographic crisis, which puts the viability of our welfare system at risk, as we have understood to our day. And many people have seen their loneliness worsened, at a time of fear and fear before a pandemic that has placed them as one of the most vulnerable collectivities; a loneliness that is one of the evils of our contemporary society. We need to regenerate expectations and expectations of the future. We need people to regain confidence and vitality. We need no one else to stand back or feel the sun. No entrails, no one that is I've been sunned. On the other hand, the pandemic has brought forth the good and better of this country; some professionals of essential compromised services, who have risked their lives for all of us. The solidarity present, the community solidarity present in our peoples and in our barrels; the innovation, the science and the talent put in the service of defense of salvation and of defense of life; the feeling of community that has made us collectively assume daily sacrifices to protect our lives, our families, our friends, fellow workers or students; the unpayable value of what is shared, of what is common, of what is public, of what is essential. I have talked about the emergencies and inequalities, the crises caused by the covid-19, and to all of them we have to add the democratic crisis caused by the inability of the Spanish State to give a political fate to the majority of Catalans and Catalans to decide peacefully, democratically and freely the future political of the country. The resolution of the conflict is, therefore, as I said to the Inician, one of the clear objectives of the government that I want to captivate. Let us remember the objectives: to respond to emergencies, to combat inequalities, to promote reconstruction and, as I said, to resolve politically and democratically the conflict surrounding the relationship between Catalonia and the Spanish State. We want the city council to learn, putting forward a reference of self-determination, which is the best way to generate well-being and prosperity for everyone, to improve the lives of all, where we are in favor and those who are against the Catalan Republic can manifest and fight with the same freedom. I think it's a fair, democratic, simple way to resolve the conflict, because the alternative that until today proposed the State, the alternative of judicialization and repression, along with resolving it, makes the deficiencies and shortcomings of the Spanish democratic system worse. While the conflict between the Spanish State and Catalonia is not resolved democratically, democracy will be in crisis. And to this crisis, today we have to add the threat posed by the eruption of the uncomplicated ultrathreat in Parliament; formations cultivating hatred. That is why we will always oppose your speech about persecution and discrimination. And we will not rest until we are able to remove the fascism and racism from the institutions and the Catalan society. In the face of all these crises, it is time to open a new stage, to rewrite the guide of the last years, from which they expressed at the polls the conjunction of Catalans and Catalans on the past 14th of February. We are an unappealable majority of left and progress. We are an unappealable majority in favour of amnesty and self-determination. We are an unappealable majority in favour of the Catalan Republic. This is the majority will of Catalonia's citizens expressed in the ballot box. And what corresponds to all of us who share these ideas is to make this will come true, through a broad, strong, cohesive, plural government and with a solid parliamentary majority. Today, in this Parliament, there is a vast majority of left and progressive who want a way out of the crisis into a transformative claus. And, today, this Parliament can push a government that works unequivocally for the common good. Today, in this Parliament, we are a vast majority of Parliamentarians who know that the resolution of the conflict between the Spanish State and Catalonia inevitably goes through a referendum, and that the freedom of prisoners and the return of exiles and exiles is imperative. Today, this Parliament can push – today, this Parliament can push – a government that works tirelessly for amnesty and self-determination. Today, in this Parliament, we are a vast majority, as ever before, in favour of Catalonia's independence. And today, this Parliament can push a government – today, this Parliament can push a government – that knows how to use the strength that it gives us to have first exceeded 50_percent of the votes to advance firmly and firmly towards the Catalan Republic. No absolute majority, but there is a will of a majority in favour of a government led by the independence of the left, led by Esquerra Republicana, which took the pledge to transform the country and to start the phase of resolving the conflict with the State at once. These, as I said to the original, are my commitments. No one has an absolute majority. And this forces us to reach agreements that benefit the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship, as we knew with the agreement of assumptions in 2020, focusing on shared objectives, focusing on our common denominators, which are there, which are many and which are the key to overcoming today's crisis. If we want to open a new stage, if we don't want to misrepresent the historic opportunity to make the sack that the country needs, we all need to overcome the mistrusts with which we share project and trajectory. The best way to overcome mistrust is to get out of the comfort zone and work together. We have the opportunity to push for a strong, plural and stable government to start a new stage of progress, social justice and freedom; a government with all the strength, responsibility and legitimacy that is irreplaceable and indelible and that holds it to be the fruit of democratic elections that have shown a diverse country, but with great shared ideas that are cohesive with us. That's why I want to thank the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win the Efforts, Empathy and Generosity Showed to Reach an Investment Agreement and the Commitment to Engage During the Legislature. I also know that this will depend on the fulfillment and the compliment of the commitments we have made and from then on I will work to make them come true. I want to thank the generosity of the CUP and its predisposition to the agreement. We have spoken, we have listened to each other, we have understood each other; it is not easy the step that has been taken and I deeply appreciate it, because I am convinced that it is very good news that the CUP is making efforts to help us transform the country. I know that it is not necessary to customize, and less in a party with the political tradition of the Popular Unity Candidature, but, benevolent Pains, let me publicly thank you because without the involvement of the UPC I am convinced that it would not be possible to start the change that the country needs. With the agreement with the Popular Unity Candidacy we lay the first stone of the new Republican Generality, a generality that wants to be the government of the shared struggles, the government that is its own and wants to advance from the great consensus that moves the Catalan society. But this is just the first stone. That's why today I'm back to the rest of the formations with whom we share the objectives of facing with all strength and without further delay the social emergencies, the economic reconstruction of the country and the resolution of the conflict with the State. Especially to Junts, but also to En Comú Podemos, to whom I hope to convince at the length of the day today in the march of this investiture debate. It won't be easy, I know, but I think what I've explained so far, and above all what I'm going to explain, when we detail the priorities and commitments of the government that I want to lead, with all the materials that I care about, can be taken over by all sides if it really willed to agree, if it really willed to agree. I'm convinced that there is, this will, now I just need to find it. We all need to get out of our comfort zone. And when you say all about the Republican Left of Catalonia. And I'm also referring to myself. It is important to do so if we want to push for a plural and diverse coalition government as the citizens of Catalonia have done by putting their vote to the vote. He won't stay for us. We leave the comfort zone because we are aware of the transcendental moment that we live as society, that we live as the country. In the next few years, and I'd say in the next few months, we're playing the future of our own generations. That is why we are taking a step forward, because of the need to govern and overcome this moment of crisis, and above all to push forward the change and transformation that Catalonia needs. We need to lay the foundations for the economic and social reconstruction of the country, we need to move from the repression phase to the resolution of the conflict. And that means that we have to be able to build and move forward from great consensus. That is why I will devote all my efforts and energies to these great agreements, from the firmness of my convictions and with high doses of empathy. I'll do it. And I will do so by seeking the complicity of all, as well as of those who legitimately decide to stay at the opposition that we share proposals and objectives. I will, I will not fail to insist, because I really believe that building agreements is good for the country, because we are a nation and we are a people. In fact, I think we all need to be able to avoid diaries of deaf people who don't bring anything, who don't bring us anywhere. We're talking ideas, we're talking points of view, we're dealing with everything, and we're dealing with all energy, but we're always doing this with constructive will, from the complicity of those who share the same basic idea of a country. Let's get rid of the deaf dialect, rewrite the script, talk, listen, rehearse. If we opt for the convenience of maximalism, we must be aware that we only contribute to the blockade of the country. And I think it's time for Catalonia to move forward again; it's time to open a new stage where we move on from the great consensus, the shared struggles. If we do it together, we have a lot more strength. The proposal to build a new republican generality with an unequivocally progressive and left-wing vision, motivated by the constant search for innovation and transformation, with the vocation of public service between cells and cells, that you always seek participatory and transparent governance, that you have a distributed and honest leadership, that you think in large and that you help us to regain confidence in the future, and that you have an undisputable compromise with the Catalan Republic. These are the basic principles of a new Republican Generality, which must be a government alongside people, radically feminist, ecological and democratic. We must be disruptive, imaginative, innovative, breaking through with continuity, designing a government that stands for a new, modern structure, adapted to the current challenges, that is strengthened from cooperation and teamwork and that is present within the territory. And we need to be a government that communicates everything, with the utmost agility and clarity, to reach everyone, from nearness, to generate trust and security. When I say that we have to get to everyone, I mean the whole country, every single one of its citizens. In recent years the economic, political and social situation has caused a part of the citizenry to be disaffected by respect for the Catalan institutions. It has been in other democracies, but in our house it has made its own peculiarities. Trust and recognition need to be reassembled. I want to rule for everyone, no matter how you think and how you feel. I want rights for everyone. I want to be the president of all Catalans and all Catalans. We must also be a government that does not think of the short term, that governments with a vision of the future. And that means that it will be up to us to make difficult decisions, some of which will not produce an immediate result, but without doubt the best decisions for the future of the country. I want a modern, advanced government that is on the people's side; a government that takes away the mere technocratic management and the populist emptiness; a government of transformation that returns the demand to politics, that touches from a few to the ground, taking ambitious and long-sighted commitments, that can be evaluated periodically; a government that does not have any accountability, because this is the best way to move forward and progress: to evaluate and act with the utmost transparency. As a result, as it is public, I commit myself to subtly 'but a question of confidence to the half of the legislature to evaluate us, to renew the agreements and to strengthen the government's stability. The goal is, in short, to change insecurities, to break through with this has always been done, to build again, to start a stage of profound transformation of the country since the minute or legislature. This is why we set ourselves the objective of responding to the crisis that we have ahead of us with four transformations: socio-economic transformation, the feminist, the green and the democratic. These are the four axes from which we structure the commitments of my government proposal; the four axes with which I want to respond to the priorities of the government that I have marked since the beginning: the social emergence that we have as a country, the transformation of the production model and the resolution of the conflict with the State. I want to do a lot of work, it is an open, permeable proposal, which hopes that the contributions made by the Members and the Members will make it possible to reach an agreement, as we have known with the People's Unity Candidacy and as I am convinced that we will be able to do with many of you with whom we share diagnostics, objectives and priorities. We discuss proposals, we discuss quotas, we come to an agreement and we make it public together. If he volunteered, we're on time. You're the same now. That's why I'm going to tell you my point of view about the commitments the government has to make that I want to lead. I am beginning with the social and economic proposal, which will be in which I have extended more for the size of the nature of the crisis that we are facing, which wants to face the social emergence and prevent a turnout from the crisis into a transformative clau. The first step is clear and unstoppable. We need to push without delay a social rescue plan that guarantees that this crisis will not be paid for, once more, the most vulnerable; a social rescue plan that ensures that we do not get out of this crisis more unequally. From the first hundred days of government, we will mobilise €700_million to deal with the social emergency we are experiencing with the country; €700_million to encourage young people to contract, to hire 40-year-olds and vulnerable people; €700_million to rescue families, to deal with extreme poverty and senselessness; €700_million to be used to reduce the waiting lists for dependency programmes. From the first hundred days of government, we will boost the social rescue plan and, on its side, we will continue to deploy aid to accompany the autonomous and small and medium-sized enterprises most affected by the economic effects of the pandemic and by the restrictions adopted, as we did during the past year and also..., and especially with great intensity, during the first quarter of 2021. While the pandemic situation lasts, quarterly we go providing help packages with social workers in the social dialogue framework. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the Generality has made an effort to place more than 2,835_million in the service of the product fabric. We have made an effort – but often alone – and we will continue to do so to save businesses and to save jobs. At the same time, all social rescue, if it wants to be ambition, must have dimensions that until now have been minor and that we must face without delay. And here it is evident that, immediately, we need to develop an integral plan for mental and emotional salvation. It's essential, because, when we talk about rebuilding life after the pandemic, we're also talking about overcoming all the emotional shock caused by the cove and the crises that have come from it. We will begin by prioritizing the youngest; we will start by prioritizing the adolescent population, because the emotional shock that has caused the pandemic at a stage as dynamic, as vital, as the first years of youth is enormous and unbearable. These are the master lines of how we deal with social emergence, but I want to go more there to give answers, beyond the daily emergencies, which are many, many, I want to go more there with a government willing to start transforming the country. And today, without any doubt, "transformation means making a clear and determined bet for public services. Then I'll refer, too, to the transformation of the product model. If we want to rebuild the country into a transformative key, if we really want to push for a plan of reconstruction and transformation, it is obvious and basic to strengthen the welfare state, strengthen the entire public sector. If one thing we have after the pandemic is that when all the thunder is more essential the collective force of the public services: of the health system, of the education system, of the social protection system; the collective force that reaches everyone, comes from where, all the days of the year, twenty-four hours a day. We can talk about the education system. We are prepared to give this momentum and face with ambition and determination the challenges that education has in our country, through a clear and firm bet for educational equity. That's why we bet to make the stage from zero to three years free and universal, because it's one of the best ways to work for equal opportunities. This is why we are betting on the full digitization of the education system with the Digital Education Platform, which does not only need to ensure connectivity, but also to promote training, skills and new ways of learning through technology. We will continue to improve educational equipment, empowering the school model and the recovery of rural schools. The school stage is where we must begin to reduce existing inequalities. This is why we remain committed to the implementation of the Pact against School Segregation promoted by the Greuges Synod. It is necessary to follow a space of inter-discipline work from school with all public health services, too, and with social services, because it must enable us to bring the welfare state to hundreds of thousands of families who have confidence in it for the education of their children. We need to make a determined commitment to public education in this country, reducing the number of students and stabilising the seedlings of teachers, so as to provide better education. And continue to open the doors of the public title network to those concerted school centres which, in an agreed manner, decide to integrate there, always after the visit of a single educational, public, universal and equitable service. And we can say the same about the health system. It is necessary to defend and update the public system of universal salvation. There are three areas where we need to focus our action: care – in primary care centres, hospitals and specialty services –; public health from a community perspective, and research, to put science at the service of life and at the service of equity. Our system of salvation, beyond the current situation before the Covid-19, faces very important challenges of the future: the progressive enveloping of the population, the impact of social inequalities on health and the possibilities offered by medical, scientific and technological innovation. We will only be able to live up to the challenges if we also look at the professional and the financing of salvation. This must be a priority for the legislature. It is necessary to stabilise the workforce and improve working conditions; improve career plans and facilitate the return of trained health personnel to Catalonia, but who are working abroad. And that requires an alliance to reverse the chronic infra-financing that prevents us from giving a better service to the citizenry. We carry too much time with the feeling that we are only putting pieces; we carry too much time with a system that supported itself based, above all, on the compromise and vocation of its professionals. Calen structural changes, starting with a just financing that ensures a public system of excellence in which the primary attention reaches 25_percent of the assumption. In order to finance these changes, it is essential, as I said, an increase in the meaning of the health premise. They know, however, that they can't do it alone. The professional colleges in the health field have calculated in 5,000_million euros additional the last approved assumption..., the euros, the resources that are needed to improve the financing. We agree, and we want to demand that the State, which is the one that recapitulates the total practice of the taxes we pay in Catalonia, these resources. And that's not a chimera. In the past year, more than 2,000_million euros – of the total number of arrivals in Catalonia – have been injected into the Covid Foundation's framework – into the health system in order to cope with the emergency. Now it's time to consolidate them, too, once you get over the covid-19. As a first step, consolidate these 2,000_millions – as a first step; and we can do it now, this year and it can be done for everyone – to reach the increase of 5,000_millions of euros that the professional organizations in the health field plant in it. We also have room for governance and management of the system. There are services that can be quickly internalized so as to improve its management and integration within the public system, both auxiliary services as well as system-relevant services, as well as certain services that can be managed from the direct scope of the Government of Catalonia. We have done this with the Hospital of Berga, through the creation of Salut Catalunya Central, or with the hospitals of Reus and Móra d'Ebre, always prioritizing the quality and working conditions of the professionals, who are two loved by the same coin. Meths and midwives, nurses and teachers, nursing assistants, educational techniques, and many other professional profiles, guarantee of future and well-being. Surely, at the social level, they are the great adventures that we have conquered as society at the far end of the century: the education system and the public health system free and universal. And these three we have to preserve, we have to push them, and we have to make them excel, because without them we would be a much poorer and more unjust society. The strengthening of the welfare of public services goes hand in hand here, but now it also goes on to revalue the whole social welfare system and the whole system of cures. Because a country that esteems its people, that esteems its citizenship and seeks for its happiness is a country that seeks for the well-being of all, at all stages of life, that ensures social cohesion and that leaves no one behind. Two reflections on the cures: in the first place, historically they have been undervalued in the capitalist economic system. In this system everything that doesn't manage the market, everything that doesn't have a price seems to have no value. But an economist, Karl Marx, warned us that price and value are not the same. Cal, then, revalue the cures. And this goes on to address how to central care services to the great people, to childhood, to people with disabilities. And revaluing it also means continuing to move forward – as has been done with the increase in tariffs and with the better of the appropriate collection – in an increase in the working conditions and wages of the healers. Second reflection on the cures: according to the population projections of the Idescat, in 2031, 22.7_percent of the Catalan population will be greater than sixty-five years; now it is 18.9_percent. And this trend will continue to grow in its own decades. The aging of the population, a third active age and the cures must focus our efforts. This is one of the great lessons of this pandemic. And it will be necessary to establish the service network for the people of our country, both by promoting services managed directly for the Administration, assuming all the compromise, as well as ensuring a stable financing for those services that are provided by other administrations, from the social economy, from the third sector, with no desire for work and with social compromise. You need to move from a grant-based system and help with concertation and stability, because the services that provide this whole network cannot live in instability. That is why, to a good extent, we need a new social contract. We need to make a new commitment like society about who they are or should be the rights we all have to enjoy the same freedom. And here we have to be clear. What do I mean by a new social contract? So that no one is deprived of access; that no one is deprived of habitat; that no one is deprived of basic elements such as water, energy or connectivity; that everyone has a minimum amount of income to live with dignity, to have a good daily life, which I think is in a good part that the vast majority of citizens aspire to: to have something more than a dignified life, to have a good quality of life. In this sense, he wanted to refer to the need for housing policies, which focus on the legislative and budgetary agenda. With immediate character, it is essential to avoid, for the sake of levitatement, the denunciations of vulnerable families; to work for housing alternatives, and to guarantee, through the return policies and the dynamism of the labour market, the resources so that no one loses their habitation. It is necessary to tackle with greater force, as has already been the case in the later legislature, the control of the prices of the loguers, through legislative actions, but at the expense of an offer of housing with social protection, a sufficient offer, which has an impact on the prices of the market. For this reason, we have to mark ourselves as aiming to achieve the 1,000_million of euros in assumptions for housing policies in this legislature, in order to lay the groundwork for decisive progress towards this goal of the 15_percent of housing destined for social policies in a term of twenty years, the best collectible assets that can reach the next generation. When we talk about the right to housing, the fight against the poor energy or the digital exclusion, we are talking, in short, about the return and entry policies of the lars. Continue to complement with housing support the guaranteed income of Ciutadania. And we can do it this same year, but we don't have to stay here. We need to be innovative. As we face rigour, methodology and ambition the debate on universal basic income. For this reason, we have granted with the Popular Unity Candidacy, together with a great many other measures that I have been explaining and others that for a very limited period of time I will have to explain further..., we have granted a pilot plan on basic income that will allow us to bring the elements to a debate and ambition on this issue. Innovative initiatives are emerging from the world in this sense and we also need to make our bet and our proposal. This is a good starting point for the new social contract and I am sure that we can complement it with other objectives, such as that no one is excluded from access to the digital field or that everyone has a new distribution of time that contributes to reconciliation, to salvation, to productivity; in short, to make life easier and happier. This new social contract has to come to fruition. Also the model of care for children, young guardians and extolls, and measures for the social protection and guarantee of the rights of migrants. In this context, I also want to make a reference to public safety. In the later years, setbacks to our system of security and risk management and emergencies have increased markedly. That's why I think it's opportune to address again how we can improve the model of democratic police we have with the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad It is from the perspective of human security that the contents and documents of the United Nations bring to us, from the recognition and defense of the necessary professionalism of all public servants and also from the constant will of the better. I think we have the opportunity to do so in the right place, with great consensus and constructive vision. With this ambition and with all our unconformism, we are ready to make Catalonia a country of reference for social progress policies. Because every single one of the policies that we push, in the capdavall, are aimed at making the citizenry look better. For this reason, I want to develop a shared agenda of Catalan prosperity, to make life easier for the citizenry and to help bring up to date the idea of progress that shares a good part of the European and international left, an idea of progress that, as Joseph Stiglitz constantly reminds us, is aimed at building a country where the real wealth is measured by its ability to provide in a sustainable way a high level of life for all its citizens. I think they can do it and I think it's urgent to do it. We are used to seeing that this ambition that we have in our country's social policies is often hampered by absurd competitive conflicts; some, this very week with a constitutional court that by system has fallen right that this Parliament had recognized the citizen and the citizens of Catalonia. And we can talk about the law against poor energy, the law of housing emergency, the law of the tax on bank deposits. We know that there is this risk, but this cannot stop our ambition to make progress in the country and to improve the lives of the Catalan and Catalan communities. That's why I'm independent, too. Because it would be a lot easier to push this idea of progress with the tools of a state or at least without a state that you played against. But, despite everything, it is possible and necessary to start pushing this agenda of prosperity. And in this sense we must face – and within the economic space – this socio-economic transformation with a new product model that is more resilient, more forthcoming, more innovative and work place generator; and work places that are of quality. We cannot come out of future crises based on the reduction of wages and working conditions, only on the basis of innovation, exports and quality work, on the basis of talent, which we have in this country, and we have a lot of. A first step is to advance in that idea of the entrepreneurial state as the key actor of innovation and economic development. How many times has the economist Mariana Mazzucato written and taught us. And here it is essential to complete the transformation of the Catalan Institute of Finance as a public bank that acts as an authentic engine of enterprise and transformation. We've come a long way because that's what I'm saying, and I'm convinced that this legislature is going to get us through it, along with an investment fund for the public sector-led revival. We have the Catalan Institute of Finance and Advance as the basis for achieving this. Acting as an entrepreneur requires tools and resources, but there is also a part of attitude, of willingness; a very important part of attitude. And here I won't get tired of defending that a change of attitude is of vital importance if we want to get out and we want to get out well. In the first place, we must replace the culture of mistrust in the economic sphere with the culture of collaboration. Administrations must have an entrepreneurial vision and help to promote strategic projects for the country, and, at the same time, any project seeking the complicity of public administrations must be based on an unequivocal social responsibility. And if we can put into value the entrepreneurial vision of the Administration and the social responsibility of economic projects, of business projects, of social initiative projects, if we collaborate, if we cooperate on these principles, the result has a multiplier effect. In the second place, Catalonia has to start thinking big. We are an economically small country, such as Denmark or Finland itself, for which the only way to have an impact on the world is to think big, it is to make it big, if I may serve this expression, because we have neither cheap energy sources nor reserves of raw materials nor large infrastructures. Therefore, we can only be competitive if we are in human capital; in added value; in quality of work; in intangibles, as are our values; in trust among ourselves; in capacity for collaboration and coordination; in efficiency. Only by example, the half of Catalonia's exports the two-hundred-business fan. They are large companies with a volume of mid-term exports of more than EUR 50 million. That is to say, businesses with the capacity to export with sufficient strength and volume to Catalonia are few, and if we compare it to the total number of companies exporting, a 1,2_per_cent, two-hundreds of export firms, and still less if we compare it to the total number of companies in Catalonia: two-hundreds that concentrate 50_per_cent of exports before 500,000 companies in Catalonia with all their diversity, from the autonomies to the commercial societies passing through the social economy. Therefore, we must encourage cooperation and business collaboration so as to take the necessary muscle to continue growing face-to-face, and the government's business policies must go to strengthen and encourage this path. Thirdly, we must move from the volume economy to the value economy. The economy of the volume seeks short-term returns without thinking about the consequences in the medium or long term. The current patterns of consumption know that they cannot be maintained. Business models used in volume consumption, and which often do not incorporate the cost of the negative externalities they generate, need to evolve with models focused on the value they offer; from volume to value. We have great potential in all the productive sectors to strengthen this transformation. To set an example, the agri-food sector in its entire value chain. At the same time, we have to lead an active search for productive investments, generation of start-ups, taking advantage of the great actions we have. Today we're competing in the global market, and if we don't go out into the world to explain and get some more projects, they'll do it on our own accounts. And finally, we have to make a clear bet for gender equality also in business and economics. A question of justice, of rights, but above all of opportunities. It's one of the values that we need to define as society. But, at the same time, we need to be able to take advantage of and claim that when institutions, organisations and, in general, any group of people are in a low level of equality, collective intelligence is enriched, better decisions are taken and human groups establish better interpersonal relationships. These characteristics are desirable for any organization, especially in times of crisis or uncertainty, where male stereotyped leaders full of infallibility, self-centeredness and wisdom are more pernicious than ever. I want to promote an agenda of prosperity, and we will do so by taking these principles into account and making Catalonia a country... and we want it to be a state, of entrepreneurs. And, to do so, today we have a unique opportunity that we cannot lose. We need to know how to take advantage of the extraordinary potential of the European foundations Next Generation to drive the transformation that our production system needs. And not because it's not a very good product model, just to take advantage of its full potential, to make it more resilient, more sustainable and adapt it to the needs and challenges of the advanced and cohesive modern society we want to be. The objective is nothing more than to reactivate the country by driving strategic sectors of the future, sectors that have more capacity to generate quality occupation, added value and prosperity for the city as a whole, which have more capacity to vertebrate and to cohesive the territory, those sectors with leadership capacity and with the capacity to stop the rest of the country's productive economy. And we are talking about economics for life, so as to provide the citizens with health, cures, food, social protection, housing and culture. We are talking about digitization, about the economy for life, about the digitization of all areas of society, about the whole economic and productive structure, about the digitalization of the Administration, which must be the lever for the transformation of the Administration, and also about the digitization of social and community initiative projects, which pushes a digital transition every time more essential and which must come to an end, regardless of the regions where it is visible and independent of the social class to which a member belongs. We're talking about economic transition, economics for life, digitization, economic transition. We want to turn Catalonia into a leader country in the green economy in Europe and the Mediterranean, which faces the model, the energy model change and the effects on how we produce, how we distribute, how we consume our society. And we're talking about the knowledge society. Economy for life, digitization, green transition, knowledge society. Because if we don't want to be competitive only on low wages, we need to be in innovation, research and patent – and patent. These are the main productive sectors that will benefit from the extraordinary investment that European foundations suppose, which will particularly nurture small and medium-sized enterprises and the social economy. That's why we'll create the Next Generation commission, to get the maximum transformative yield from European foundations. All these are strategic stakes that the government must know how to accompany, it must know how to empower. And this follow-up goes, for example, to recover a department of Universities and Research, to take advantage of all the potential we have in many disciplines today, starting, for example, across the whole field of biomedical research. We must bet unequivocally on research – yes, unequivocally and indisputably – and also on technology transfer and innovation. We have a good level of scientific articles published in international reference journals based on our population. Now we have to do it as a patent. We have a lot of room for improvement. And this means adding to the strength of the university world, the research world and the business world, the economic world, the workers and the workers, and the professional formation, because the vast majority of the reptes are shared. And a change that can't take longer is to transform a professional formation that is already very good today, but in the background we have the need to prestige so that it is seen and perceived as a great training option. We have a country where a large part of the population has higher education and another part has basic education. This watch of suspense for prosperity and equity, for economic and social progress, is a problem. We need to change this figure to a hexagon. There must be a much larger number of qualified professionals, and that's key to the country's progress. That is why it is important and urgent to promote the professional training of all the agents involved. With this visit, I also propose a new national pact for industry, coordinated with the Next Generation funds. We must allow ourselves to anticipate the changes that decarbonization, that robotics, that digitization is held in the way we produce, how it is distributed and how it is consumed. The case of Nissan or Bosch, at the Lliçà d'Amunt plant, among others, oblige us more than ever to act immediately, but also to keep the stakes of the future clear. And we will continue to work together, but also defending social responsibility and with the country of all projects where the new government participates. The car industry or the car industry and the food industry can cope with great transformations; we have enough activity in the country to be able to do so. The food sector is one of the country's major growth vectors for the future and must bet decisively, because the value chain of the food sector is linked, from the primary sector – pages, pages, ramaders and ramaders, fishers and fishermen – links the processing industry, links the regadius projects – water use, water rational use – links the distribution of proximity, innovation, exportation, gastronomy, territorial and environmental balance and the country brand. Think big: they can be a power in the food industry. Let's think big and bet on it. There is also a bet for business models that go beyond traditional figures and that will allow us to increase our efforts and grow in size of projects. Here the cooperativeism and the conjunction of the social economy offer us a very good way forward. That is why we need to push forward the pact for the economy of life, and a determined commitment to the proximity trade, which confronts the challenges of the changes in distribution caused by online commerce plataforms. And we need to get down there, because every day we're late is a day we lose. The European foundations, as he pointed out, must also serve us to promote the ecological transition, and to do so in a fair manner. It is a reversal without precedents that cannot be ignored; without pal·liatius. It would be unforgivable for us not to take advantage of European funds to make the energy transition; it would be catastrophic, for climate change, for the preservation of biodiversity and, in the fund, for the younger generations of this country. That is why we will create a climate council, and that is why it is necessary to make possible, as is the case, the national pact for the ecological transition. Because this is also a crisis that we've been tolerating for too long, and it's come to a limit situation that demands we don't waste the last opportunity we have. We want to reach an agreement with civil society, businesses, trade unions and citizens in general, to reach the 100_per_cent of renewable energy by 2050. This must be the main objective of the national pact for the ecological transition; a pact that must serve us to move from the centralized and concentrated model in large corporations to a suitable model, decentralised and also competitive; a bet for diversified investments that do not further turn the territory into denial, but protect landscape and nature, taking advantage of the potential of everything that we have already transformed. The local energy communities, on the side of a public energy company that we will create, are a good tool, and must come to a great national agreement that draws the map of implementation of the country's wind and photovoltaic energy projects, where it is agreed with the municipalities and with the comarques, followed by the fact that it allows us to speak at the same time of economic transition and of shared prosperity and preservation of the territory. In the same way, we must continue to work on the sustainable development goals of the United Nations 2030 Agenda. Objects that can be converted into measurable and evaluable tapes, which is the way to move from rhetoric to reality. Some facts to measure our progress as a society towards a more humane, fairer, more ethical, more sustainable and resilient development. All this is essential if we want to make the ecological transition, if we want to place all our commitment to the fight against climate change and how we relate to the environment at the centre of political action. And all this also forces us to rethink our rural agenda and our urban agenda. Here, like the country, we have the challenge and the duty to break with that idea, with that concept of "territories, like all that is not Barcelona or is not the metropolitan area; to break with the old idea that the territory is a homogeneous whole, when it is obvious that the needs of the Village, Miralcamp, Torello or Llança are not the same; nor are they of Manresa, Vilanova, Mataró or Tremp. We have the repte and the duty to stop looking at Barcelona as a skewed capital to the rest of the country, and we have the repte and the duty to build a model of communication, of mobility, transversal, that broke with the idea of a radial model. Today we're more interconnected than ever. Today the space-time logic that has historically determined the administrative divisions, in a sense, has disappeared, and with teletreball it will do even more. If the geographer Pau Vila today returned to draw the regional map of Catalonia would be very different. For all this, as we go through this old scheme and come to understand the country as a whole, with all its diversity and plurality, with an urban agenda and with a fully interrelated rural agenda with the objective of being able to offer the same quality of life to the whole country, with independence from the region, the people, the city or the barrio where it is visible. We are talking, therefore, about southern Catalonia, which generates nine centres of collective life breaking the concept of 'urban periphery'. What is more read, "the urban periphery, as if the lives of certain people were seen to be peripheral. Therefore, we must break with this concept. And, therefore, we need to bet more on renewal programs for barrels, polygons and urbanisations, through a new law of territories. Catalonia feels that it has to face a pact with mountain communities to improve communications, connectivity and services. Southern Catalonia is also defending biodiversity and natural spaces of value, not only of value to the country, but also of reference in the continental sphere. We defend the Ebre Delta, we defend the Delta. We commit ourselves to specific measures and demand from the State a new sediment management to defend morphology, to defend the image of the Delta as we now have it and to ensure the continuity of the natural space, as well as social and economic activities, always with respect to existing biodiversity. All this requires an integral perspective that acts in such diverse areas with a view of territories, with a global view; in such diverse areas as clock reform, conciliation, teletreball, digitalization, mobility, urbanism, housing and public services. We need to interconnect – if we want to talk about a policy of territories – all these perspectives, all policies, and do so through a country visit in its conjunction; of the arm with Catalan municipalism, which is dynamic, which is plural and which is compromised. Why do we imagine the quality of life that we would gain if from any of the cities in the metropolitan area we could reach the center of Barcelona with less than thirty minutes using public transport? Can we imagine the quality of life that we would gain and the opportunities that would open up if we could culminate in optical fiber and 5G technology reaching all the towns, towns and cities of the country? This is the way: to think about the country with all its diversity, which is also complex. You may know how to take advantage..., and this goes so far as to know how to take advantage of the fate that Barcelona supposes to have with the capital of the country. A metropolis that has become a global city, that projects us to the world, and puts us on the table. A global city visit that is not limited to the narrow municipal term of Barcelona, but to the whole metropolis. Barcelona always battling that needs the whole country, which is one of our great windows in the world, genuine, creative and innovative. An energy that we must preserve without renouncing our own personality, putting it and putting ourselves at the service of the citizenry; putting us at the side of the people. Not only by connecting or improving the bars of the metropolis, but also by reducing all the seams. They make real country transformative bets, especially in those often oblivious barrels, but they have all the potentialities, such as the barrels of the Navy, the Sagrera or the Besòs. And in the region of the metropolis – but in other municipal terms – the barrels of Llefià, Sant Cosme, Sant Ildefons..., barrels filled with dignity that must be recognized, that must accompany and that have an extraordinary potential; that must become new centralities. We have an obligation to move from inequality to equity. And they are reptiles that cannot be disconnected from the reptes de pays, because the government that I aspire to preside will be the government of the sentient country, of the sentient Catalonia. From Barcelona, from the cities, and from the smaller towns. Barcelona is a city full of diversity, with an unquestionable international attraction. A diversity of vision and cultures that makes us richer and stronger. It is a city full of talent and projects of all kinds: social, economic, cultural, social, sports... And now, let's also say: full of inequalities. Barcelona, which is and has always been a city of rights and freedoms, which is also a baton of the Catalans, a baton of all clams, wants to be republican capital, transformative capital and connected to the country of the hand of the whole country. Catalonia is full, with equal rights of all its citizens and citizens. And that leads me to talk about the transformation into a feminist key that we want to push. I have pointed this out at various points in this speech, which calls for a great deal of political action from a wide range of areas of this feminism that we need to incorporate. But I think it's good that we stop and put all the emphasis on the world. Starting a new stage goes inexorably to push all the jump we have to do like society to ensure the full equality of women and men. It is necessary to preach by example, obviously, so that they are a government one hundred_per_cent pariari. And it is not a simple aesthetic question; it is the way, as I said, to enrich the collective intelligence of the government and to make better decisions. It is a way to govern in a more representative way, yes, but above all to govern better. I want a joint government and we will create the women's council, which is obsessed with eradicating all forms of discrimination, which once again places the feminist agenda and the gender perspective at the centre of public policies. This means continuing with more force than ever the path started in the last assumptions to bring it the perspective of gender and thus place it in all policies and decisions. Because, the feminist, it's the great transformation. It is the political movement with the greatest capacity to transform life and society. And I will say this in plural: feminisms, because from the government we will have to obey all the changes in order to reverse to the maximum the oppressions that are given by the sun made of being woman, poor, racialized, young or great, trans or gypsy; so that in the daytime intersectorality, that is to attend to the needs of the citizenry taking into account the multiple oppressions that suffer and that aggravate discrimination. This is what we call intersectorality and which, paraphrased Maria Mercè Marçal, forces women to be no more than three, a thousand times rebellious. And we don't want them to follow. We want the government to be a thousand times useful in giving all the women in this country their dignity. To promote, for example, policies and measures of progress in order to put an end to the effects of the so-called'menstrual poverty'. Because today we don't just need to talk about the need to lower VAT to all menstrual hygiene products; today, the best way to guarantee menstrual equity is to ensure the freeness of the necessary hygiene products. And I honestly believe that this is a question of justice. And this measure perfectly exemplifies the feminist and intersecting look he gave, and his transformative ability, because when we talk about poor menstruals we are talking about all the gifts that must be sorted between menstrual products or foods. One_of_each_four to Europe. It's those silent inequalities. When we make policies about menstrual equity, we also assign the taboo around menstruation and, therefore, we are talking about coeducation in schools. Women also visible diseases such as endometriosis and, therefore, we are talking about a gender perspective in public health. We believe that menstrual products must be respectful to our planet and, therefore, we are also talking about fighting the climate change. When we talk about poor menstruals, we also need to talk about people who are menstruating and, therefore, also about the visibility of diversity and respect for all individuals. In short: feminist politics. This is just an example of all the way there is to go and we will travel with the conviction that it is an unstoppable change, despite the resistance of the old and not so old masculinism. It's an unstoppable change, and our duty is to accompany it and empower it, because we're out winning all of it, because you're out winning the joint venture of society. Fighting for equality and discrimination leads us also to a clear compromise with policies against lesbians, homophobia and transference and against all discriminations by reason of how you feel or how you feel. It may continue to work together with anti-racism and, among many other measures, with the development of the Law for equal treatment and non-discrimination. On the bright side, it's about emancipating us, being freer, and here I have no doubt that culture, together with education, is one of the main tools we have to empower citizenship. That's why the whole idea of progress, the whole idea of transformation, can't let go of culture. I used to give it to the hinterland when I had my own way of hearing the country. Culture and language are what help us to cohesion the political community we are, from plurality to diversity. Because culture does not cease to be a combination of values, beliefs, convictions, knowledge, artistic manifestations, traditions, life forms and paths of coexistence, through which we express our humanity, interpret our existence and develop ourselves as a society. And that's different, it's plural and it's endowed with great wealth. Culture, like the very birth, is alive. And culture, as all was born, as all language, makes people and as all people, culture and languages evolve. For this reason, catalanity has never ceased to move, adapting to our times, transforming itself into the entanglements of new people who enrich us and all to continue to exercise the basic social function of culture: Cohesioning society, building collective consciousness. This is the social function of Catalan language and culture, acting as the amalgam of our society, promoting social cohesion. And in order to achieve this, we need to revalue the català's activity as the language of finding and social ascent. For this reason, it is necessary to bet clearly on the model of linguistic immersion, to improve it even more in order to guarantee the social use of Catalan and also knowledge, apart from the Catalan language, the castle and the English language. For this reason, to take care of culture and the way to take care of it is to double its financing. At the length of the legislature, we have to manage to allocate 2_percent of the budget to culture. It won't be easy, but it's a strategic bet. It is a question of being able to have a culture of quality and universal access, which can go to the world expressing our way of living and seeing reality. The prestige and quality of our culture is what guarantees its continuity. The prestige and quality of our culture is the guarantee of its continuity, always incorporating new contributions. As the young poet, Juana Dolores Romero tells us: "Writing well is more revolutionary than writing in Catalan and she writes in Catalan. To write, create, interpret, paint, dance with quality, call resources. We need to harness resources and resources to develop strategic projects to precisely harness the full potential of cultural industries. And here, without delay, to boost an audiovisual hub to bring back the Catalan audiovisual industry to the fore, also bearing in mind that consumer poles have changed their trousers, because today the audiovisual world and the digital world, with all their transmedia language, generate spaces of sociability in which Catalan culture and language play and continue to play, must be present and must play a neural role in the construction of the shared political community, in the construction of the shared country, in the construction, reconstruction, always, of "Caltaunya, un_sol puble". And in this compromise there must also be the public media in Catalonia, starting with the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which must exercise its role of leadership and dynamism in the audiovisual production of the country. And it must also be done, this leadership and this dynamism, the world of sport, the federation, the schoolgirl, the professional who projects us to the world, the source of health and welfare and the tool of social cohesion, especially for young people and adolescents in our country and also for the great people. The objectives of the Government are clear, as I have been repeating: to promote reconstruction in all these areas that I have detailed and much more than, in order not to widen myself, I will leave for more to go forward and for my own debates. I told them about the socio-economic transformations, the ecological transformation and the feminist claus, the struggle to solve the emergencies and the inequalities. And finally, I will talk about the transformations that are needed to deal with the democratic crisis that we are experiencing; about this priority, which is the resolution of the conflict, how we need to start a new stage, how we need to overcome repression and start the stage of conflict resolution, how we need to start without further delay the stage of the solution based on amnesty and self-determination. To want amnesty and to want self-determination is not a waiver. It's working to win, because we want to win. And I'm convinced that's what we all want independents of this room. It has been so long since 1989, in which three Members Josep Lluís Carod-Rovira, Ángel Colom and Miquel Pueyo, current father in the head of Lleida, succeeded in obtaining that the Parliament of Catalonia is pronounced, for the first time, in favour of the right to self-determination and nothing has happened. No one's going to be shocked. Head of court ruled unconstitutional. No one went to prison to allow the debate. No one went to prison or was disqualified because the vote was produced, nor was anyone disqualified. And it didn't happen, because, in the eyes of the State, we were three, a totally harmless minority. They have spent more than thirty years and thanks to the constant and tireless work, thanks to the perseverance and compromise of those who embrace utopia to reality and thanks also to the inability of the State to hear that, like it or not, Catalonia is a nation, today independence is a majority. And that's why there's someone who's going to freak out when we say we want to self-determine. Independence today is a majority, and that is why it has been repressed. That's why we have President Puigdemont in exile or President Forcadell and Vice President Junqueras in prison, along with the rest of the companies and companies, government advisors and advisors or President Torra disqualified, because we're the majority, it's been repressed, and that's why we have President Torra disqualified. Companies and companies in prison and exile, leaders of social entities, companies and companies pending trial for the simple fact of working because the citizenry of Catalonia can freely decide its future policy. And this is a democratic anomaly. It breaks the repressive spiral, does not lift, does not solve anything, only causes pain, only blocks the conflict. I can return the political conflict to politics and I can do it urgently. You all know the Republican Left proposal to unlock this situation: a table of negotiations with the State, from government to government, where the existence of the political conflict is recognized, where all the proposals are discussed and discussed, also amnesty and self-determination, and where the results of this table, of this negotiation continue to be referendums for the citizens of Catalonia. It's true that the table started with little, the pandemic didn't help. And a long year of pre-election weather, either. But there's no excuse that we don't have more time to lose. You need to reactivate this trading space and you need to do it right away. You need to reactivate this trading space and do it without further delay. And I'd like to ask the State to come up with a proposal. And I understand the skepticism of some and the malaise because we know the State and the only thing we have is that it will be a very difficult negotiation. Probably the hardest negotiation ever made in history by the Generalitat de Catalunya. Because, in fact, never in history has the Government of the Government of Catalonia been willing to face a negotiation where the reference of self-determination is brought to the table of the Moncloa, at the heart of the Government of the State. That's why we have to face negotiations with the state recovering the strategic unit that made us so strong in the months ahead of October 2017. We have to face it by recovering all the complicity between institutions, civil society and citizens that made us unstoppable four years ago. And we have to face it by making all the strength and all the energy that brings us to have for the first time exceeded 50_percent of votes in favour of the Catalan Republic in some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. I want to go to this negotiation, not just representing a political movement, not representing just a government, and, if I may, even though today they are asking for confidence, not representing this Parliament as much. I want to go and represent the country. A negotiation process that we know won't resolve, one time it gets agitated, immediately the conflict. But you can't turn this complexity into an excuse to expand it over time and chronize it. That is why we equip ourselves with methodology, evaluate it and decide how to move forward in this Parliament. For this reason, I will convene a national agreement for amnesty and self-determination that brings together all political formations, institutions and entities that agree with a solution: the political conflict with the State is resolved with the freedom of prisoners and exiles and with a referendum to decide our future in freedom. No one has to make it because the citizenry decides freely. We can agree on procedures and forms. Let us agree among all as the deliberation that brings us to a vote that represents the sovereign will of the people of Catalonia. We can find ourselves in the repression or we can find ourselves in the solution. Voting is the solution. It is the solution that brings together those who defend the independence of Catalonia and those who do not legitimately defend it. We find ourselves in the democratic solution where we can all win and decide citizenship. I can't guarantee we'll get out of here. What I am clear is that the alternative is to continue locked and walking in a circle as it has so far, locked in a stage of repression of the State and of impotence. And my will is to regain leadership to move forward again. I can't guarantee we'll get out. But the one thing I assure you of is that I'll leave my hair there. I will devote all my efforts, all my energies, absolutely all of them. And if, despite all the efforts, despite all the energies, we do not get out of it, we will not fail and continue to build the alternatives that a majority of this Parliament is planning for the Catalan Republic, like when we are three Members, but above all, with the optimism of knowing that today we have eighty-two Members and Members for the freedom of prisoners and exiles and for the sake of the referendum, for amnesty and self-determination. I'm done. I have made a long presentation, with my analysis of where I think we are, so I would like to say that we need to push forward a new Republican Generality that has opened a new stage in the country. I have sought to explain myself with clarity and detail in order to get to know the political project I want to lead. A proposal that's not just a government project, it's a country project and a future project. I want to devote all my efforts to tackling the social and economic crisis caused by covid-19, to driving the transformation of our economic system and to resolving the conflict with the State. A new government's marching inn is urgent. The pandemic doesn't wait. The economic crisis does not wait. The repression hasn't stopped and it doesn't wait. The new government's marching inn is urgent. And the rep is capital. Today it is up to us to take a step forward and promote the sacking that the country needs. Commit us there. We commit ourselves to building a country that esteems its people and is fixed as a priority the happiness of the citizenry; in the words of Pasqual Maragall, a new, more disinhibited Catalonia, less sacred and less sacralizing, more tearing from the ground, and, there added, tearing from the ground to, as Miró said, jumping as far as possible with all the ambition. We have the responsibility of the generations that have preceded us, diverse, plural, but strugglers and creators of today's Catalonia. But we have the debt with the generations of tomorrow to whom we want to leave a arrival in the form of a free, fraternal and just country. For these reasons I ask you to vote in favour of my investiture as President of the Generalitat de Catalunya to be a President of everyone. Thank you very much. Good morning. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.7.0	Well, thank you very much. Once the candidate's intervention has been completed, we will proceed to a 15-minute suspension, to try to compensate for the delay we are carrying, and will resume the session at 13 hours. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] At 12:45! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.8.0	It's part of the session. In accordance with Rule 149 of the Rules of Procedure, a representative of each parliamentary group spoke after the candidate's intervention for 30 minutes. The candidate will be able to use the word as many times as I ask, without time limitation. When the candidate responds individually to one of the Members who have spoken, the candidate will have a right to a reply..., to a reply time equal to the one used by the candidate. If you have answered the replies, which will also be time-limited, the group may have a counter-replication of five minutes more. The vote, then, for the investiture of the President of the Generality, will be public, by cry, in accordance with Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. And, said that, has the word, first of all, Mr. Salvador Illa, president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.9.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr candidate, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the floor to explain the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance in this debate of investiture at the beginning of the thirtieth parliamentary term. Before anything else, however, I want my first words today to be of record to the victims of Cove-19, their families and friends, and to recognize all the professionals who have fought and continue to fight the pandemic during this long year. To all of them, we must convey our gratitude and that of all society for their work and their commitment in a year hard for everyone, but especially difficult for these public servants who have demonstrated, once more, to be at the height of the circumstances. At such a critical moment as we have experienced – and, let us remember, we are still living – we have become more clearly manifest than ever the importance of strong public servants, of a state of solid welfare, and I believe that a large part of the citizenry has been more aware than ever of the need for collaboration and coordination between institutions, which makes us move forward more quickly and better, and more aware, also, of the sterility of the logic of confrontation and blockade. It's a lesson that leaves us with the pandemic and that we have a lot to attend to. The pandemic, the major in a hundred years, has shaken our societies, has put our governance systems to the test, has made us rediscover the value of that public, has changed our daily habits and has accelerated changes and changes of foundations that will make our societies unrecognizable a few years ago. And it has triggered an unprecedented economic and social crisis, which has forced governments to take measures that are also unprecedented. We're at a difficult, complex and difficult time. This is the situation. And in Catalonia, I hear, we're not for what we're supposed to be. What has to happen because we are united to overcome the virus? What has to happen because we agree to strengthen our system of salvation? What has to happen, Mr Aragonès, why should we focus the country's energies on recovering our economy by re-leading, in terms of gross domestic product, the economy of Spain? Where do we come from, because we focus our efforts on harnessing the resources that Europe and Spain have at our disposal to transform our industry, modernise our tourism, digitalise our economy and make economic transformation effective? What else has to happen because Nissan's workers, Bosch's and so many other companies feel that their government thinks, first of all, about them, and puts all – all – the resources possible to keep their jobs? Isn't the transcendence of the moment enough for you, Mr. candidate, Mr. Aragones, to look at the workers and workers and the direction of SEAT and, with your presence, to see the support of the Government of Catalonia for the first PERTE that Spain presents in Europe? What else has to happen because the street traders of Barcelona, Girona, Tarragona, Lleida, Sabadell, Vilanova and Geltrú, Vic, after long periods with their trades closed and with the anxiety of not knowing when and how they can resume their activity, see that their government gives support to the democratic task of maintaining public order, security and coexistence in our country? Where do you think we have to arrive because people like Josep, from Torre Baró, who works with him and his partner in the night oci sector, see that his government – yes, yes, his government – has the highest priority that neither he nor anyone else stands? What new situation has to be given because third-sector entities, with 97,000 workers and workers, get the 200_million euros they need to meet the social needs of the covid-19 crisis? What else is going to happen, Mr. Aragonese, because we're going to what we're going to be for? Are you sure, Mr. Candidate, that to face this situation the best partner you can have is the CUP, the only support you can exhibit today and here? Is it the anti-systems that can guarantee the stability we need to generate wealth? Is that what you can offer the country today? Don't you think there's a change of course? Don't you think it's necessary to open a new time? Don't you think that instead of dividing us, we can face together the challenges we have? [[Greetings.]] I want to tell you, with all due respect, that your speech has been a deceptive one. It has been a comprehensive catalogue of what has not been done in two years of decay. It has been, if I may, a speech to the totality of the presidency of the Lords Puigdemont and Torra, and – I don't know if it is given – it is a speech to his presence in the government, where there were and there are still very high responsibilities. He doesn't offer us anything different than what we've seen these past few years in Catalonia. A speech, if you want, unfortunately predictable, as when you listen to an old song from which you already know predict the words that will come. A speech that repeats, as I said, the melody of the past decade, in which its predecessors have been eager to generate false expectations that have done nothing more than provoke disillusionment and disillusionment on the part of the country's citizens and the decay of the country's conjunction. I listened carefully: you, more than not presenting a plan of government, what you did during your intervention is chanting the election program of the CUP, the formation of which you are an ostatge and which with a 6_per_cent of the votes intend to mark the priorities of the 100_per_cent of the country and achieve that you are committed to a question of confidence in two years. What about this intellectual, political, moral and conceptual subtitling of the anti-system? Is it possible to further degrade the presidency of the Generalitat by kissing it for a question of confidence in the first half of 2023? With the utmost respect – that I have everything, I assure you – does he remember Artur Mas and the history paper? This legislature has not been touched, with this split and confrontational approach, with the same barricades between you and with the insistence on repeating a formula that has failed. The problem with the pact presented to us, Mr. candidate, is that it is a pact born of division, torn by division and destined for division. I explain: it was born of the division of independence, its failure in the previous legislature and the competition of three parties to lead or condition this political space. It is plagued by the division of those who make up it, without any prospect of loyalty or coherence among the partners. If it prospered, it would most likely be a government whose members would spend more time looking at the sides than looking at citizens' problems. And it's meant for division, because it insists on working with the interests of only half the Catalans in mind and without abandoning some methods that most of us reject. A division that will be greater the more you submit to the dictates of the anti-system and the further away from the tempered and dialogueal majority that exists in Catalan society. And let me, with all cordiality – with all cordiality – warn you: the problems of your own division are not solved with more division. When a project is unviable and divisive, the solution is not to insist obsessively on repeating it, but to have the honesty and courage to correct the course and to seek other more viable and inclusive majorities and projects; other projects that are socially claimed, politically plausible and arithmetically possible. The victory of the PSC on the 14th of February makes possible the configuration of a majority of lefts alternative to the continuity of an independent majority encapsulated in the logical frontist and decadent; it allows to open a new time to break with the logical loser of zero sum that examples each time more the great race that separates the two blocks that have been facing during the years in Catalonia. But you, Mr. candidate, chose and preferred to continue parapeting in your trench dress, an easy stance, because you do not need any effort, but the price that citizens pay for it is too much because: a stagnant, paralyzed Catalonia and the continuity of a strategy that only deepens the political, economic and social blockade of the country. He wants to repeat a falsity. Catalonia needs coexistence, not decadence; Catalonia needs competence, not independence. The policy requires dialogue and consensus; now, that's why we must stand up and be brave. Valentia, not radicality; it's different things. You, Mr. Aragones, have preferred to have travel companions who feel comfortable identifying the differences of those we don't think the same. He preferred those who pose at the side of those who provoke aldaruls and practice free violence in the streets of Barcelona and other cities of the country. You have sorted this out instead of standing next to those who defend the coexistence and security of the majority of the citizenry. You have all the right to do this sort of thing, but you will understand that I did not share this willingness to stand next to the supporters of the strategy of "as worse, better. To my parliamentary group we are more of the position of 'as better, better and firm supporters of the right to stability and the tranquillity of the citizenry; that Catalans are not permanently condemned to see and live politics as a problem or to feel hostile to those who live at times in the face, in instability, and practice irresponsible politics. You and your partner, Mr. candidate, continue to play the game of confrontation, as if Catalonia were your game, and pretend to continue to divide the Catalan society, pretend to continue to harm our economy, pretend to continue to harm our image and pretend to continue to break our expectations and spoil our social cohesion. Mr. Candidate, Catalonia needs to be stabilized, good government and able to negotiate and reach great consensus, more at such an exceptional time, as difficult as we are living. And its proposal, from our point of view at least, does not guarantee any kind of stability or certainly, no possibility of reaching great agreements and pacts, which is now more than ever what citizens demand and need. With all the respect that you deserve, I want to tell you that I am not optimistic about your ability to generate the jump before the country needs, the coverage that you need to do to put the frontist strategy back together and the anti-sofa system management that we've been accustomed to in the past years and that we haven't had anything but good, we haven't had a win. With this strategy, we lose opportunities and accumulate problems. Catalonia is a great country, and it has everything because things are good for it. This country has no ideas, no energy, no talent. In fact, in Catalonia we have – or better said, we have – the good habit of doing things right. Not only with respect to the laws, but with a certain ambition of excellence. This, unfortunately, remains far; far too far, after years of bad governance and division. And following more years in this drift only deepens in the decadence, paralysis and blockage in which we have been installed for a long time. You seem to be unaware of the gravity of the situation we are experiencing. You are disqualified from your responsibilities and are unable to take on the mistakes made in the past few years in Catalonia. They've left us a country that's exhausted, unscathed. Many citizens see their day to day with a certain feeling of asphyxiation. And yes, the anguish of many Catalans and Catalans was already coming from before the pandemic, Mr. Candidate. Because things in Catalonia have been a long time since they were supposed to be. We lost a decade at a time when the world was experiencing the great changes that would mark the future of our time. We need to lay the foundations for a search for the energy transition and for an industrial policy that will ensure tomorrow's work places. In Catalonia, while all this happened, we were still entangled in identity discussions, stars, and capphics in the flag war. In Catalonia, Mr. candidate, the independent governments of the past two years have reported more than 700_million euros in public investment in Education, leaving it at the lowest levels in Europe. In Catalonia, Mr. candidate, the Generalitat allocates 3.7_percent of GDP in Salut, while the Spanish medium is in 6.2_per_cent and that of the European Union is in 7.2_per_cent. In Catalonia, Mr. candidate, about 30_percent of infants are at risk of poverty. In Catalonia, Mr. candidate, the occupation and production of the Catalan industry has suffered a major slowdown than the Spanish medium. The Government allocates only 20 per cent of the budget allocated to industrial policies for this purpose in 2010. In Catalonia, Mr. candidate, we dedicate fewer resources to universities than in the year 2010. And that 70 percent of the research is generating the universities. We have the same research assumption we had in 2010. There was no increase. Catalonia, in our view, must once again be synonymous with openness, tolerance and success. Those of us who consider Catalonia do not resign to continue as yet and we will continue to struggle to achieve the leap forward to all the levels demanded by the citizenry, to build a solid alternative that the socialists offer to lead. That is why I believe that these must be the priorities of the Government of Catalonia. There are three, neither two nor four, three priorities: u, vence the virus; two, reactivate and transform our economy, and three, let no one go back. And a challenge: to open a new stage in Catalonia by passing pages of lost years to regain political and social consensus. Win the virus, first of all, by ensuring a vaccination in coordination with the rest of Spain and with Europe, with the aim, yes, of reaching 70_percent of citizens vaccinated this summer; giving support to those who lead the fight against the virus – and in particular, to the Secretary of Public Health, Josep Maria Argimon – and demanding caution from the citizen in the weeks ahead, we still have levels of cumulative concern. And strengthening our system of salvation, effectively. On the basis of the document prepared by the safety experts of thirty measures and seeking a horizon to increase the resources for public health by 5 million for five years, and also supporting the pharmaceutical and healthcare industry in Catalonia, which is also playing an important role in fighting for the virus. The second priority is to reactivate and transform the economy by expanding the productive base and quality occupation. I will need to be synthetic in deploying this object. In the short term, make a plan of work to save the maximum number of companies and protect the maximum number of places of work. And in the long run, they make the reforms that fall to our economy from various factors. For example, making a bet, first place, brave for talent, which means a decided bet for education, universities and research centers. Second place, betting on science, technology transfer, innovation; putting the focus on industrial policy. Thirdly, with a commitment to education and vocational training. Education, education and education; devoting 6_percent of gross domestic product to educational subjects, education and knowledge. In fourth place, working for a trilingual society; we cannot allow the knowledge of a third language to remain assets excluded from those with greater economic resources. Vertebrating, in five places, an infrastructure agenda for Catalonia that will cover all of our territories. The whole territory, not just a part. A connectivity that has to be, in the first place, internal, with adequate rail infrastructure and roads; also international, with an airport that is a real international hub of communications, and also digital, deploying in the next four years the 5G network throughout the Catalan territory. In six places, with a compromise with Barcelona and the metropolitan region – yes, because the Government of Catalonia has to have its own agenda for metropolitan Barcelona. It is necessary to enhance Barcelona and its brand at international level and to put it at the service of the whole country, and therefore to have a common agenda of infrastructures for the four_million Catalans and Catalans living in the metropolitan region of Barcelona. Barcelona is one of the best acts Catalonia has today. In seven places, working for an ecological transition with decent barrels and habitats. As Catalonia faces the challenge of the climate change that, moreover, offers us the opportunity to create new green jobs of high value in sectors such as rehabilitation, energy or the production of materials that are manufactured by companies in our country. And once again, a decent job. The dignity of work must be the cornerstone of any advanced society. And here let me make a special mention of young people's work. They suffered more intensely from the effects of the last economic crisis, and we cannot allow other times to be the main victims of this new economic crisis. There will be no future in Catalonia until we guarantee that the young can build a worthy future at home. [[Greetings.]] All these points that I have pointed out require security, legal confidence, certainly politics to generate, to attract, to retain, to promote us productive projects and reforms that we need for the social progress of the country. Actually, I know what I'm saying, the most radical thing that can be offered to Catalonia and Catalonia today is the stability and strength of a government. To offer this confidence, this legal certainty and this stability is essential if we are to make good use of, for example, European recovery funds. We play a lot with the EU Next Generation, we play a lot with the future, and it doesn't seem to me that you are... that you are a lot aware of this fact. And the third priority, social reconstruction, to make sure we don't let anyone get away with it. In the past few years, with you in the government, nothing has happened or, as a matter of fact, not enough has been done to reduce the inequalities in Catalonia. And we still have a different life expectancy depending on the postal code of where we were born or where we live. That is why I think it is important to focus on the country's social priorities. First of all, I refer to people in a situation of dependency. We need a definite boost to our model of care for the dependency of cures and residences. It can give priority to people... that people can live around them with the necessary services and supports, ending up with waiting lists for social and healthcare home care. Secondly, the security, yes, the security located in the framework of social policies, with an action that must be based on prevention and proximity. Catalans and Catalans need safe barrels, people and safe cities, because it is the guarantee of the exercise of freedoms and the rights of all and all in public space. The government should make a determined bet for security and coexistence, and this means – that is to say – put itself at the side of the Squadron Mosses, expanding its staff and making a bet for proximity and citizen security tasks accompanying local police. We must protect those who protect us, exactly the opposite of what you do to the CUP dictatorship. And in the cultural sphere, in no case do I conceive of culture as a weapon at the service of the confrontation between Catalans and Catalans. As well as giving support to the cultural industries, which are the driving force behind our economy and which have brought Catalonia out of the world. Finally, an administration to the civil service. The institutions must be at the service of the country and not the other way around. I could talk to you about a lot of other issues that concern me, but I don't have much time in half an hour to address: climate change, poor children and housing, and a cross-cutting one that we often don't have enough to take into account and that I don't want to mention in this intervention, the feminization of the poor. We have to do so because crises like this one that we are living do not involve a step backwards in the path to equality, which we have a long time ago, in which we have advanced, even though we still have a lot to do. And lastly, I also told him that, together with these three priorities, we have a challenge: to open a new stage in Catalonia with a good government; a new stage in which we will commit all of us – I do it here before this chamber – in the first place, to say the truth, not to deceive citizenship with false promises, not to generate false expectations; in the second place, to work to unite the Catalan society, not to divide it; in the third place, to hold institutional loyalty with the municipalities, in the first place, with supra-municipal entities, with the Spanish Government and with the European institutions, institutional loyalty, indispensable to face the challenges we have set. In fourth place, the mile and length finish in place of the immediate. It's important that tomorrow, but it's more important that it's going to come from here six months and from here six years depending on what we decide tomorrow. We live in a time of immediate prisoners, what we'll do in five minutes, and I think, Mr. Candidate, we must commit ourselves to looking in the middle and long term. In five places, respect, which I offer to you and to the whole chamber, to the whole country, and which I claim for myself too. We all deserve to be able to express ourselves, be able to defend our political positions in the cohabitation marque from which we have given ourselves some years ago, with respect for one another. In the same place, building and proposing in the place of destroying, affirming the same political space, explaining and developing a project more than not affirming it against a third – Spain, the Mossos, the judiciary or whatever. And, in seven places, worthy of the institutions, which are all of us. Without institutions, we cannot govern ourselves, nor, for those who aspire to more, do anything else. Dignifying the institutions that are all of us and that it was so hard for us to recover. If we look closely at the recent history of our country, we will see that we have always advanced from the hand of the dialect, from the negotiation and from the agreements. All these elements have made us stronger and stronger. We have never achieved anything, nor will we achieve anything from the tax or dividing the country. The new Government of the Generality should be able to regain consensus in Catalan politics, in order to achieve a more serious country, more united, able to put tensions back together. It will not be possible to begin to overcome the stage that we have experienced these past years in Catalonia until we are able to build and share consensus around the great policies and priorities of the country. This own government of the Generality should be able to advance, therefore, in harmony and regaining respect and recognition of others, eradicating at once the idea of good and evil Catalans. And I've been clogged. I have always aspired for a rich and full Catalonia, strong in its diversity, pioneer and vantage point. Since the Government of the Generality, there is much, much margin because of its management in a more secure, fairer and more early Catalonia. We have the tools to get it. Catalonia is a great country, with a great citizenship, with excellent businesses, with good professionals, with trained workers, with talent, with capacity, with a high level of self-government and with resources to make policies for the service of the country. We've got everything to get out of the way, to get out of the way. What you have offered us today, Mr. candidate, is not, in my opinion, a good formula for unveiling these potentialities that we have; it will not, in my view, allow us to move forward. Some citizens, listening to him, may be tempted to fall into resignation; they may think "we will remain the same, set to repeat a weakness. I want to address these citizens in a special way now, and I want to tell them that Catalonia, despite everything, will come forward. I want to assure them that the change to Catalonia is irreversible. I want to tell you that this country has always gone away and that this time it will also come back. I want to tell them more concretely that we're going to beat the virus. Rather, that we are already winning, working rapeseed with Spain and Europe to vaccinate our population, and that we will smooth out the 70_per_cent strip of vaccinated population this month of August. I want to say that our economy will transform, decarbonize and digitalize; it will come out as it has always done. And I want to tell her that we're working so no one's left behind. After that, we paid very dearly for the lesson of which I suppose to respond to an economic crisis with detailed and diminished public resources, as some, not so long ago, defended in this chamber. Take the lesson, let's spend more resources now than we'll ever let anyone go back and we'll follow it. It is true, at least on my criteria, that what you propose to us today does not help, interbank, does not awaken the energies that Catalonia has, encapsulates them and limits them, distorts, if I may. But it's temporary, it's short-term, and, believe me, it's passenger. The Catalonia of the next decade, I'm sure, can be that of the real equality between men and women, that of the policies that strengthen our health, our education and that give opportunities to young people. Catalonia's economic recovery and social welfare. The decade, the propera, of ecological policies that guarantee the ecological transition and we work places at our home. The Catalonia of the next decade can, I'm sure, be that of a cohesive country of the camp in the city, with digital and physical connectivity that allows to vertebrate towns and cities. And, above all, the Catalonia of the next decade, I'm not sure, will be the one of concord and retrobament. Cal, for the sake of everyone, let this country start a new political stage already. On a constructive basis, my parliamentary group will work on an alternative government project, which prioritizes the agreements and policies that Catalonia needs to boost economic recovery, job creation and social reconstruction of the country. The policies that the Catalan Socialists, like the most voted for by the Catalans and the Catalans, aspire to develop from the Government of the Generality when the time comes, if the citizens so want, naturally. We are the first party in Catalonia, we are the alternative and we will work because Catalonia has the future it deserves. [[Greetings.]] And I end up doing it very directly and personally, if I may, Mr. Candidate, a petition. Please apply seny, seriousness, tenacity, calmness, prudence, leiiness, humility and height of sight to your management if you end up being invested President of the Generality. If you really want to serve Catalonia and its citizens, for example, to make a pact for salvation, you will have us at your side. If he doesn't, as is our duty, he'll find us in front of him. The need for politics, so many times invoked, is nothing other than the express will to negotiate, to listen to the other without conditions, to be willing to accept our plans. We need one another to assume our responsibilities, each of them, to listen to each other, to respect each other, to respect our differences, to accept them and to live together as equals. My group will vote no to its nomination for the investiture. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause in a sector of the room.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.10.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Illa. To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.11.0	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government... Mr Illa, good morning. It is a pleasure to have this debate here in the framework of this Parliament, because I believe that what is close to us is to confront ideas, to confront proposals and that citizens can also judge what is our level of constructive proposal for which the country's future is. You have started talking about the pandemic, and it is certainly not just the one that has upset the lives, which has caused immense pain to Catalan society, but it has some economic and social effects, to which I have devoted a good part of my initial intervention, in my speech on inicianism, and, above all, of the proposals to be able to deal with it. I am very sorry that you want to persist in the dialogue of the deaf which is incompatible with the legitimate aspirations of national freedom, of the sovereign project of the country, with a view to a pandemic and with the need for economic and social reconstruction. I say it very clearly, with pandemic or without, I will not give up the independence of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] With pandemic or without, I will not give up the exercise of the right to self-determination or amnesty. The same way that, with pandemic or without, you don't have to give up what you believe in, in the unit of Spain, the relevance of Catalonia as an autonomous community in the Spanish State. I do not ask you that, in order to focus on the struggle against exclusions, on the struggle to achieve a more resilient economy and a more productive model that generates more prosperity, I do not ask you to give up what you believe in, your project respects the self-government of this country. And if I don't ask, you can't ask me. I won't give up. In fact, the independenceists along these two years, which you have described as decadence – which I will now enter –, the independenceists along these two years that we have done is to play it. There are people who are in prison because people who are against Catalonia's independence can vote than the U of October. Because when we defend a self-determination referendum, we defend this instrument because we can all vote on it: yes and no. And this is not divided; this is to provide solutions. Today, in these aspects, you have been placed as a political obstacle – with all the legitimacy, you can do so, but I see that, I have an obligation to see it – it is located as an obstacle before the current situation and not as a solution. I think you have to do the traffic; you have to do the traffic to get back the way you can be in the solution band. I'm not going into the deaf dialect. I believe that what this country needs is not to persist in a dynamic of confrontation, that you verbally said that you wanted to take it away, but that you were practicing it in this Faristol. I'm not gonna keep myself in this deaf dialect. I think that you had prepared a speech thinking that there would be no independent leftist, republican, democratic proposal here, that you also have the capacity to assume the country of future that we want to free and work for the daily life of the present. Because we, who want independence, do not want independence without a country. And as the country is its people, we want to fight every day because the people of this country are better off. You didn't listen to my speech. In fact, I think that if I could summarise in a concept, in one of the first concepts, its intervention, I would get the word 'incompatibility'. Because at the same time my speech cannot be, Mr. Illa, a message to the totality of the Puigdemont and Torra government and at the same time the absolute continuity of the Puigdemont and Torra governments, and I must say here that I feel proud to have formed part of the government of President Quim Torra. [[Greetings.]] Two things can't be now, either it's a whole thing or it's continuity – clarification's. You also mentioned the decline, the economic decline of a country that until the pandemic has been growing all these years. From the end of 2013, we started economic recovery, until 2020, until the beginning of 2020, we have been growing above the euro area average in all and every exercise – in all and every exercise. This for you must be decadence, the decadence of a country that these past few years, despite the pandemic situation that we found ourselves last year, all the years ahead and after has been able to reduce the turn of 20_per_cent– and it was not your responsibility, which presided over the Generality at that time, to reduce it to about 10, which went up to over 13_per_cent from the pandemic. So, decadence, no. By decadence, in any case, what I can represent as a political project, from my point of view – and with all due respect, which you have for me and which I have for you – I believe that it has gone out of sight and left many voices that defended that it was not incompatible to defend a Catalonia free with a socially just Catalonia. Luckily, some of these people have been welcomed to my political project. He talked about the convenience of the confrontation. I think that who is comfortable in the confrontation and I think that... I have to say, independence did not see in the comfort of the confrontation – independence did not see in the comfort of the confrontation. And, despite the fact that some MPs are fighting, do you think repression is a good thing? They think it's convenient that there are negotiators, for example, in the case of Junts for Catalonia, that we have to stop negotiating meetings because they have to return to Lledoners to sleep in prison? Do they think it's easy for us to talk through pants with our companions who are in exile because if they came here, they'd go to prison? In the face of a feeling that it is so unfair that even you and all of you have gone down to see that it would be good to correct it when some of you have gone insinuating possibilities of indult? The setback that you propose cannot be an oblivion, because we will never forget the companies and companies that are in prison, or the companies and companies that are in exile, which we have done because we can all vote, or the companies and companies that are pending causes in the march of this repression. The backlash is incompatible – it spoke of incompatibilities – with repression. He also spoke of drift, of the independentist drift, of the drift of a... Well, so miri, 14 of fever, election results: 52_per_cent of independentist vote. You can see that no, you can cover the eyes. And listen, look, there's a reality: with high participation or with low participation, most of them independentist in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I face reality. [[Perlongats applause.]] Does this mean that a political project is to be based on taxation? No, no, No, we do not want imposed independence, we do not want the Catalan Republic against the will of the citizenry. We want it based on free deliberation. When the 52_percent of the people who voted, a past February 14th, is clearly in favour of lists, of candidatures that defend Catalonia's independence, does this not give any thought to finding a solution to this political conflict? Doesn't it arouse any thought? For you, the concord represents oblivion of the one who voted 52_percent of the city of Catalonia? I don't want to forget, and I don't want to cover my eyes before the 48_per_cent that didn't vote independence, I won't. That's why I'm saying that I want to be the president of everyone, of all Catalans and of all Catalans, and also to fight in the issue of national conflict because everyone is able to express, and because those of no, if most of them are, can win in a reference to their position. We'll try, I'm not absolutely convinced. And I went to the proposals. He pointed out a whole series of shortcomings in the speech, which, in fact, was making a rest of all the proposals I made. I think it was hoped that you would find independence as you have always been caricaturizing, of what does not manage reality, of the independence that is covered by the eyes, when, today, independence is managing the vast majority, the vast majority of joints of this country; when independence is working in so many areas. Because we know that, in the same way that for you the unit of Spain is not incompatible with the defense of economic and social progress, for us the independence of Catalonia is neither. I shall therefore go into some proposals, some proposals that I think we need to put forward. For what it does to economic reconstruction, it is necessary to claim an industrial fabric that needs structural changes. These changes can't make them alone. Some changes we could make and decide from this room if we were a state. And I am talking, for example, about elements that are fading the competitiveness of our economic system, and especially in the industrial sphere. Energy pressure. The system of pricing based on regulations and regulations, which are not our competence but are the competence of the Government of the State, is clearly a factor against the competitiveness of our economy. A pricing system where political influence is decisive at the time of obtaining certain benefits. Because if I don't know how it is that the Council of Ministers has become the best school of future leaders of energy companies all over the world – it's very strange. [[Greetings.]] So, take some energy. Second place, financing costs. Costs financed in a context of very low types of interest, certainly, but costs financed. Why do we defend a public bank? Because at these times we are seeing how the government that you were part of is favoring until the election campaign began has been favoring a bank concentration that limits competitiveness in the field of financing. And we, for that reason, also believe that precisely to defend a concept so little, let us say it..., or, in fact, as close as some have imagined the capitalist economic system, such as competence, precisely to defend the competence of truth, we believe that there must be a public operator who acts in this field and that is why we defend the Catalan Institute of Finance. O infrastructure. It seems to me very well that I am in favour of 5G and connectivity in 5G, but then, in fairness, what they cannot do is boycott the actions to make the 5G motorway that the government of which I have had the honour to form part until today has been working, and you have been boycotting it in the area of European Union. And that's it – and that's it. You have attributed to me everything that has been the political trajectory of independent formations and independent governments so far. We could go in there, we could start taking a lot of things out of it, but I think that, in fair correspondence, you also have to assume what a government's decisions have been, not your party's, but a government of which you have been a party. He spoke of the need to help the economic and social sectors affected by the pandemic. I absolutely agree – absolutely agree. But then check with me that we've done every single one of them. He had to spend a year because, beyond the ERTO and the ICOs, which are very uplifting, and I won't drop a cent of the import..., he had to spend a year because he arbitrated from the state government direct aid to the economic sectors affected by the pandemic. If you look at the Spanish government's grant register, of all the autonomous communities, and who have been giving help and in what quantity, on the occasion of the pandemic, you will find that the one that has given you the most help quantitatively and per capita is the Government of Catalonia. That, in fact, it almost doubles – almost doubles – that which has been the second territory, that it is our brotherly territory, that it is the Valencian country, with whom precisely, with the Valencian country and with the Islands, we will work – and this is also a compromise of my Government –, we will work together in so many projects, not only for the language and culture we share, but also for the future, for the same economic space that we want strong, that we want to compete and that we want to do together. And I'm convinced we'll find each other. With dialect, with absolute respect for the dynamics and the sovereignty and decisions of each territory. I, for one, will do it. Finally, the social agenda. I think the social agenda we want to push... you have placed many priorities and many of them I can agree with. I only ask two questions: with what laws and with what resources. I want to hold them. The possibility of all laws and all resources. If you think that it is necessary to increase the health assumption by respecting the last approved assumption, because there has been the extraordinary support in time of pandemic, in 5,000_million euros; if we also have to increase what is the weight of education, of the education assumption, in GDP, of the 5,000_million euros that is now there and that for so long we are talking about a 2.3_percent of GDP, to 6_per_cent, this cannot be done with a financing model in which who collects resources is the Government of the State. They can't do it. So, they'll explain to us, and the only alternative, you know, is that we get all the resources, that we can get back from here and we can obviously decide where the resources that the citizens of Catalonia have to go. And it's over here, it's obvious. But he was also talking about the laws. Look: we're finding ourselves..., we've mentioned laws that go right and that we find ourselves as the government of the state brings it to the Constitutional Court, or sometimes the People's Party does, or Vox does, now have more than fifty deputies – unfortunately – to the Congress of Deputies. In the case of them it does not paralyze the execution, but in the case of the Spanish Government it does. And, therefore, I am not talking only about the areas of energy poverty, the content of the logger's prices. Certainly, a proposal from your government that will then prevent other governments from doing so when they do not do so. But, well, in any case, we all have contradictions. Deia Joan Fuster: "My contradictions are my hopes. I have many, many hopes... you must have infinite hopes, because the contradictions are extraordinary. [[Greetings.]] But: read – read. Two proposals for the law of this Parliament recently approved, presented for the Socialist Party, between other groups: the Proposition of the law of the APEU, of the areas of economic promotion, worked jointly with the Government, also, and where the councillor Tremosa got involved, before Constellera Chacón, and this is a proposal of the law that you also promoted. Or the Law Proposition, approved, about the forced disappearance of minors, driven by you, by Ciutadans, and that we approved the conjunction of the chamber. The deputy Miquel Iceta pushed them, signed the entry to the register of the proposal, voted them in the plenary, and the minister Miquel Iceta, who I believe is the same – person –, this very week obliges the Government of Catalonia to..., either enter into a negotiation or bring them to the Constitutional Court. [[Greetings.]] So, when you're in the Parliament of Catalonia, you put some laws on the table, and the same ones, and the same person, the same person, the door to the Constitutional Court with suspension of what you voted on. Therefore, we agree; we could agree, we could agree, you and I, that our problem, for your program and for mine, is the same: resources and legislative power. The solution to this? From my point of view – it's my point of view, I think sharing it with 52 percent of the voters on February 14th – is that to overcome this we need the tools of resources and laws, which are the tools of a state. Apart from all this, I believe that this legislature must be the legislature to overcome the dialogue of the deaf and that we can build with opposition some spaces of dialogue and finding. Yeah, but they're asking for two things. First of all, it must be honest work – I am convinced that it will be so, that proposals will be made, that it will be built. We have some proposals that we agree on, we have a first agreement that we have made with the Popular Unity Candidate, and I would like to..., I think that with all the democratic formations of this chamber, with all the formations that defend perhaps an ideology that you do not like, and I am not in the 100_per_cent of agreement because, if not, I would not be from the Republican Left, I would be from the CUP, and I obviously don't know, but I think that everyone deserves a respect. And many times we have heard that it is qualified as an anti-system and perhaps what is more anti-system are the inequalities that we are having, what is more anti-system is that today there are many generations that only have precariousness for the future. [[Greetings.]] That's what's anti-system. Therefore, we have reached an agreement. We'll honor the chord and complete it. And I'll thank him again. And that's why I've subtended myself to this Parliament, to build confidence. I think we need to do this, and because we can build confidence in it. From this agreement and to which I also hope to arrive together for Catalonia, of course, to which we honor, and we will focus on this, I think we must be able to reach broad agreements. Therefore, it must be honest, in the constructive sphere, and I believe that it is required of all, and then coherence: the agreements to which the independenceist government will end up here and the opposition must defend itself; also if one day I am once again a minister – and I did not bring myself to the Constitutional Court, the agreements that you push. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.12.0	The word has now been said by Mr. Salvador Illa for ten minutes, who has served the candidate, Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.13.0	Mr. Candidate, in an investment debate basically is answered a question: what country model do we want? This is the question that is answered in an investment debate. And you made a split settlement, not all over the country, but for the half of the country. It has done a divided approach, which we have already seen in the last two years and which has divided our society: Catalonia today is less cohesive than 2010; it has impoverished it: Catalonia today is less rich than 2010; and it has discredited our institutions: the institutions of Catalonia today have less prestige than they did in 2010. And he insists on this split layout. I made a different layout. I have not denied him the right to defend what you have proposed; I have told him that this is not the approach today in a context of pandemic and social and economic crisis our country needs. And I say again: we are not, we are not to be in. Today a European commissioner is visiting a plant of a pharmaceutical industry here in Catalonia that will manufacture more than 5 million Janssen cows. Where's the Generalitat? Where are you? What is our government dedicated to? Have you given recollection to this sector? You propose to vote. I agree with the vote; I have no problem with the vote. An agreement, not a breakup. Because it will further divide the Catalan society, this settlement; it will further divide the Catalan society. And there won't be a solution that doesn't go through to respect the cohabitation mark, that is, the state of the right. If we respected him, we didn't get here. And we'll just go out and respect him. And he proposes, with this approach, a government formula that today only counts on the support of the CUP. I have all the respect for the deputies and the members of the CUP, I would just lack, all the respect; they also need to have it for me. And I say they make an anti-system layout, because I think it's an anti-system layout not to give support to the police of Catalonia. And he asks that he is given explicit support to the police of Catalonia when he is fighting aldaruls and acts of free rape on the streets of Barcelona and on the streets of many cities of Catalonia. And you took a while to get out to give support to the police of Catalonia, which is the democratic task of guaranteeing the first right – the first right – that we have Catalans and Catalans who are the right to live together, to have a guaranteed coexistence and a public order in the streets of Catalonia. Let's see... his placement, if so good, would count today, already today, with the support of most of the chamber. For what it seems, I don't want to anticipate anything, you never know, for what it seems, you don't count on this support. If you count it, I ask him: why didn't they do everything you put up today after two years? [[Greetings.]] Why didn't they do it? Why wait to put more resources into Catalan sanitation? Why wait to put more resources in education? He's had two years, he's been part of a government that's had resources to do this. Why didn't they do it? Why do we have to wait today? Why do you look like you want to open a new time? What have we done? You were vice president of a government; why did you not apply these measures? And ask them, please, I think I can ask for it – in short, do whatever you want, huh? – a point of humiliation. It seems, listening to you, that the management of the government that you were part of has been a management of the god–of the god–, they have not erred in re, all that goes badly to Catalonia is the fault of the others, of whom it is, never of you. Look, I'm in a pandemic, where I'd have enough to say, I won't say king, you know? Because what I'm after... what I'm after, what I'm after is that the first big thing we have to do to overcome the pandemic is go together and not criticize us in public. Please review all my statements with the Minister of Health or the candidate and find a single time – one time – in which I have not only not criticized, but have not supported the decisions made by your Government, I am told, please. [[Greetings.]] One time. The Government of Catalonia has had more joy than the Government of Spain than you have had among yourselves. And I know what I'm talking about. [[Greetings.]] And I know what I'm talking about. I don't care, I'm not a man of indiscretion, I don't like to satisfy the curiosity of some people who are just hanging on to what we said and what we said. That I didn't pate anyone, I know how to maintain discretion. And I know that to overcome the virus I need to go together and rejoice. And you, if you are invested, will have it; no doubt, you will have it. I will ask you for information, I will ask you to listen to my proposals, but there will never be a comment on who is rooting them out either from the members of my parliamentary group putting their hands on the wheel or criticising or blaming others. That this is hard enough to do, actually. And we see great European leaders apologizing to their countries for four hours after announcing reforms. A point of humiliation, all of you, too. And ask him one thing, don't take it badly: don't follow the Evergreen of Catalan politics, don't embarrass and even the progress of this country; don't block Catalan politics any more. I think that its layout – I have the right to say it there I would say the obligation to say it there – is blocking Catalan policy, because it is a formula that we have already had and that has not worked. And I don't see the level of solidity we need today for the government of the country to pull forward and unlock the potentialities of Catalonia. You have raised many things, you have made an extensive catalogue of things, in economic matters, in social matters..., but the first request that Catalonia needs today is legal certainty, it is confidence in the strength of the Government. And you're going with a setup that either subdues or commits to submetering two years into a question of trust. Is this the confidence that the only partners that you can exhibit here today, who are already asking you in advance that two years from now you are subject to a question of trust? I don't think that's giving a signal to the country... [[Greetings.]] I believe that this is not giving a signal to the country of trust, of legal certainty, of certainty, of predictability. I, to you, Mr. Aragones, the truth is that I've treated him a little. But I have to say that when I dealt with it I have always found in you a very polite, very correct, decent person. I also found in Mr. Torra a very polite and very correct person, huh? I mean. I don't get upset, I think you, that I have more for a person talking and, well, if you want to do the right thing girls, I think you do know that what you're proposing today can't work. I think you're aware. I've deduced from everything, from the style of his intervention. And no, I'm not grateful, because you know what's going on? That we are not living a normal time and that Catalonia cannot afford to waste more time. And that is why I want to say again in this turn of the line that there are alternatives, that there is another possibility, that we are not condemned, that we do not have to resign ourselves to repeating a failure, that we can open a new time, that at this time there are priorities that effectively can agree with a vast majority of this room: to overcome the virus, to reactivate the economy. But in order to reactivate it we need a solid government, we need legal certainty, we need legal certainty; we do not need to constantly play with the mark of the state of law. They can also agree with us, effectively, by not leaving anyone behind. They're circles we can agree on. In the first place, we need, I insist, a government with clear ideas, with solvency, with security and with strength. You mentioned in your initial speech President Tarradellas – he made other quotes. I want to finish this return with a single date, as well as President Tarradellas. He did not say it, wrote it, on April 16, 1981, in a letter addressed to the student director of La Vanguardia. President Tarradellas said: "It is desolating – 1981 – that we have the megalomania and the personal ambition of some of us who have led us to the pitiful state in which we find ourselves. How is it possible that Catalonia has fallen again to sink into a painful situation as it is beginning to occur? He gave it to him in 1981. It's pretty current. Thank you. [[Greetings. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.14.0	Mr. Aragonès tells me that he wants to use his word, counter-reply. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.15.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Illa, let's start with some corrections, which I think we are obliged to do parliamentary debates with data, right? The education expenditure of the year 2020 is the largest expenditure in the history of the Government of Catalonia: €5,921_million. These are the dice. You can do that not with the head, but in any case consult the official figures and see that it is so. The expenditure in health of the year 2020 is also the largest, whether we count the extraordinary covid expenditure as if not. If you don't count it, 11.278_million euros. The expenditure of the year 2010 will be 10,325_million euros. Expenditure deserved in the field of salvation. I think it's important to place the data, because if we pervert the data, the people who listen to us can have an incorrect impression of what happened. Does that place us in a self-contained state? No, no, In fact, we'd have to have a lot more resources. In fact, we have to be able to devote a lot more to it. And I come here today to defend the project that I defend in the social sphere, in the economic sphere, in the national sphere, in the feminist sphere, in the field of the ecological transition, because there has been a way before. And this is institutional continuity. And you can't challenge the way that you've been in the institutions of the Catalan Government for the past two years. I take responsibility for all the previous mess, the good things, which are very many, and also those things that we have not been able to do very well, which are not there either. Miri, you won't find in me, in this sense, any excessive self-complication, but I will claim the work done, because I think it's justice, and I've put two data on it, in the realm of salvation and in the realm of teaching. He won't find it in my victimism. I won't make it easy, I won't make it easy. Because I'm starting from the fact that, I want an independent state, I want the independence of Catalonia, it's to have all the responsibilities, not to have any excuse that I place responsibility outside the institutions of this country. Therefore, I want all, all responsibilities; that it is the one carrying all freedom, to have all responsibilities. So, before I demand someone else, at another institution, I'll tell you what we've done. And, therefore, we have the authority and the obligation to demand direct aid from the State, because we have done it before. We have the authority and the obligation to say that the political resolution of the conflict must start from a solution that can give the view to all the citizens of Catalonia regardless of what we think, because we have defended it, because the U of October defended the vote of the yes and also of the no, obviously. And we had ours. Mine, I think it's supposed to be, who is it. And precisely because I want to take on all responsibility I want to clearly subtly also to the constant evaluation of this Parliament. I don't have a problem – I don't have a problem. And I'm doing it precisely to build trust, to go to a new culture where I submetre 'his assessment of this chamber is not an exhibition of fever, but an exhibition of confidence that we will do the well done work. And I'm not convinced. And if I do, it's because I have the confidence that we'll do the job well done, that we'll make ambitious but possible commitments. And, therefore, let us subdue ourselves to the trust of this Parliament. And I'm convinced that we'll get it now with the investiture, as it is today, further ahead, and we'll get it again with a question of trust. Normally, when we talk about the political conflict between Catalonia and the State there is a certain argumental refuge of those who want nothing to change, which is the state of law. But the state of law is not immobile, the state of law is not a petrified thing; why do we come to make the deputies to this chamber if it is not to make the new laws, the new laws that rule us about social life, economic life? What are we going to do in this room if you don't change the laws? What are we going to do in this room if it's not turning reality too? We don't come here to have a lawyer debate, totally respectable, huh? And for a law degree, I'm telling you that even at a few exciting points, but we don't come to do this; we come to make new laws, we come to break old laws and replace them with new laws. And to assume that political conflicts must also be able to bring about changes in this sense. It has been the lock to interpret or modify the laws that led us to the situation here. Therefore, I believe that you must make the effort to put yourself in the band of solutions and not in the band of obstacles, as I said before, Mr. Illa. And, look, you've made reference to the institutions – and I'm done with this, and then you'll make the counter-replication and, therefore, it's the later..., the later words to you in this investiture debate. You spoke of the institutions, of the institution of Parliament, of the Generality, of regaining prestige. On October 1, 1998, in a general policy debate in this chamber, a resolution was adopted that said: "The Parliament of Catalonia, in the wake of the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights, ratified the right of the Catalan people to determine freely their future as a people, in pa, democracy and solidarity. If we were to vote on this again today, we would probably have a threat of incapacity for the Bureau, such as the complaint filed against the Bureau and the previous president, against Roger Torrent and his company and company. The Speaker of Parliament at that time was Joan Raventos. The PSC has abstained. What's changed all this time? What changed in twenty-three years? We're going back to putting ourselves all at the side of the solutions. We're there. You'd be better off coming back to him. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.16.0	Mr. Illa, you use the word for six-minute space to make the counter-replication.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.17.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Three very brief questions, Mr. Aragonese, Mr. candidate. First of all, we are, my group is, for a proposal to back down Catalans with ourselves, with the rest of Spanish and the rest of Europeans. Backstage. I feel that I'm also at the side of the solutions; here he will always find me. I see that your layout still feels, to my mind, a split layout. Naturally, the state of right is not immobile, naturally, that the cohabitation mark that we have can be changed. We modified it in Catalonia in 2006, we modified the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy. What we can't do is break it unilaterally. We can't do that. If we change it, we have to change it for the procedure we agreed between all of us and we have to change it count-all, all of us, listening to all of us. That's why I'm moving him forward as I'm going to defend and help him. I'll tell you what: if you invest, I'll help you activate the dialog table that was agreed on the occasion of the investiture of the President of the Government. But I'm not going to ask you for another one, one here in Catalonia, with all the parliamentary groups that we're in this chamber. [[Greetings.]] Because there has to be a Catalonia endins dialog. There's also got to be a dialy. And if you, in the case of being president – which you are about to see – go to the negotiating table with the Government of Spain with an agreement of the negotiating table of Catalonia, you will go much harder to defend positions. But only the position of the half of Catalonia does not hold, because there are many in Catalonia..., there are many who defend independence, but there are many who do not see that this is the right way. What I put to you is precisely this, which at the moment seems to me that its layout abounds in a division of society, and I don't..., for this path I won't follow it – I won't follow it. For the path of the dialog, for the path of negotiation, for the path of agreement, and as long as I follow it. For the way to turn politics into a useful tool, I will also follow. He'll always find me, he'll always find us. We're not going to make a policy of obstruction and blockage. When there are things that are useful for Catalan citizenship, they have always found us and here they will find us. Second, he asked me to comment on it. You ask to have all the responsibilities. I, too, have no problem in increasing the responsibilities of the Government of Catalonia. Now, the first one we have to do, Mr. Aragones, is to exercise well what we have – exercise well what we have. [[Greetings.]] And that's it, all of us – when we make decisions that are wrong. All of it. Give more strength and credibility to petitions that you can make if you recognize management errors or issues that have not been done well. And I didn't hear any self-criticism in his intervention, cap, cap. And I liked it very much – to say a positive thing, too, of his intervention – that he flees from victimism. It's not a good solution – it's not a good solution. And, indeed, you have found that it is incompatible with wanting to ask for more responsibilities for Catalonia. Now, let's start by exercising well what we have, that there are many – that there are many. And in many things, we could do things much better. And I honestly believe the country is asking us to make them better. You talk about more resources and more legislative power. Okay. Now they're going to defend themselves. We are in the mark of a composite state – of a composite state. If you want to tell them federal, I can tell them federal. I say I'm composted. They'll have to go and defend themselves. You'll find me here too, if you're elected President of the Generality. To defend more resources for Catalonia. I don't want any privileges for Catalonia, but I don't want Catalans to have any less privileges than they have. And, indeed, we live in a competitive world, in the Spanish State and in the European Union. So, I agree with more resources. But the first person I ask of you in the event that I'm president of the Generality is that you go to jails where these things are negotiated; that we don't delegate our representation to technicians appointed by other autonomous communities or that we simply miss each other. Because this is not a good way to defend the interests of Catalans and Catalans. And in the third place, about the formula that you propose to us here today..., in other words, the agreements that you can display, at least at this time of this divender March 26th..., is only the support of the CUP. I told him what I think of the CUP. I think it's a group that's got all my respect, but it's radical and anti-system, and I'm mostly not going to be found on the premises. Now, she's curious – at least admit'maixò', she's very curious – at least I've been very curious – how to weave trusts subtly in advance of a question of trust two years ago. Because I, in short, have a little experience in public administration and politics, and I haven't seen much of that. Neither in the municipal sphere, nor in the Government of Spain, nor in the Government of the Generality. It's usually agreed for four years, which is a long time ago – as you know, because you also have experience in this – it's a short time ago when you want to make fund transformations. And I think you're shooting a little bit of a trick in two years' time coming back here and regaining confidence. What little confidence they have with you—what little confidence they have... [[Greetings.]] I wish you... If you are president – I don't know if I will be able to intervene again in this debate – I wish you all the same luck, because your fate will be the fate of Catalonia. I wish him all the time, if you're president. I don't think his placement is what suits us today. But, if he did, I wish him all the color very much luck. I'm done. I, in my intervention, have mentioned, I have summed up in seven the attitudes and values that I believe should preside over this new stage, which I believe we must open up to Catalonia. And, in fact, I want to summarize them even more: in two. That he also asks us to try to practice everyone. I promise to do it. I may be wrong, but I'm committed to it. And it's a good thing you've done it all through the room, isn't it? I summarize them, the seven I said, to two: tell the truth and work to unite Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings in a section of the room.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.18.0	After this counter-reply, we will suspend the session one hour per dinar; we will continue to a quarter of four. Thank you. [[The session is resumed a quarter of four minutes late and seven minutes later. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by the first and second Vice-Presidents, and the first, second and third Secretaries. Attend the Bureau the secretary general, the major and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.19.0	Let's resume the session. And right now, Mr. Albert Batet, spokesman for the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.20.0	Too late in the day for everyone, all of them. Very honourable President of the Parliament; a greeting, too, to the President of the Parliament and to the Presidents of the Generality who follow this debate from the meetings of the Parliament of Catalonia; Members and Members, Councillors and Councillors, Mr. candidate, very late everyone, everyone. Before I begin, allow me to take advantage of Junts' first intervention for Catalonia in his parliamentary term in this thirtieth legislature to thank President Borràs for her determination to assume the presidency of the Parliament of Catalonia. It's a capital challenge because the charge involves, unfortunately, being placed in the spotlight of the judicial persecution of a state that does not respect the essential rules of parliamentarism. But those of us who know it know of their compromise with democracy: it is insurmountable and insurmountable. And we are convinced, President, that you will make a great task of protecting the sovereignty of this institution, which represents the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, because you can debate everything and because you preserve the rights of the deputies and deputies as legitimate rights of the representatives of the citizenry. And that is why we are grateful and happy that today we have been shown with the vote that Councillor Lluís Puig will be able to exercise from exile. [[Greetings.]] From Junts to Catalunya, we also want to give thanks to more than 570,000 Catalans and Catalans who on the 14th of February trusted in our political project. They are our strength and their vision in the Parliament of Catalonia. But, above all, we want to address the citizenry that also chose a paper from an independent party. Because the outcome of February 14 was unappealable. The Catalans and the Catalans expressed themselves clearly and bluntly: for the first time, the independence parties have sunk the 52_per_cent independence vote. We have seventy-four Members here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, the largest parliamentary majority in favour of the Catalan Republic that the Parliament of Catalonia has never had. Therefore, the outcome of February 14 is an opportunity, but it is also a responsibility; an opportunity that we cannot take away and a responsibility that we cannot take away. To overcome the 50_per_cent threshold, it was a sine qua non condition. All the independent parties had defended us, we had claimed it during the election campaign. In order to advance the independence process, it was a necessary condition. Citizenship has shown us, a little more, that there is always, never fails, that it has done its job in difficult conditions, as in which it was hard to finish the election day of the 14th of February. And now close to us, to politics, to politics, to elected representatives, to the deputies and deputies of the Parliament of Catalonia, to this chamber, to be at the height of circumstances. That is why we believe that this will of the majority of the people of Catalonia must unfailingly mark the compa of this new legislature. In fact, the success of having achieved 52 percent independence vote is also evident with the response of the Spanish Government, which has not paid the ballot box. He did not respect the results of the elections of 21 December 2017, and now it seems that he did not like this either. In fact, since the 14th of February until the day of today we have seen, in the last month, how the third degree to political prisoners has been revoked; the prosecution, which controls Mr. Pedro Sánchez – « Who is in charge of the prosecution? – he asked for the same election day. We also found out with the complaint that the same prosecution filed against the previous Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia, with President Torrent and the different members of the Bureau. We have also proven it with a PSOE aligned without skirmishes with Vox, as well as with the People's Party and Citizens, to vote in favour of the supplicator to the European Parliament against President Puigdemont and the Councillors Comín and Ponsati. And this very week, to reject the passage of the Amnesty Law to the Congress of Deputies. That's why this is the 52_per_cent legislature. We're 52_per_cent. We're 52_per_cent to move forward. We are not 52_per_cent to do the same as if we have 48_per_cent. We're 52 to move forward together. To move decisively towards independence, and, at the same time, to manage a health, economic and social crisis without precedents. That's why we need a good deal. That's why we want a good deal together for Catalonia. We want a good deal to make a good government. A four-year-old government. A strong and stable government. Together for Catalonia we do not want an agreement for an investiture, we want an agreement for a legislature. We want a good deal and a strong government, because 52_per_cent is a new opportunity, because 52_per_cent represents a new legitimacy, because 52_per_cent has to have political consequences. And that's why, before this new scener, as you yourself, Mr. Pere Aragonès, has recognized in your speech..., forces us to agree on a strategy, to draw a shared path, to establish a renewed alliance that I committed to all of us: citizenship, society, political forces. So we did the U of October. And now we have a duty to regain that spirit of unity, loyalty and mutual trust. Citizenship, with the result of the elections, has been very clear. He's directly questioned us all. He has given us an unappealable message: thirty-three and thirty-two. "Please, tell us the city, "you have to hear; you have to agree. We have to come to terms. That's why we need a good deal. And the question I think that we humbly have to do, collectively, is: have we after mistakes? Should there be after school? Out of the logic of unity and consensus, there reigns disconcert, mistrust and mistrust. You, Mr. candidate, Mr. Aragonès, already carry many years in Catalan politics. In this we share a personal characteristic: we are young, but we are, of the different parliamentary groups, the ones we have most triennis in the house, and some legislatures in the Parliament of Catalonia, you some more than me. In fact, we even shared parliamentary group with Juntes for the Yes in a small time, because then you went to the government of President Puigdemont. And that's why we have to ask ourselves the question: are we after experience? We can't make the same mistakes of the past, we share joints for Catalonia. We've lived this long through this last term, and we don't have to live with each other. Let's do the self-criticism that's needed. We were not able to give a united response to the repression, as was the failed investiture of President Puigdemont, as was the non-investiture of Councillor Turull the day before he entered the prison – we all remember very much that day. As the non-unitary response to the rejection of the sentence against political prisoners, all the social protest there was in the street. As the non-unitary response to the disqualification of the President of the Generality, President Torra. That's why we're holding hands and we want a good deal. Because we're after school. Without a good deal, we won't work it out. And, in the same way, we can't launch all the efforts that have been made so far. We didn't get here from the no-res. We didn't get here for nothing. We can pay eleven years back, when part of the citizenry realized that the process of independence was irreversible, with the reply to the Constitutional Court's judgment on the autonomous status of Catalonia, which had the eyes opened to many Catalans and Catalans before the impossibility of progressing as a country and as a nation in the Spanish State. From then on, at the length of a decade, we have made firm and determined passes to advance in the exercise of the right of self-determination as a single way forward to preserve the progress, the well-being, the Catalan language, our culture, our birth; our people, Catalonia: from popular consultations, passing through 9-N – to the middle of Junts for the Yes, with assemblies with ties and steps at the side – to reach the U of October and the declaration of independence of 27 October. That this Parliament never said it wasn't like that. It would be incomprehensible if a part of independence were invalidated and politically delegitimized by the October U referendum. We're not here. Here Junts per Catalunya won't find us. That's why we're holding hands and we want a good deal, because we're after the lesson. But it would also be unwarranted because individual sacrifices have not been in vain. Some have not paid and continue to pay for very harsh, unjust personal consequences: imprisonment, exile, repression, judicial persecution suffered by Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, who suffer the months, who suffer the independenceists. Even people who are not politicians and civil society also suffer from this repression. More than two thousand people suffer the repression of the State. And this kingly thread of persistence and perseverance has a sense, and now we can't cut it in pieces. Because everyone – everyone – has cost us a lot to get here. In fact, we had never come this far, nor did we have the actions that we now have in our hands to win and achieve the freedom of our country. We must recognise – and, if necessary, make self-criticism – that more than three years ago we went to the trailer of the State, that we were reacting and that we lost the initiative again. That is why we must point out our strengths and correct our weaknesses. We started this moment knowing that it was an ingenious and that we did not have an instruction manual, but now we have more knowledge of the playing standards of the Spanish State, of its repression, of how the People's Party acts as well as the Socialist Party – it's the same, governments that govern – and we know which cards we have to play to win the game. More than the essential unit of action that we have discussed, we are also aware of the limitations of a minute and self-governing intervention of Catalonia – with the application of 155 to live the consequences, and still the path – that prevent Catalan institutions from leading the country to independence. For this reason, from Juntes to Catalonia, we consider it essential to work a way of bifurcation that allows, from the free space of Europe, outside the clusters of authorities of the Spanish State, to prepare and guarantee political action to achieve the independence of Catalonia. So, we're willing to give an honest and honest opportunity to the dial table. You yourself, in your speech, recognized that we were not skeptics. And we're, like, skeptical, because, of course, in a year, a meeting. A big table, but a meeting. All right, all right, A lot of photography and a little more. But, also, let's get to the table, because we also understand that we all have to give in; that this is not imposed, that it is joined, that we go together, and therefore that we have to make concessions to build consensus and regain confidence. Now, all the victories we've achieved in the next three years, we have to recognize that they are the legacy of exile. Europe is where we find the judicial emperor, where we gain legitimacy and get international recognition. That's why we defended the fork, as we agreed in the previous legislature. For you it does not have to be a new thing, because the former Government was placed on those bases, of the fork, of the Council for the Republic, which we presented to the Saló de Sant Jordi, to the Palau de la Generalitat de Catalunya, with you, which was present. And we understand that the Council for the Republic is the key to preparing us to absolve the Catalan Republic. That is why we defend the Council for the Republic, because it has to act in a collegiate way and because it is the space of the collegiate direction, like the deliberative organ and decision makers of the full road to independence, from a space that defeats and avoids Spanish repression. And at the same time, from the Generality to work to ensure good governance for the benefit of the country's progress, well-being, cohesion and sustainability, without renouncing institutional resistance before attacks on our sovereignty. In short, a government that does its best to get out successfully of the health, economic and social crisis, but also helps to establish the foundations of the Catalonia of the post-coronavirus, of the Catalonia of the 21st century, because the pandemic forces us all and requires a look at the present and the future. And that's why we also need a good deal. We also need a good agreement from an economic and social point of view, because the country needs courageous, efficient and rigorous proposals. At these times we find ourselves with more than 150,000 llrs living in a situation of extreme vulnerability; with a turbulent position that is almost 14_per_cent, while youth unemployment wants 40_per_cent; with more than twenty-thousand enterprises that have had to close; with a GDP that has fallen by more than 11_per_cent, and in some sectors more still, especially in the field of tourism, etc., restoration...; and exports, one of the pillars of our economy, have decreased by 10_per_cent. There are citizens, there are people, with names and surnames, who have lost a family member or friend, who have suffered from malalty, who have had to lower the blind of their business, who have become unworkable or who have difficulty covering their basic needs. In short, people who now see dynamites their illusions and hopes. Protecting the welfare state and guaranteeing economic recovery must be on the frontlines of the future government. It's not an emergency, it's just that it's turned into an emergency, and we don't want to and we can't leave anyone behind. Everyone must be able to live a dignified life, he must have opportunities to develop his life and future project, vital and professional, in our country. Now more than ever we must be on the side of people, entrepreneurs, self-employed people, workers, merchants, restaurateurs, hoteliers, midwives, nurses, teachers, pages, fishers, actors, musicians, artists, sportsmen, young people, the great people; of everyone. Our model of society is to play the social initiative of society. This is Catalonia, so we've done Catalonia. A Catalonia that has grown despite the state. To pretend that now the whole public sector in matters of health or social or educational matters lies solely with the public sector, we understand that this is a mistake. The defence of the third sector is fundamental. We need to strengthen public services, which is not the same as the public sector. The view that all public services are the public sector the European left already surpassed it in the eighties. Therefore, I call this visit. And we consider that the best way to captivate this adverse situation hinges on the economic progress, in distributing the wealth that generates in a fair and equitable way. It is essential to help and believe in our product fabric, which is formed, 95_per_cent, by small and medium-sized enterprises. It can facilitate economic activity to ensure the survival of business and work places. From Juntas per Catalunya we know which country we want and what steps we need to take in the short term to address the immediate issues. They are detailed in our 342-page electoral programme, which I do not want to detail now, but... I will only tell you about the measures, taken in a document of fifty measures for a strong and effective government, which we also presented during the electoral campaign. Increase health resources in five years – this is about resources – to especially strengthen primary care, improve the living conditions of health professionals and enhance the integration of social health services. Gradually increase the education assumption up to 6_percent of GDP by 2026 to maintain a quality education system, including equity, and universalization from the zero to three years stage. Increase protected habitats in the year. We've done a lot of work, but we need to keep doing good work and go deeper into the tanteig and retract to reduce the wait to the months of emergence. To agree a new national pact for industry that empowers strategic industrial and logistical areas through incentives, attraction programs and investment support. To promote the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises adapting legislation and facilitating capitalization and growth and developing the Facilitating Economic Activity Law – we just approved it in the later term – and to continue to strengthen the internationalization of the Catalan economy. Transform the SOC, the Occupational Service, to reformulate active employment policies and adapt them to each territory and sector, and establish fully dual professional training with enterprise-related territorial dynamitzers. Adopt the Law of Science to boost formation, research, innovation, knowledge transfer, to consolidate us as the engine in biomedical research. Armouring linguistic immersion and Catalan school as a tool of cohesion, identity and coexistence. Adopt the National Lingua Pact, which links us with the identity of which we are, the Catalan language, the Catalan culture, the Catalan birth, in order to be able to live fully in Catalan and promote Catalan language and culture in the digital field. Guaranteeing – and you yourself said it was difficult, but that you had the commitment to do so – 2_percent of Culture's premise, and sometimes we also ask to approve the Law of Mecenacy. To draw up the National Urban Pact of the country alive, to understand that it is possible to develop projects of life and future from the Pyrenees to the Ebre, from the Empordà to Barcelona, passing through each of the districts of Catalonia and the towns of Catalonia. Everyone, visque no visque, has the right to develop their life and professional projects. And if I can, I'll try to stretch myself out. In the turn of the reply I will try to address other questions in the field of climate, digitalization, parity, governance. But, as we have said, we also have the obligation to take a long look and think about the Catalonia of the 21st century. Therefore, we have potential and ambition to make a country with a horizon of progress and well-being. Now, we can't forget that Catalonia is linked to hands and feet, with laminated skills, with an endemic tax deficit – €16,000_million in the year they go in and don't come back. It affects us, and it affects us because, depending on resources, we can manage one policy or another. And the Spanish State is hostile to the prosperity of Catalonia, neither does nor lets it; both the PSOE and the PP, both act in the same way. And I'm surprised here that Mr. Illa made a speech today and gave us some lessons. Because, of course, the Spanish state, according to the European Central Bank, is the state that less has invested to deal with the current pandemic crisis, from a health, economic and social point of view. The Spanish government allocated a 1.3_per_cent of GDP to it, while the European average was 4_per_cent. Few lessons, Mr. Illa. And it's also the state, the Spanish State, that has and encapsulates the highest youth tourism rate in all of Europe, according to Eurostat. As I said before, it is around 40_per_cent, when Alemanya is around 6_per_cent. Few lessons, Mr. Illa. It is the state that increased the share of the autonomes enmig of the pandemic – poor autonomes. The fact that, as a result of the pandemic, in a galloping form, it increased from EUR 289 to EUR 433. Maybe for you it's a little bit, but you can give a few lessons when the share of autonomies increases at these times to thousands and thousands of Catalan businesses and families. Few lessons, Mr. Illa. It is the state that presumes to have "the most progressive government of history, and, in change, brings and presents an appeal to the Constitutional against the least free of the IRPF from making them down, which we have agreed precisely with the commons. Few lessons, lords of the commons, and few lessons, Lord Illa. And it's the state that has allowed the bill for light to be more expensive than ever. I don't know if it's to pay for Mr. Montilla's cadira or to pay for the cadira of different ministers. And so we knew how the most progressive government in history is what makes us pay for the most expensive light, all Spaniards and Catalans and Catalans. Few lessons, Mr. Illa. And that's why Catalan society is not fully aware. In fact, this is how 52_percent of the citizenry expressed it in the elections of February 14: independence is the only real change. That's why independence is viable and inevitable, and that's why we need a good state. Now the independent parties have the obligation and responsibility to hear them. They may be worthy of the burden they gave us on the 14th of February. The city is tired of cockroaches, disoriented by sterilic tactics, and it gives us a new opportunity that we can't spoil. He made it clear to us: "You have to listen. The independence parties have the challenge of articulating the pact that I translated in a tangible way this 52_per_cent independenceist. We can't do the same with 52_per_cent as if we had 48_per_cent. The situation has changed. We all asked for it and now we have: seventy-four independent MPs, without exclusion. We have the challenge of turning despondency and disconcert into illusion and hope. That's why we need a strong and stable government, that's why we need a solid government. A government with an advanced project; a government without a failed project – and we have examples of the last twenty years of Catalan politics. We would all share that the legislature that begins cannot be the same as the previous one: there must be a point of inflection. Together for Catalonia we want a coalition government, not a coalition government; together for Catalonia we don't want a submission or imposition agreement, we want a joint and alliance agreement. We know that at the articulation and day-to-day of governments, so, well, things happen. This happens to all governments; it happens to Mrs. Colau, it happens to Mr. Pedro Sánchez, listen to me, it happens to Sant Cugat del Vallès, it goes all the way. [[Rialles.]] Therefore, if we recognize ourselves as allies, we must shield ourselves in advance before the external interferences – and sometimes internal ones – that will arise in the next four years to make us fall into instability, stings and disloyalties. We'll have it after school? Shall we have some experience? That is why we must articulate a united, courageous, mutually trusted government, and that is why a good parliamentary agreement is essential and priorities. An agreement that you bring to the table, to the table for four years of the legislature, that allows us to pass assumptions, because without the table there will be no government, and without government we will not advance. It has to be a pact that allows concretion, Mr Aragonès – not rhetorical, but concretion – because this has to be the concretion legislature. Because we want to apply a full route that we map together to absolve the Catalan Republic, to execute public policies that protect the welfare state and guarantee economic recovery. We don't want a free market, we want a real deal. But it is obvious that today – and this is the reality, as you have acknowledged – we have not yet arrived here. Together for Catalonia we have no doubt, and still less question, Mr Aragonès, that you must be the one hundred and thirty-two President of the Generality. For a narrow margin of difference, this was the election of the independent voters, and you are close to the immense honor of assuming the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. We said it over the course of the election night, and today we say it again, we reaffirm it again. We will not ask him for a step on the side; we will ask him to take a step forward. We don't want to send it to the storyteller; we... together we want to make history. But it is your and your party's responsibility to lead the negotiations for this parliamentary pact. Political fer – political fer. And we've already said by active and passive that we don't speculate, because we're responsible. We will not speculate with nine elections or propose another candidate or contribute to any marketing or politics. Today, together for Catalonia, we will abstain. We will refrain from continuing to move forward in order to achieve a good parliamentary agreement. We want and work for an agreement that allows us to have a strong, united, stable government with leadership capacity, that gives response to the needs of the present, framed in a health, economic and social crisis without precedents, but that also has a plausible and transitible horizon that gives response to this 52_per_cent to achieve independence. Citizenship and the country deserve it. That is why, Mr Aragonès, after today's vote, with the firm will and political commitment to find a good agreement – which we see possible in the next few days and weeks–, Together for Catalonia we ask and formally propose that I resign from the second investment vote until there is an agreement between the seventy-four independent MPs. As permitted by the Rules and as permitted by the Law, you do not have any obligation to subtend to a _second investment vote. That's why we're proposing it. And we urge ourselves to continue to work on rapeseed, tirelessly, to close a solid parliamentary agreement long after the next few days and weeks. We said it in private and we said it in public, with generosity, with responsibility, with a sense of country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.21.0	Mr. Batet, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.22.0	I'm done, President. Now we've all come here with a lot of effort, with personal sacrifices. And, if I may, I'll end up with a more personal component, Mr. Aragonès. The same way that the post-9 political generation of November, despite the difficulties and disagreements, were able to look into the eyes and move forward and end up with the parties to decide to work together to achieve independence, now it is up to us to this generation, ours, that of the First of October, to decide sincerely whether we are willing, looking into the eyes, to weave new complicitys and trusts to win. Surely there are many difficulties. Surely we will find many obstacles, but we cannot lose the opportunity represented by the 52_per_cent legislature. We share a generational compromise that is also a political compromise. We, together for Catalonia, the thirty-two deputies and the whole party are ready. That's why we want a good deal to move forward, a good deal for Catalonia and freedom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.23.0	To answer, has the word now Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.24.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. MPs, MPs, Government Companions... Mr Batet and MPs from Junts for Catalonia, as you ended up making a personal reference, let me also start for a personal reference: congratulate you on your renewed fatherhood. We've had a chance to talk about it, precisely, so we've had this experience at very coincidental times in our lives. For me, it's the best thing that's ever happened to me in my life, being my daughter's father. And now that you've also had a daughter... that congratulated her to all the houses is extraordinary. Life at the centre is also being able to talk about it in Parliament. So, congratulations, Mr. Batet. In the intervention you've made, I think there are many elements in which we agree. The elements of coincidence, what we share is extraordinarily infinitely greater than the nuances and that the different accents that can see some different visions. We agree on the balance of February 14th: 52_percent of independent votes, seventy-four Members. I also agree with the analysis that on October 1st or October 27th repression has been a constant in our political life and that it has affected and is affecting very hard, very intensely, many of our partners and political leaders of independence. I also agree with the need for learning, to look back not to recreate us in what you might have been, but above all to learn how we want to pull forward. Because I want independence to win it, I don't want to be independent all my life, because I want Catalonia to be an independent country, which will be the only way I'm not going to be independent. He talked about the difficulties of Catalonia's self-government and put on the table a whole series of measures that I can say we share – in some of them we might have to work on a few accents, but I think we do – and that it is compatible with the agreements that we have been working on with the Popular Unity Candidacy. From here, how's it going? And this is the question we have to ask ourselves: how do we move forward not only to continue working for the independence of this country, but also to continue working for the citizens of this country, in their social, economic, environmental, and democratic emergencies. In Junts' electoral program for Catalonia – and this I will relate to the learnings that I think we need to put on the table – there was one part that says: "If independentist formations get more than 50 percent of the votes, they will call for the intervention of European bodies to achieve a referendum granted and binding. I believe that this approach, which came from a condition that we have achieved – exceeding 50_percent of the votes – is fully within the framework of the strategy, the framework of the proposal that we are offering, which I have offered this morning and which we have also been explaining in all the meetings where we have had the opportunity to do so by my negotiating team, to you and to the rest of the members and deputies of Junts for Catalonia and to Secretary General Jordi Sánchez, with those who have had the opportunity to see if they speak. It is obvious that conflicts of nature such as our conflict with the State, which are conflicts over sovereignty, are always resolved at a negotiating table, always. And so, as long as they're settled late or late, they end up..., even sometimes years after they've sunk independence, you end up at a trading table; even the toughest, the hardest, the most expensive, end up at a trading table. The question is to go there with all the strength, with the best of the conditions and with all the conviction. And I think we can do it, and I think we can try. They recognize the limitations, they recognize that the path is not easy, but that we have the obligation to try, precisely, from the learnings we have experienced these past years, and especially the learnings of October 2017. Some lessons that we have been reflecting on since the Republican Left, that we have tried to put into practice and that from our point of view are the element from which we constitute our strategic proposal. In the first place, the need for large majorities – large majorities. In front of a state that has not respected the democratic game, when they put us to play in another game camp they always win there, with repression; they always win there, with the measure of strength. We have the opportunity to win, which we need, in the democratic force camp, in the vote camp. And, in this sense, there are vast majority groups. We have taken an extraordinary step that we have never taken before: to exceed 50 per cent of independent votes in some elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. And we have to go reinforcing this majority – this is the first learning – and not spoil it – which I think is important. Secondly: the media that go beyond the electoral sphere, the media in the social fabric. The next steps we must take in order to achieve our political objective for the country, which in terms of sovereignty is the independence of Catalonia, we must accompany them, far more closely than we have been, from the point of view of entities, representative organizations, October 1. We were accompanied by a lot of people – a lot of people – but this doesn't rule out that we still want to be much more accompanied and much stronger. Fortalesa, too, land raid. Before I spoke of 'Sentence Catalonia, of this diverse and plural Catalonia. And independence, if we want to take a step forward – and we will do it, because we will do it –..., the step forward that we will achieve it as independence also achieves a representation and a strengthening throughout the country. Because the independent country that I want, the free Catalonia that I want, is the honest Catalonia, which leaves no barriers, no territories, no region, to offer prosperity to everyone. And I think we're on condition... we've advanced a lot and we're on condition of, too, taking even more steps forward. It can strengthen international alliances, because a question of this natural question calls the world. And we've taken steps, we've moved on a lot. And I want to make a recognizance of here: President Puigdemont's pocket in this area has allowed us, too, to move forward in this sense. And I recognize it, because that's it. Like the pocket of many other companies and companies, not only from exile, like Marta Rovira, but also the rest of the international visit, of the international contribution made by Catalonia. But it's a long way to go. An ambitious proposal, if you want it to move forward, must be realistic, and we know what the European and international gambling table is like. And, therefore, we need to strengthen alliances. And that's what we have to do, too. And the next element: the need for strategic unity, which we are not so far off – we are not so far off; in fact, the phrase in your program I accept right now – I accept it right now. But, in addition, I want to go with all the strength, with the strength to know that after we have a national pact for amnesty and self-determination, with the strength that confronts the dialogue and face the negotiated exit to the conflicts. That it is not for the Catalan side, that this conflict is over. And, therefore, this also gives us strength. Not everything we'd want, probably, because we know about complexity. The naiveties think they should stay parked. This will cost a lot, this will be difficult, but we will get out of it. And, therefore, in these international alliances we also need to be strengthened in the field of dialogue and negotiation. You've also made reference, you... Therefore, his sentence of the program I accept, ya, then. Fifty_per_cent, make this call: I want to have the dialog mechanisms set up, because it gives us a lot more strength, I think. I accept that. We can already agree on this aspect. I refer to your electoral program, which is your contract with the citizenry, as Esquerra's electoral program is ours. Another important reference – and I think it must also give us some thought, and I want to share it here – is the relationship between independence and institutions. He talked about the victories before the month of October of the 17th. And, of course, there have been victories in the judicial field in Europe that have shown how some of them call 'the judicial actions of the Spanish State stand out in a dynamic of repression, of the penal code of the enemy, according to my point of view. But there have also been other victories within the country. We must not forget that in all the elections that have been held since 1 October there was an independent majority: municipal, European, in the general elections – independent leadership – and also in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. And these are also victories. Some of us have never been able to do this before: independence had never been the first political force in the Congress of Deputies, and we have it, and today we are more than ever. Victims. So, I think it's time to explain the victories that we all share, because, besides, they're shared victories. And, in this sense, in the relationship between independence and institutions..., the same way that independence did not arise with institutions, the same way that many of us were already independent when there were no independents with a program like that..., maybe some had a certain sense of a lune aspiration, right? , platonic, but independence in a program like this..., many of us were already independent and mobilized on the street when there were no independents to the Government of the Government of Catalonia; therefore, we did not owe it to the institutions. But the institutions are important, because the institutions offer us our opportunity to put into practice what we would like to do with all the tools and resources of an independent state and with the need to respond to the social and economic emergencies that very many people are suffering in Catalonia. The Member has not experienced many, and we could not add many more: the difficulties in the social, economic, health, education and environmental fields. That is why the formation of a government is urgently required. That is why I stress that those nuances that still make us feel a little separated are very small compared to the urgency of giving an economic, social response to the emergencies of the moment. It's an empire. Because in this sense, if not, we could find that the difference would come to an end between what we want to do independence and the needs of the country, and I am convinced that no one wants it. The Member has highlighted needs in the field of product texture. And here I can expose, precisely to ask for the vote stated today, this late, the work shared along these three years. And I can't go looking at the last three years, we're talking about the last months. In the last few months we have made an effort – we have all made it – extraordinary in the government that we have shared to give support to the product texture. We've done it with a lot more than we have, but with a lot less of the ambition we want for our country, because we want to have all the resources and all the tools. And we have done this together with Councillor Tremosa in the field of business, with Councillor Jordan in the field of agriculture, with Councillor Chakir el Homrani in the field of work, to quote the economic field, or with Councillor Calvet, for example, in measures in the field of territories and with Councillor Budó in the field of sports. Therefore, this support for the social fabric and product of the country we have shared. And, therefore, the importance that you have underlined we share. And in this sense, I do not see any differences that prevent us from getting out of this House today with a strong, broad, plural government that is already able to work in these social emergencies of the country. He said independence was not just the country's institutions, which came from outside the country. It is not only the presence of the independenceists in the institutions of the country that moves our movement, that existed before, that exists above all much more there, because it is a social and political movement that sees the relationship in the Catalan society, that every day there is much more people; independence, that already existed before it was presented to the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, if we need to complement what is the presence of independence in institutions, in workspaces, in coordination spaces, we are there. He mentioned thirty-three and thirty-two. I want to sum it up, to get to the seventy-four deputies, the New People's Unity Candidate. Independence is plural, and as plural and diverse it requires that we find the instruments to be able to coordinate. And all disposition – all disposition. Speaking of institutions, I think it's important..., when the legitimacy has been mentioned, I agree with you: the legitimacy of Parliament must be defended, the legitimacy of the Government of Catalonia must be defended and the legitimacy of the President of the Government of Catalonia must also be defended. Because the way we defend today the legitimacy of the presidents that we choose is the reflex, too, the way we defend and how we want to continue defending the legitimacy of the presidents that preceded us. ( Some applause.) Bring it in. We add up to everyone. Let's get everybody into this new majority. I think it's possible. I believe that today the differences or the nuances that have been placed on the table – legitimate ones, and that I believe that we must face up to the utmost respect, because that is why we will get out of it – are too small for the risk that we are taking respect for the country, respect social and economic emergencies, and also respect the need to set aside this new leadership of the political agenda on the part of independence. Overcoming the stage of interinitiation that has marked our repression, this repression always threatening, precisely now requires the formation of a government, and make it quick. We're on March 26th; the elections were on February 14th. I don't think they can wait. Therefore, my offer is clear. I offered them a program: the one we exposed this morning. What you have put on the table in social and economic matters I believe that in a percentage almost totally we share it – we can get in to work the maths, we can work them. The program that we've moved into the different negotiations and that we've been able to analyze... there's no insurmountable differences here, there's no such thing as that. I also offer them a government that, as it is natural, recognizes the weights of the majority of Parliament, as it should be. It can't be any other way. It's never been any other way, and in this sense, we wouldn't make it any different now. I offer them a government that we can equip ourselves with – and this is done with a job that we can do on an hourly basis – mechanisms for better coordination, for better loyalty, for better collection work. You mentioned that coalition governments are natural, complex governments. We've seen it. And he mentioned the government of the state, he mentioned other governments, and we could give a lot of examples. But the future is coalitions, the future is coalition governments. And, therefore, we agree on the mechanisms, because we can share it with my program. The composition we can share, because it has to reflect, obviously..., and we can look at which areas, but the composition we can share, because it has to be the reflection of the majority parliament, it cannot be another thing. And also the proposals and I have put on the table an independentist strategy that fits, I think, that is not incompatible with the proposals of its electoral programme. That's my offer. I think what we have in our hands is so important that they don't admit unnecessary delays. He doesn't admit unnecessary delays, and we're on time. We are in time to form a government, to do so in today's debate or in the debate that is produced, so, at the end of two days, I don't know whether skilled or natural – in any case, the one who decided the presidency of Parliament will be fine with us – but..., in the next debate. I think we have the opportunity to do it. Moreover, I think we have the obligation – I think we have the obligation – after one and fourteen days – after one and fourteen days – to agree. That the situation of the economic and social emergency has not allowed long, that the covid does not expect, that the economic and social crisis of the country does not expect, that the repression neither has waited, and therefore needs strong institutions, a government of Catalonia empowered for the majority of this Parliament. There are no insurmountable differences. It is more, if there are, the differences are much smaller than those in previous investment procedures, and we agreed. And I'm convinced that now we can also agree. I'll work on the deal. From here until the final debate, if you today maintain forbearance, I will try to convince you that you are passing on to yes. If you keep abstaining, I will continue to work for the agreement so that in the second debate of this House, in the second debate two days later, we can form the government. The country needs it, the country is waiting for us and the country expects us to translate the magnificent outcome of the 14th of February into government work, in response to social and economic emergencies and in all national ambition. I'm sure we will. Many thanks, President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.25.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Albert Batet has the word now, for ten-minute space, which has been used by candidate Pere Aragonès. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.26.0	Very good; many thanks, very honorable president. Mr. candidate, Mr. Aragonès, said: "How are you moving forward? So we– and I think the speech has been very explicit– today we asked for concreteness, moving from rhetoric to concreteness because this 52_per_cent can generate the necessary confidence between independence to advance. And talking about a shared project... we agree, but that would also add to talking about a concrete project. And it has to be the concretion legislature. How is this 52_per_cent independenceist concrete? How do we resolve the conflict with the State? In a dialog table that only got a picture in a year? How is amnesty achieved with the PSOE, which does not allow or process the law to the Congress of Deputies? You must agree with me – I am not convinced – that the first stone of the Republican Generality was the organization of the October 1st, the U of October referendum. You and your party were part of it. The U of October represented a prior to and after the history of our country and in the process of national emancipation. It was one day... it was a foundational fact, a point of no return. And we want to put the U of October in value, and we won't give it up. And now it's time, in an investiture debate, to make things clear. How do you find the U of October? For us, it is a living mandate that has now been legitimized with 52_percent independence vote again in these elections. The U of October's experiment for us is still alive. And in our opinion, in this sense, it's important, because when you talk about referring to us, and I see that you have placed in the CUP many hopes in a new reference, a new reference... Clearly, and the first one we've seen this week is Mr. Ábalos saying: "The PSOE will not allow a new reference. Your governing partners in Madrid have made it very clear that they would not allow a new referendum, but you insist on a new referendum. And then the question we have to ask ourselves is: what will be the difference, with a new reference, with respect to the U of October? Because that also means responsibility, and that means speaking clearly and transparently to the citizenry and the majority of the population. That's why we're asking for more. A new reference that I replaced the October U? But will this referendum have an electoral union? Are we talking about a hundred people? Are they not going to vote or are they not going to vote? If we are able to make a new reference, then what will the Parliament of Catalonia do? Will we do as we did in October or not? And that's what we're asking ourselves, because talking about talking about us without saying how we solve aspects of the U of October, so it's not responsible. That's why we're asking him to do it. Because police rape wasn't a fake news, because the effort of many people can't stay in vain, because the repression that we're patenting at these times can't stay in albis. Therefore, listen to me, we have always defended it: a reference granted to the State can replace a reference of '1 October. But a new reference, if it allows me, unilaterally, so, man, generates a lot of doubts as to how we can replace and how we can improve what we've already done on October 1. Because police rape existed, and the subsequent repression also existed. And, therefore, I think it is necessary to speak clearly, and how these results will apply. Because, listen to me, we're better off making things clear, and we're better off later than ever. Our position remains the same: we consider that a 52_per_cent, therefore, must have political consequences. Because, of course, you talk to us about majorities: "We must be more, we must be more, we must be more. We're already trying to have more kids, huh? But... Listen, "we have to be more, we have to be more, we have to be more, we have to be vast majority... And until when? Is a 52_per_cent not enough now? How many times do we have to repeat 52_per_cent? I mean, it's concrete and it's willing to move forward. And we share that we want strong institutions, as it couldn't be any other way. We are people of government, we are people of responsibility, we have shared government with you, we are people of responsibility. I, therefore, escort'm, we desire the strong institutions. In fact, listen to me, on economic and social issues and on most policies... well, we've shared government. You have served as Vice-President of the Office of the President and Economic Adviser to the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Listen to me, we've shared government for six years, and you know..., and that's exactly why we tell him we need to learn some mistakes, because we need to stabilize. In six years, two assumptions. Catalonia needs assumptions every year, approved. Not a presuppost per legislature, but a presuppost per year. This is the stability that Catalonia needs. And this you know and know, that you have managed the social councils, of salvation, of welfare and of teaching. And so, well, welcome follow the steps, and you know the willingness to agree, but we have to be able to conjugate and add everyone, because, listen to me... And we..., welcome to add the CUP ; more efforts than we have made to the extent of these last years to add the CUP..., those that are needed. And we welcome them to the sense of responsibility. Surely if this sense of responsibility had followed the day of the investiture of Mr. Jordi Turull, we would now be in a different situation. [[Greetings.]] But welcome, this change of responsibility on the part of the CUP and this new horizon. But at times, you, who show willingness and say to make a coalition government... it's a little strange. You'll have to share with me what a strange first deal a government program with a partner who theoretically has to be a parliamentary partner who doesn't have to be with the partner who has to be a government partner. In any case, we understand that the order of the factors does not alter the product, but it would be better to find a good agreement with the party with which you have to govern and then find the parliamentary forces, because we have thirty-two Members. Yours is thirty-three. [[applause]] But we have thirty-two, and we also ask for a little respect, respect the citizen who voted for us. And it's you, Mr. Aragones, that we respect the rhythms and that you set the negotiation. And we have already shown our willingness to..., listen to me, dissabtes, diumenges, days" to keep, to the nests, with the limitations of the prisons, with the limitations of the times, so well, that marks the repression. And we have shown them, since the 14th of February, our readiness, but it is close to you leading and finding this majority and finding this agreement. We're willing to move us, we've already told him we're willing to move us. We are willing to accept a negotiating table, which we are totally skeptical of, because we have already seen the results that have been achieved and the will that they will repeat on a day-by-day basis on the part of the State, but well, it is clear that we have room to run and to pull forward. And listen'm, the pressing Junts... the pressing Junts doesn't work. I think we need to take a little consciousness. Pressing Junts doesn't work. What we want is a good deal. That's why we do have pressure, to have a good deal, because we want to learn from the mistakes we made together during this time. And just because we know each other, as you have also recognized, that's why we need a good deal. And having a good deal... so, well, listen to me, in Germany it took four months; in Belgium it took more than a year. The government of Mr. Pedro Sánchez took a long time... before they had reached the pact with Podemos, they went to some other elections. We're not asking for this, are we? We have already said this very clearly; let us not speculate with a few new elections and have said this in a very clear way. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, yes, a few lessons some of us must give, of which they are doing in other administrations. Few lessons, because we already see what's going on and how governments go down and how vice presidents come up and how we lose hope of what they said, dialog, so... we've already seen what's happened in a year and we'll see what false expectations we'll have to generate. [[Greetings.]] We see how they act, who promised pardons and the warmest is to the water. They won't find us here. And that's why we're going to be working on a good parliamentary agreement. And we give it to you sincerely, Mr. Aragones. We are willing to assume our 50_per_cent, but you have assumed your 50_per_cent to have a good deal and to be able to pull forward. And the proposal that we make to him is sincere, because he looks... and defends the legitimacy of the presidency of the Generality of Catalonia. I'd say this together for Catalonia we've never doubted it. Say no time when we've put this in doubt. [[Pause.]] We've never doubted that before. But we just want a good deal because the experience tells us that the legitimacy of the presidency of the Generality has not been respected for this Parliament. In the previous legislature, when, despite an agreement, it was not possible to bring forward the investiture of President Puigdemont on the 30th generation. [[Greetings.]] If it were to defend the legitimacy of the presidency of the Generality at those times, it would also have to defend itself at that time, Mr Aragonès. That's why we want a good deal. And we want a good deal to act with joy and because we don't find ourselves with these surprises. And this is the responsibility of both sides. And that's why, after today's vote... because politics are personal gestures, too. And the willingness to find agreements, and more than the responsibility, is part of personal gestures. And very plausible until Tuesday there will be no time to reach a good agreement, because you know how the negotiations and the rhythms that have been marked have evolved. And we're not here now with a willful of toilets, but... descriptively, how we can move forward in position. And that's why we ask him and repeat him and formally propose that he resign from the second investment vote until we have enough agreement of the seventy-four independent MPs to get 52 percent to be a historic opportunity for the Parliament of Catalonia, for the city of Catalonia. Because we deserve it, because we've suffered a lot, because we've made a lot of effort to get here, because we have a historic opportunity and we need to be at the height of the circumstances. And that means everyone's efforts. We are willing to make efforts, but we ask you that, in order not to go to a second failed investiture, etc., Mr. Aragones..., you have the power to resign from it, and, listen'm, maybe from here a week or fifteen days we can re-take an investiture session at first vote. And here he'll find us, but what we can't do for responsibility is not do politics. What we can't give up is politics. What we can't give up is not acting responsibly. What we can't give up is, now, for the press... then we find ourselves surprised and that it's a Vietnam. Not like that. That's not what we're talking about. And you've stopped a table for us. They put the dishes on us and put the blankets on us, they told us the menu: "The lords and lords of Junts for Catalonia must eat this – first course, second course, desserts – and, moreover, the bill is this. I don't, don't, don't. [[Greetings.]] We want to stop the table together. What we want is for us to decide what we're going to do first and what we're going to do next, how we're going to move forward. What we want... is to say, this, like we'll fix it. And that's not from the tax and from the submissive. This is from the coalition, to hear that we're only moving forward together. And this is the message that has given us citizenship. That's why we're asking him to give up this second vote, to give us the days we need to find a good deal, because we already know that presses are sometimes bad advisors. And, listen to me, you spoke before that you felt proud to belong to the government of President Puigdemont. Home, therefore, the government of President Puigdemont cost – the companies of the CUP know well–..., a diumenge, here, on the evening, but we got it after a lot of months and a lot of time. And it was a good deal, because we made the U of October, because we won the State, because we proclaimed the independence of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, a good deal is better than a government in a hurry. And that's why everyone has to take responsibility. Thank you very much. We will mark our total disposition, our disposition to advance. We think it's worth it, that it's a collective effort, a sacrifice we've made among all of us. We will not enter into speculations – I have already told the previous intervention, I repeat in all the different points – ; we will not enter into speculations, but we do ask him to do politics, we ask him responsibility. We ask, to you that I seek to exercise this responsibility, that it is for the benefit and good news for the conjunction of the city of Catalonia, for the 52_per_cent independenceist, for the people who went to vote on the 14th of February in very adverse conditions, for the people who have suffered during all this time. And that's why everyone's efforts are slowing down. We already recognize our share. Now you, Mr. Aragones, have yours. And we all have to move forward to build a better future for our children and our daughters. Thank you all very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.27.0	Then has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès, who has asked to make the counter-replication.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.28.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Batet, to go very quickly... I have been asked concretely: your program, your program point of how and what we need to do if we exceed 50_percent of the votes, I fully accept it. That's the thing. It's the reality that you got to the program, and it's the reality that I think we can share perfectly. I asked for it. We have it here. He asked me a few questions about the legitimacy of the U of October. I don't think it's a question of taking the U of October legitimately, but of how we can give continuity to what Catalonia's citizenry expressed, how we can continue the path and how we can overcome the blocking situation in which we are. We've been able to add up more people, and we've added up more people, since October 1st. Otherwise, unlike before October 1, which had not passed, independence did not win municipal elections, elections to the Catalan Parliament – again – and general elections. So he's moved on. And, therefore, it is a matter of summarizing it and donating it to it. And that's why we made a proposal. A proposal that can be criticized, a proposal that can, perhaps, be insufficient, excruciating. I'll take it. But there's a proposal about the table, and I think that... at the time you asked for concretes, I answer it: my concrete is what you brought to the program. I think that, in this sense, we cannot offer any more facilities. I'm done. This isn't about the table d'en Bernat, huh? Who's not there is not there. No, no, Here it's about adding up the maximum number of people. And, therefore, I am prepared today, when this House ends, to gather, to work, to do so throughout this week and to reach an agreement before the next vote. He explained other opportunities for independence and explicitly cited President Puigdemont's investiture, which resolved 'the differences there were, which were very great, because it was a question that even a candidate was challenging; in this case it is not so. You told me it's not like that, and I appreciate it. Therefore, as they are much smaller differences, I am convinced that if that is resolved in the matter of time, we can now resolve it in the matter of the days that remain until the new vote of this investiture debate. I believe that in respect of the voters, in respect of the agreement I have with the Members of the CUP, that we have the assembly of Members of the Republican Left, is my obligation to produce this debate again. But, above all, in respect of the citizens of Catalonia and in respect of the 52_per_cent who voted independence, my obligation – that of all, but my first – is to reach an agreement. I'm ready. We meet twenty-four hours a day; permanently available to reach an agreement before the vote. We're not very close. And, therefore, I am convinced that we will succeed. Many thanks, deputies of Junts for Catalonia. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.29.0	So, then, for two-minute space, has the word Mr. Albert Batet, using the right to counter-reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.30.0	Mr. Aragones, we're asking you to think about it, that you don't have to make the decision today. We agree to keep talking, but it is safe to go to a _second debate where there is no good agreement. And we want a good deal. Because we heard it today, Mr. Aragonese. Clearly, in the morning we heard a speech where he didn't call it the October 1st, where he didn't talk about the fiscal deficit. And then we heard a reply from Mr. She who convinced us, Mr. Aragones. So, what Mr. Aragonese will we find? What's Mr. Aragonese saying we'll find each other? That's why it's a good deal. Because we don't find ourselves with things we haven't given. And a point doesn't do the thing. It's all about trust, hearing, mistakes made and the willingness to move forward. And that's the sense of responsibility. And it's not that I accept a point and... no, no, because we'll find a lot of things. This is about the trust we generate and what mechanisms we have to move forward. That's why we defend a collectible direction, that's why we defend the Council for the Republic. Because we want to move forward, because we want to win, because we want independence, because we want a future better for Catalans and Catalans, because we want a good welfare state, because we want a country with economic progress, we want a country with capabilities, with resources that we have, but now we don't have it in our hands because they are going to do other things, okay? The army, etc., does not need to go into details of what the Spanish State is going to do with Catalan and Catalan money. But in any case, we make him an offer. Let's tell him that he's not rushing, listen, we're still talking, that we have days to move forward. And it's better a good deal than a government in a hurry that doesn't solve those aspects, Mr. Aragonès..., and you have to share with me that in three years we've had a lot of disagreements. And all the misconceptions we've had for three years, what we can't do is solve them three days to get you and us to press. Because, precisely, we want a good deal; a good deal for a good government, for a strong government and for a stable government. And that represents responsibility on both sides. We are willing to move us, but you must also be willing to move if you find this line. We are willing to go to a dialog table that we do not believe in, because we already see what the Spanish State does, we already see how the Spanish State acts, but we understand that in the interests of a good agreement, so we have to participate. We also ask you to respect all the fork and all the aspect that the Council represents for the Republic. That's a deal. Some give up and the others don't give up. What they can't be saying is, "We already have an agreement, we have a menu, and that's what you have to accept. Pressing Junts doesn't work that way. We will press to have a good deal and a good government to respond to this 52_per_cent, to advance for the independence of Catalonia. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.31.0	The words "Mr. Garriga", president of the Vox Parliamentary Group in Catalonia, continue. [[Greetings. Some Members leave the room.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, and after listening to the interventions between Junts and the candidate of the Republican Left and attending this shameful and noisy spectacle, I want to convey to you that I really rise to this rostrum with the determination to recover Catalonia for Catalans and for the ambitious project that has been and must be Spain. [[Greetings.]] It's our responsibility. After listening to this show, I assure you that it is our responsibility, the one that has given us hundreds of thousands of Catalans, which is nothing but to undo once and for all the route to which separatism and the rest of the political formations – one by action and one by omission – have arrested our country girl. More than two hundred thousand Catalans have relied on this political formation that I represent as president and spokesman. And I repeat this for those who have wanted to leave this room: more than two hundred thousand Catalans have trusted in this political formation. And I assure you that you will be able to leave this room, that you will be able to stigmatize our speech, try to censor us, but I assure you that we will not disappoint you. [[Greetings.]] We are the first national party with presence in this chamber and we will defend the interests of the nation above all, because in the nation and in the rule of law, in the constitutional order, it is where the freedom and equality of all resides – the equality of all: Catalans, Andalusians, Galicians, Madridns, Castilians. I am aware that we are not the first to try it, but I do assure you that we will be the only ones to reach the end, without losing sight of the ultimate goal and totally detached from the temptation in which others fell, to find peace at the expense of the ideals and principles that have brought us here. We're not going a different way. And I really recommend both the President of Parliament, accused of corruption, and all the ladies who want to steal from us Catalonia, to get used to it. Mr. Aragones, neither amnesty nor self-determination. Full enforcement of sentences and national unity. [[Greetings.]] And they will hear the voice of the thousands of Catalans who are not willing to look elsewhere. They will feel their political and moral strength in this chamber and in the street, and I assure you that they will be more and more. Because you are not alone, and we are going to help you break the spiral of silence that you have imposed through fear, the purchase of wills and the violence that is breathed in our streets, and that you suffer from the merchant or the host to the retiree who wants to enjoy a walk in peace. Our position is already ahead of you that it's going to be radical. Radical in the restoration of the freedoms and rights of Catalans in the current constitutional order; radical in the defense and application of the law, because nobody is above it and only the aspiring tyrants believe they are superior to their compatriots; radical in the strengthening of the nation and in the claim of our form of state, yes, the parliamentary monarchy, and therefore of its headship, the crown, the only institution that has been in its place in the hardest moments: the Catalans, the law and the nation. We will be radical and reaffirm ourselves in our consideration of enemies – not adversaries – to those who have given a coup d'état, to those who have flown through the air the coexistence in our land and also used the institutions to oppress the people of Catalonia. We will be radical in the defense of true Catalonia, not in that dream you previously expressed, Mr Aragonès, sectarian, confrontational, divisional. No, no, in the real Catalonia, that of Balmes, that of Verdaguer, that of Josep Pla, that of Salvador Dalí, even that of Mr Boadella. A strong Catalonia in a great homeland, because our democracy is not militant, but we are militants of the unity of Spain, freedom and equality. And whoever attacks the guiding principles of every democratic society, as I have told you, is not an adversary: he is an enemy of the Catalans and of the legacy we have received from past generations. The time has come to speak loud and clear: Catalonia is worse than forty years ago. Forty years ago, a group of teachers who sympathized with different ideologies called on all democratic citizens to sign, support or disseminate a manifesto. A manifesto that sought no other purpose than to restore an environment of freedom, tolerance and respect among all the citizens of Catalonia, which already warned of intransigence and confrontation between communities, which could lead to an irreversible process in which democracy and social peace were seriously threatened. The "manifesto of the 2,300s, although there were many more – the workers of SEAT sent up to a thousand_five hundred signatures –, was born from the deep knowledge of facts that have been happening for a few years, in which rights such as those relating to the public and official use of the Castilian, to receive teaching in the mother tongue or not to be discriminated against for reasons of language – rights, by the way, recognized by the spirit and letter of the Constitution and the Statut d'autonomie – were being disregarded. And not only by individuals or groups, but by the same public authorities, without the central government or political parties giving importance to this very serious anti-democratic fact because it came precisely from institutions that had no other reason than to safeguard citizens' rights. No one can deny the denounced by those 2,300, to whom from here we wish to commemorate and convey our respect for their courage in times when criticism of the consequences of the State of autonomy as a safe conduct of oppressive and totalitarian nationalism was methodically omitted. That the denunciation of the 2,300 was an annoying and uncomfortable truth is demonstrated by the persecution to which they were subjected from the Generalitat itself. And the fact that one of them was shot in the leg by a gang of heartless people and tied to a tree so he could die of bleeding is another reality. But, far from taking note and rectifying, it was left to do and allowed and facilitated the path to the oppression and constant violation of the fundamental rights of Catalans. That's right, with the gradual disappearance of the state in Catalonia. The Majestic pacts signed by the Aznar government with the Pujol clan were only the first step, an agreement that ended the equality of the Spaniards and that gave separatism the necessary tools – including education – to bury any political opposition in the coming years. Thanks to these agreements separatism was able to make and undo its desire in the educational field, indoctrinating the new generations in hatred and spreading falsehoods about the history of Spain and Catalonia. The transfers continued with the nefarious government of the employee of the mature tyrant José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. It was at that time that unconstitutional changes were made to the Statute of Catalonia, as the Constitutional Court later ruled. And everything that comes next, unfortunately, is well known. Separatism went from the slow path of the informal contempt of Pujol's 2000 program – a program that had no other purpose than to nationalize Catalonia and denationalize Spain – to the frontal and open contempt against the coup d'état perpetrated by separatism after the shameful and so-called "Operation Diálogo". King Philip VI halted the coup d'état with his speech on 3 October. The crown, attacked today by all the enemies of the homeland, was the only institution that was up to it at a time when separatism had brought Catalonia to the brink of civil confrontation. In the words of Philip VI: "I know very well that in Catalonia there is also a lot of concern and great concern about the conduct of the autonomous authorities. To those who feel this way," he said, "I say to them that they are not alone, nor will they be, that they have all the support and solidarity of the rest of the Spaniards and the absolute guarantee of our rule of law in the defence of their freedom and their rights. I want to express our profound gratitude to our king, Philip VI, and our unconditional loyalty to the crown, symbol of unity and permanence of our country. [[Greetings.]] Separatism is the ruin of Catalonia. After the coup d'état of 2017, growth has been lower than the whole of Spain, and it is a reality. They have turned an earlier prosperous land into a place where the future of young and old is in grave danger. In grave danger of unemployment, with more than half a million Catalans unemployed. In serious danger of debt, a debt that adds up to the total of Madrid or Andalusia. In grave danger for the legal insecurity that you have all created and for the actual expulsion that you have caused from the companies – more than seven_ thousand – carried out by separatism. In grave danger of tax evasion, with more than fifteen own taxes that all of you have been promoting for decades, and, by the way, to which you – tax evasion or tax hell – have not made any reference. And it is not a problem of territorial financing, no; it is a problem of waste and misappropriation of public funds. To allocate the money, for example, to the separatist agenda and to the enrichment of its associates: TV3, the Catalan NASA, the Cybersecurity Agency, the Tax Agency, Foreign Affairs, Diplomat, the Consortium... All this implies an expenditure of more than 1.000_million_of_euros – 1.000_million_of_euros. Every year, 1,000_million_euros. If we take it off now, when my little children turn 40, they will have stopped paying the debt. Until when, Mr. Aragones, will the Catalans continue to pay for the propaganda and hate organ that TV3 represents? How long will the Catalans have to continue paying the Catalan embassies abroad? How long will they have to keep paying the Catalans to keep the ideological farce of a bunch of hits and thieves? Lladres, yes, because with a rest to the list of presidents of the Government of Catalonia there is enough to hear how they have made separatism, to divide and confront the Catalans, a lucrative business. The Pujol clan, a criminal organization, according to the judge of the National Court José de la Mata, who is awaiting trial for an endless number of corrupt activities; Artur Mas, convicted of accounting liability for a total of 4.9_million_de_euros; Carles Puigdemont, accused of diverting 8_million_de_euros for the celebration of the famous referendum of October 1; Oriol Junqueras, convicted of aggravated embezzlement of public funds. They have institutionalized impunity for corruption to degrade both the institutions of all who have dared to place a woman accused of corruption at the head of Parliament. Really, Mrs. Borràs, do you think you are honorable and worthy of the place you occupy? The list is endless, and we could devote wholes to naming corrupt, corrupt and embezzlers. While from this rostrum repeating the lie of "Spain robs us, its leaders put their hand in the pocket of the Catalans and used everyone's money to finance their agenda towards the enrichment of the separatist elites and the impoverishment of the middle Catalan classes. In other words, the social elevator in Catalonia is only possible if it is part of the corrupt and totalitarian machinery of separatism or if it is rich. Thousands of children have been condemned to unequal opportunities with linguistic imposition. Today only those whose families can take their children to private schools and learn Spanish have opportunities. And the same happens with the university and the places of officials, where it is first part of the ideological, sectarian tribe, about knowledge. And worst of all, they intend to continue committing excesses regardless of what most people think, which they despise – and I repeat, the majority of the population, which you despise –, whitening, for example, lists of corrupts and agreeing on new covenants of silence. But know that the laws in Catalonia, as in all the national territory, are not optional, and ignoring them, remember the good, has consequences. And we will demand and ensure its implementation. In forty years of division you have all caused ruin and the impoverishment of the Catalans, because to separatism and to the left the welfare of the workers worry absolutely nothing. That is why you deny support to hoteliers and self-employed people, while you continue to increase spending, for example, on political spending. You've been concerned for so many years to please those fanatics and minorities that you've turned into characters who dance to the son of your farce that you've forgotten the needs and demands of real Catalonia. Therefore, when Vox denounces, for example, the insecurity and problems arising from illegal immigration or the growing Islamization of Catalonia, you take your hands to the head. Today our neighborhoods are much more insecure because of illegal immigration and the Islamization of Catalonia. Two years ago, for example, no one knew it was a MENA; today there is no one who doesn't know it or what it means. In this regard, I must say that it is wrong for anyone to think that the insecurity produced by many of these recidivist criminals is not going to come to their neighbourhood. In the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Belgium, Denmark and Sweden never thought that coexistence and security were at risk for these types of people. Today Macron – Macron – speaks of Islamist separatism. And the Danish Prime Minister, Social Democrat, recently declared that social cohesion was «under threat, and stated that one_of_five young people of non-Western origin and that they were neither adapted nor accepted the cultural traditions of the host country had violated the Criminal Code before the age of twenty-one – one_of_five. In Denmark, the Minister of the Interior has put forward a plan to prevent the expansion of these multicultural ghettos that attack coexistence and the Western way of life, the stability of the country itself and its security. To prevent the expansion of this subversive Islamism, the Danish Government has announced that it will limit the number of residents in the neighbourhoods of its cities to 30_per_cent. In Catalonia, separatism has promoted and protected this type of illegal immigration, while favoring growing Islamization. MENA receives EUR 664_monthly, a payment extended unanimously by all political formations for those aged between twenty-one and twenty-three years. And all this, thanks to the vote of all the groups present here, except Vox. Never count on our vote, whether it is about destroying the coexistence or endangering the safety of our compatriots. And I challenge from here the media and politicians to call all those parents xenophobic or racist, for example, who are afraid that their children will go alone at certain hours on the street, who are victims of theft or aggression and who have seen their neighborhoods, once safe and prosperous, are today the seed of crime throughout Catalonia. But not content with turning our neighborhoods into ghettos where the law does not prevail and insecurity does, they have made Catalonia a battlefield in which the violent have destroyed and burned thousands of businesses, condemned to merchants and neighbors to see how their taxes serve no purpose, except to feed and protect evildoers. You have spent so much money and so much effort on cleaning your head – "awareness, you call it – that we have even seen, on those nights of infamy and delinquency, as a pharmacist said to the violent ones who had behaved well because they only threw stones at the mossos d'ésquadra. If your goal was to make Catalonia the most violent region of Spain, you must congratulate them, they have succeeded. Perhaps that explains his admiration for a terrorist like Otegi. Did you admire him so much, separatists, in 1987, when the murderous band flew through the Hipercor air, seizing the life of Catalans? The hatred they harbour has led them to finally show themselves as what they are, which is nothing but indecent people who have no respect for the most important right of all: the right to life. And if you don't have respect for life, what could you expect, right, from the management of Wuhan's virus? Death and neglect. The first wave overflowed the hospitals and caused one of the worst mortality rates in Spain. They let our elders die by helping them die, as one of their charges said. And even the Catalan Association of Assistive Resources came to denounce that in many cases they did not carry out derivations of residences to save lives. You represent the greatest of the problems for security, for health, for the education and prosperity of Catalans, and therefore of all Spaniards. Because Catalonia is Spain, however much they want to steal what is not theirs. Stop mumbling Catalonia, Mr Aragonès, stop talking about « a populous sun, Mr Aragonès. Catalonia is a diverse, pluralistic village, a special way to be Spanish. [[Greetings.]] Separatism hates Catalonia, and hatred moves the separatists. They have been with the kidnapped Generalitat for decades, working for independence, building state structures, not uniting Spanish democracy and lacking the respect and dignity of more than half of Catalans, Catalans who do not vote for them and those whom you intend to silence through social and political coercion. Decades of a Catalan society in which client networks, fidelity and submission prevail, and neither merit nor capacity are taken into account at all. The separatists and the governments of the Generalitat have been ignoring what the neutrality of the public administration means, respect for the law and the rule of law. They have normalized public behaviors that should blush any Democrat, such as placidity, for example, with which criminals convicted of sedition and embezzlement campaign against the state they assaulted. The three players – Junts, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP – intend to maintain a situation in which they have hegemony. The only interest of the separatists is to continue to co-opt the posts, managing the budgets and power machinery in Catalonia, with or without independence, the perfect excuse to systematically exclude half the population. They have built absolutely nothing, except hatred of pluralism and the Spanish, trying, moreover, to destroy our identity. And I assure you it's come cheap, that's true, but we've come this far. Vox will lead the frontal opposition to all its policies. As I said, it will be a radical opposition to all the proposals you have put forward. And so we will demand and work from the first moment to recover the institutions of Catalonia, which does not mean, of course, to disagree with our already known programme of maxims: the elimination of the state from autonomy when we have enough support from the Spanish, and, as a previous step, the return of competences. We are going to protect Catalans from illegal emigration and we are going to monitor subsidies to irregular migrants, as well as any kind of public funding that you allocate, for example, to NGOs, necessary collaborators in human trafficking. We are going to regain the security of our neighborhoods and we are going to denounce the escalation of violence and insecurity in the Catalan neighborhoods, the centers of MENA, the ocupation, the narcopies and the benefits offered by all of you to the fundamentalist mosques. And we will also protect what you have despised for decades, which is our industry, our primary sector, and we will give once and for all the workers of industrial plants, who are suffering from relocation to third countries. And be assured that we will defend your interests. We will also recover the right to education in Spanish and the choice of the educational centre that you deny parents. We will denounce, always and forcefully, the linguistic immersion, which uses Catalan as a method of indoctrination of separatism. And we will support the freedom of parents to school their children according to their convictions, both in public schools and in private schools. We will audit and denounce subsidies to those associations that impose Catalan as a single language in schools, and we will also put an end to the criminalisation of businesses labeled in Spanish. We will also protect the money from the Catalans from the asphyxiation that all of you have been promoting for decades. And we will, of course, demand the closure of TV3 – hate and manipulation machinery – the Diplomat [[applause]] and all those administrative duplications. And, in addition, we will demand the abolition of all subsidies to separatist organizations. We will demand and work to protect the health of Catalans. We are going to demand that public spending focus once and for all on the health crisis, that massive testing be carried out, that masks be free and that the reinforcement of primary care be real, and what about the vaccination plan. We will also recover the prosperity of self-employed people, hoteliers, traders and workers in the tourism sector, to which you have all condemned to misery. We'll be his voice. And we will demand that this end, among many other things, for example, with the top blanket. And we will also ask for the temporary exemption that you deny these workers, for example, from paying taxes to the establishments that the government has forced to close this year. We will also protect Catalans, their families and their businesses, as I have said, from the separatist fiscal expoliation. We will demand a drastic reduction of all taxes, of those to which you have not referred; of those taxes that are drowning Catalans, including also the IRPF tranches, as well as a 99_per_cent bonus of property taxes, inheritances and donations. We are aware that you are going to try to impose on us what you call a ‘health cord', which I prefer to call the ‘deeply anti-democratic cord'. Starting with a radical disguised as moderate, it was who pushed him, here, Mr. Illa, but, believe me, one and the other will serve no purpose. We came to breathe hope into the Catalans, especially after seeing the speeches of reproach and far from the reality facing the Catalans as a whole. And I assure you that you will not succeed in killing the real Catalonia, which you all hate and despise so much. They have failed to intimidate the candidates of Vox and today deputies in this chamber during the election campaign – whom I would like to thank for their courage and perseverance. [[applause]] – not to the more than two hundred thousand Catalans who voted for us in elections that were neither free nor democratic, and in which all Spain has been able to visualize what you are, separatism, which is nothing but hatred and violence. But do you really think they will be able to stop us? Do you really believe that? Today we are eleven and we have more than two hundred thousand Catalans behind us. I assure you that today Vox begins to lead the frontal opposition to separatism and to the left in Catalonia. It brings, as I said, hope to all Catalans, to lead a project that defends freedom, equality, security and prosperity for all Catalans. We're here. We will defend Catalonia and the Catalans to the end. And, to finish my intervention, as a custom to do on great occasions and at a time when Catalans perceive us as their only hope before the left and separatism, from here I tell you that God blesses you and that God blesses our Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.33.0	Before we go on, the presidency wants to reflect. We have just heard a speech in which racial discrimination has occurred, insulting claims, unfounded claims, harmful claims that violate fundamental rights such as the presumption of innocence. There have been unacceptable generalizations with respect to the people of Catalonia. Parliament's playing field is and will be that of the essential democratic principles. I hope I remember all the members of this chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]] Then there's the word candidate Mr. Pere Aragonès. [[Joan Garriga Doménech asks for the word.]] Yeah, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.34.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...that the whole chamber can share, that from the presidency it's keeping a little neutrality. I know it costs you, huh? That he pulls separatism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.35.0	I asked him why he was asking me for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.36.0	...and she refuses to hear the opinion of our group, but I think she has to respect...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.37.0	I'm sorry, I asked him why he was asking me for the word. [[Joan Garriga Doménech gives up using the word.]] All right, you've given up your use of the word. Forward, Mr. Candidate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.38.0	Thank you, very honorable President. Company deputies, company deputies, thank you very much. "If there is doubt about hate, it is not possible to hate. If dubtessin, they couldn't be so angry. Hate requires absolute certainty. I hate it all the time. He doesn't exactly hate himself well. It was clearly implied by the subtlety, the gaze or the attentive listening. The precise decree implied this differentiation that recognizes each person as a human being with all its characteristics and inclinations, various and contradictory. They're not my words. It is a fragment of the book Against Hate, by Carolin Emcke, a German journalist and philosopher. And I'll read some more fragments. "With a limited time the wills and converts the individuals as such into something unrecognizable, there are only a few undrawn collections like the receivers of the hatred. And then it's defame, it's less, it's shouted, and it's broken in discretion. Odi makes its own object, and it measures it. Those who suffer from this hatred in their own flesh, those who are exposed to it, whether on the street or on the internet, at night or at full day, those who have to endure the use of terms that love all a history of deprivation and maltreatment, those who receive these messages in which they desire their death or those who are victims of sexual violence or those who directly receive this type of threat, those who do not know more than a few rights..., all those who are object of the hatred cannot and do not want to get used to it. "Well, that you can cry, offend and attack without fear does not seem to me to advance for our civilization. Like many others, I'm not willing to get used to it there. I do not want the new pleasure of freely hating to be normal, neither to my country, to Europe or to any other place. Hate is only a fight that rejects his invitation to contagion. Hate can only be combated by what they escape: careful observation, constant mating, and the question of the same. There wouldn't be enough for those who support and applaud the acts of hate to doubt themselves. There is not enough that those who incubate them imposing their thinking patterns and their type of gaze is seen to be wasted by the reckless naivety and cynicism that characterizes them. As I was saying, it's Carolin Emcke, author of the book Against Hate. So I make it clear: in this Parliament, always and again, against hatred and against fascism. The presence of Vox in this Parliament is more vivid than ever the words of Neus Català, survive the Nazi concentration camps. He said, "Freedom is something we still don't have a win for, and we always have to fight for. That's what we do, and that's how we win freedom. Dream of freedom! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.39.0	Then you have the word, for three-minute space, Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Having to hear lessons from someone like you, who represents a movement that has sown hatred, division and terror in Catalan society, is an insult to intelligence, and I assure you that I will not allow it. [[Some applause.]] And I tell you that I don't have to resort to either great writers or great essayists, because I have all of you in front of me. It is you who sow hatred, who sow it from your public television, from your public radio stations, and who are responsible for my political formation being stoned and raped in this recent election campaign. You are the embodiment of hatred and division, and you are indecent of the position you hold. I assure you, we will give the frontal battle. And I will not allow you not to insult this candidate or his acronyms; what we will not allow is to insult more than two hundred thousand Catalans with your words, your photographs and your performances. I assure you that what you have never had in this Parliament of Catalonia is a frontal opposition and that it is going to raise the flags, and it is never going to hold them back, which are of equality, unity and security. Therefore, prepare yourselves, because you will have a legislature where you may not work very much, but I assure you that the Constitutional Court will work very hard. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.41.0	Next is the words of Maria Dolors Sabater, president of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.42.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. Good afternoon to everyone who is following this investiture session, and, ultimately, to all the people of the country represented by this chamber, which has voted and which has not done so. He also mentioned special that he didn't even have the right to do so. Good afternoon to the more than three thousand people retaliated, to whom while we are having this investiture session I am in exile, in prison or waiting for a sentence, or you are afraid of a fine or detention for exercising the right to protest, the right to debate, to vote or to hold a house. Some of them are in this room. Also to those who every day run the risk of being identified by ethnic profile, to whom you are confined to the hidden prisons of the CIE, to whom you are about to be denominated, to whom you are planning to avoid it, to whom you are about to lower the blind, to whom you have already done it and to whom on May 31 you will stop charging the ERTO; to the health workers and essential services, for their excellent task; to whom you have suffered the cage in the same or in that of the people around you. It also takes a long time for all people who work tirelessly from municipalism, from cities and towns to improve the quality of life of the veins and veins; for people who organize themselves in struggles and social movements. In short, a greeting to the whole country at these times of severe climate crisis, health, social, economic, political and democratic demanding mobilization and responses. Thus, the discourse of the anti-system, of the CUP - A New Cycle for Guanyar begins. Because yes, we are very clear that this system that denouncing, entrepreneurship, expelling the majority from having a right to a dignified life, that deprives many of them of having rights, that protects the elites, that conceals corruption, that divides the territory and that offends the sees and the planet..., this is not our system. I made it clear we're anti-system, because this isn't our system. And, besides, yes, we are radical, because, as Marx said and develops Angela Davis, "to be radical is to go to the scene of problems. And, in case it wasn't very clear, I'm staying and I'm quoting one of the lords of the Davos club. In concrete terms, the founder Klaus Schwab, author of Stakeholder Capitalism. This lord has made a lot of money, a few weeks ago, this generation..., this gentleman supported, said publicly, that the current model of capitalism is no longer viable or sustainable. He says so. He says that after the basket we cannot continue with an economic system driven by selfish values, maximization of gains in short term, tax avoidance and environmental regulation or outsourcing. He says: "Unequalness has sometimes been worse. If that's what he says, that he's a lord of the Davos club, what won't he have to say and do his own government? Today, here, being on the side of history, being on the side of the veins, of the thousands and thousands of people who are left without light and not on the side of those who are rich with oligopolises who manage a basic good like energy..., today, here, being on the side of history is being against this system. And yes, we said: "When the CUP enters the institutions with strength, things happen. We were going to say that we'd be conditioning and that's how you're feeling, and that's how you're going to feel. The candidacy of the UPC - A New Cycle for Winning We have come here to implore the majority of Parliamentarians and the Government to deploy a strategy that takes effect the rights that today the legal and political mark of Spain enclaves to maintain the privileges of the elites, the political and civil rights – all of them. We came to make what the ballot boxes said on 14-F, which was very clear – all of you have been thinking about it –: the independenceist majority, the absolute independenceist majority and the left, the demand for left-wing policies, social majority policies, to rescue people's lives and economies. We have assumed the responsibility of making it possible with our parliamentary strength, our strength of new representatives, which we exercise with conviction, with generosity, but with strength. Because we are here to condition that the making of decisions that this chamber makes..., that the making of decisions that the government executes is conditioned and able to contribute to the better, better and better policy to rescue life and the planet, and to rescue democracy and end repression. And that means bravery and confrontation. There's no other way. Valentia and democratic confrontation. Rosa Parks said: "The more we listened, the more they abused us. We must all avoid a legislature, which we begin, of battles and retreats like the past; a legislature in which I lost energy in the pitfall and continuous guilt. And I also want to prevent him from taking over the government of this country at the head of 155, most of which is a warning of the regime. Because when the order of things is injustice, the taking of a new order is a debt. And if the rights don't fit into the laws, if the rights don't fit into the laws or constitutions, what it is to overflow the legal marks, don't detail the rights. And this Parliament must be loyal to this premise. So this is a nine-opportunity legislature. It is a legislature that does not pass the page of what passed October 1 and 3 and all the events of 2017. What we need to go through is not to go any further to get the will of the people to come into effect. We need to work for a new battle, because in this new battle it is possible to make this popular decision effective. It is necessary to recover the initiative of independence and to build a strategic political and social unit that overcomes partisanism, that overcomes grudges, that overcomes wounds. The city is very tired of battles, toilets. We're tired of losing energy in these eternal battles. We need to agree and focus the legislature to go there, go there, go there, go there, because the social crisis is very difficult, the democratic crisis is very difficult, and we can't waste time. We need to learn from everything we've done so far, from uncertainties and mistakes, making self-criticism and constructive analysis, but making a common front. The country needs it. It is a new opportunity because confidence in institutional policy is regained. Because, despite the continuous repression, this endless escalation of repression, and despite this exhaustion, the citizenry has again said, this time in a most absolute way, that this independenceist government, that it does left-wing politics, that the public sector is regained, that it can build the foundations of a new model of a just, more social, more inclusive, more ecological, more feminist country. This new legislature, this new cycle of rights and freedoms for everyone, has been what we have set up the table at the first moment to decide what our position should be. And they'll forgive me, but to us, they'll be afraid that, like we're assembling, we're so slow... so look, this time we're wearing our dues: we're the first ones to do our dues. [[Greetings.]] Because there is enough to normalize democratic anomalies, because there is enough that a corrupt monarchy, a secret judiciary for the sociological franchise for the right and the extreme right, seems to be acceptable. State locksmiths act with impunity. Corruption... as a systemic and systemic element; corruption, which is using public resources to maintain the status quo and the enrichment of the elites. They can't get used to this democratic anomaly. These tools, the Spanish State uses them as triggers against independence and against any attempt to impugn the regime. He did it with the 15-M movement; he did it with the independence movement. And we can never forget the excessive violence against people who only want to vote, we cannot forget all the repression that is still pathetic, that is still in a growing machine, and we cannot forget that the sovereignty of this Parliament is a sovereign that is intervened. It is a sovereign who is involved both in political rights and in social rights, because they are more than forty laws that the Constitutional Court has embargoes, suspicions or details, in its totality or partiality, but it is continually this top that tells us that we cannot exercise sovereignty neither to improve the right to housing nor to advance ecologically, in the ecological transition, nor to advance in the head of the political rights of self-determination of this people. But it is the complicity with IBEX 35 and with the economic powers, this complicity that there are many political spaces that have it, also in Catalonia..., but it is that the Spanish State is a structure of state, it is a structure of government, until now, with the supposed most progressive government of history, that does not stop advancing in privatizations, because it does not repeal labour reform, because it does not repeal the law bite and because it is what it says not to the Law of Housing. It's the no to dialying will. Much as they say there is a dialog, it does not work; it does not exist, this dialog will. It's the block. It is the state of "not to the names of the social laws approved by Parliament. We come..., the people of the Catalan Countries, the people of the Principality, we have just experienced the saturation of the public system, immobilism and paralysis. These denunciations diaris..., we are in a 50_percent population that claims not to arrive at the end of the month, 400,000 people who live in the severe poor, with tickets less than 350_euros per month. But we also have 575,000 people who are at risk of social exclusion, and about 31_percent of the country's infants are at risk of poverty and 1,800,000 live at risk of exclusion. This is a situation that deserves immediate action, and immediate action in which to exercise sovereignty. We know, we defended – and so we have positioned ourselves, and this has guided us to make this investment agreement – that the right to self-determination, the right to decide to advance towards independence, is inherent in the right to struggle for social rights. There can't be one thing without the other. And as we have this hemicle, which, for the election results, re-represents this independenceist majority, this majority that has to make possible these social rights, this rescue of the lives and of the planet, we have to make a legislature of conflict, confrontation and liberation. And it is in this line, that we have worked; in this line of conditioning that we will vote in favour of the investiture of Mr Pere Aragonès with this agreement. That it's a small deal, that I didn't forget. Much has been said about the outcome of this agreement. Exercise this democratic radicality, of direct democracy, the militancy of the CUP and all the organizations that form the candidacy of the CUP - A New Cycle to Win make a strategic decision deciding that it must, that is essential, this investiture, but does not endorse the content of the agreement, because it is an agreement of the least that can greatly improve. We have important things that we have positioned in the legislature you see, but they are a starting point to keep up with them. This agreement provides for social rescue measures, such as a pilot test for universal basic income, such as new legislative initiatives to guarantee the right to housing, the increase of the public park and the recovery of a minimum of 30_percent of Sareb's floors, deprivation of educational centres and reduction of primary and secondary education, increase of the assumption of primary care – 25_percent – and internalisation of 061 and health transport. It contemplates many measures that generate sovereignty and allow us to move towards a plural and planned economy: a public bank in which we are already working, the creation of a public energy and the recovery of hydropower with finished concessions, the creation of a council of Medi Ambient and new laws of biodiversity and energy transition; in the field of reindustrialisation, a plan of labor security to rescue small and medium-sized enterprises and a foundation for industrial reconstruction and the development of cooperatives. We could go on. They're tiny – they're tiny. We've also located the bleeding. We have not said haemorrhages because they are things that need to be resolved urgently. They need to act immediately, such as the suppression of police beatings by ethnic profile, such as the non-application of the law when you violate the right of demonstration, such as the suspension of hunger balls, the creation of a parliamentary committee for the debate on public order and the withdrawal of private accusations when there is no evidence of injury. This is a minimum agreement. Obviously, we could talk about everything we didn't get, but... especially what our attitude is in this legislature. Because, as we said, and we repeat, this is not a blank. This agreement already includes follow-up and control measures. Because it's obvious, and it doesn't escape anyone, that there are many times agreements that are taken by Parliament that don't follow. There has already been, and we have examples, above all, for what it does to the trinxement of the territory. No one can escape that this agreement, therefore, has not succeeded..., which we have been able to prove when the moratorium on incinerators was approved, which has not prevented them from posing in the market. What is not about the political agenda, as we did defend, a speculative macro-project; a speculative macro-project that the only one that does is to serve the interests of big business, profit-making interests that go through the world of people's salvation, such as Barcelona World. And we wanted it not, and we'll keep fighting because it's not. Because we are very clear that changes can be made, we can move them from our position to institutions. But, in reality, the popular force... And we saw very well the 1st and 3rd of October; and we have seen it in all the movement of defense for housing, in the reaction of solidarity networks before the pandemic of covid-19; and we have seen each territory that has been piled up for speculative, urban, poorly focused reindustrialisation projects, energy promotion policies that do not take into account territorial balance, that do not take into account the service of proximity policies, enterprises and economic sectors of proximity... We have seen that, always, where changes are moving, it is through popular mobilization, through organization, the strength of the people, the people that save the people. [[Greetings.]] The reforms that we demand, the remeasures that we have... the measures that we consider essential, necessary, girls in myths, will not solve the problems of this country. And when we insist on it, when we take the initiative and when we come to agreements, we don't do it to put on a medal like CUP, like CUP - A New Cycle to Win; we do it for the country. Because what we have defended – we have always said this – the programme we have defended..., our proposals are not party, they are of great country consensus. I, therefore, detail them, negotiate them or use them as the currency of change harms the majority of the citizenry. And, therefore, for us this is a strategic bet to move forward on this path, which begins well focused – a left-wing, independentist legislature – well focused on this attitude of confrontation, on this attitude of knowing that the dialect, which will not carry what we want, that it is being able to exercise the right of self-determination, in order to be able to defend it and implement it fully, will have to take another step to exercise it equally, making this maximum worth defending the rights still as it is, even if they do not grasp it, to the laws. Because, when it doesn't fit, it's the laws, the laws that need to be changed, and don't detail the rights. I repeat again: when the order of things is injustice, the taking of a new order is a deure de pas. And if the rights don't fit into the laws, the ones that need to change are the laws. And, therefore, it is essential that public policies are permeable to the impulse of social struggles, to the demands and alternatives: from the great battles that question the rule of 78 years later, the laws of housing and independence, that..., how have they advanced? Just look how this worked: they have advanced thanks to the mobilization on the street, thanks to the compromise of very many civic organizations, very many entities, lots of social movements. The defense of the territory, as well. But – important – when these initiates find themselves with an administration, with a parliament, with a government that listens, that is permeable, progresses twice. And that's what we want for this legislature: strength in the street and strength in the institution, because actually the left to the 78th rule and what we need to get forward in the national rights and social rights is finally done, that we get out of this closed circle, that we get out of this grove, that we get out of this melic looking at this melic and that we move forward to get these rights finally. I want to remember, in this sense, the act of doing a few days under the scenes of La Canadenca, a good symbol to remember how the workers struggled to get us straight from what we are still enjoying. That day, under the title of "Hope can't wait any longer, it showed a great vitality of popular enterprise, an indispensable alternative. And every day at the barrel, at the camp, at the village, people organize themselves. And what cannot be is that the people who organize themselves to fight, to defend these indispensable rights, are found to suffer insecurity when they are manifested because their right to protest, their right to defend alternatives, is mutilated, is persecuted by our country's own law enforcement forces. Therefore, it is also important that we have made this commitment to move forward in this term. And nothing, I made it clear to everyone that the CUP - A New Cycle to Win We've made a place for all the parties and the organized society, because what we need is this defense of the rights together. And this engagement that we have to retake together before a democratic state that does not want to listen and that does not want to pose a political solution, not just the resolution from the institution or only from the street, and not the resolution with strategies that are counterposing or resisting strength; we will do so with an approach that we define as conflict and democratic confrontation, since it is the only way to guarantee the material, civil and political rights of this country. Let me make it clear that only outside the autonomic mark – only outside the autonomic mark – can we develop the essential policies of transformation and social justice, of the rescue of life and the planet and of democratic freedom and radicality. That this is indestriably a joint struggle. And that's why we also make a call to the commons' companions, to the commons' space, who recover the hope of restraint of the 15-M rule and who know how to analyze, know how the challenge of independence added to the challenge that they defended has much more strength to make a real change in these structures that hold at these times the freedom and life of the Catalan people, of the peoples, of the working classes of the entire Iberian peninsula, of the whole of the State. The fights must go together, indestriable: social and national struggle, both from outside the institutions and from within. Independence is not an enemy of social advancements; the opposite is an ally. And fighting for social rights is not an enemy of independence, but the opposite: it is a common front. We also call for reflection and self-criticism in this sense and for them to contribute, to be a driving force of struggle and mobilization in the street, to be the spearhead of a new democratic struggle against the State to contribute to the exercise of the right of self-determination of the Catalan people, to contribute to the Parliament's exercise of its full sovereignty, to contribute to the unity of the Catalan countries in terms of language, culture, defence of national rights; to see that these are fundamental rights as important as the rights to a dignified life, as the rights to be able to exercise the right to housing, the right to energy, the right to protest, the right to have rights. Very briefly, to finish: where do we want to get to, then? We have explained it many times, that we understand that social rights and national rights must go together. We have proposed this legislature in two phases: a first phase until the 23rd, which we believe must deal with the shortcomings of this country and begin to place elements of social improvement, as well as pointing to the bases of the most profound changes, and, in the second phase, to deepen the debate and democratic confrontation. That means we're not in deep arms, but we're active. Whatever our position is, we'll be vigilant, we'll be constantly working because these agreements are material, because these agreements are moving forward, and because we can put in place all those that haven't fallen into negotiations to get here today with the dues made. And we regret that others do not have them, because we believe that this determination is urgently needed. But we, with a great deal of respect and with the same determination that we defend the minimum agreement that allows us to vote in favour – of the new representatives of the UPC - A New Cycle to Win – of the candidacy of Mr Aragonès, with the same conviction, with the same generosity and strength, we open..., we continue to say that we are more extensive, that we are willing to speak, to help, to facilitate, to put ourselves in service because this country project, of a country that does not separate social and national rights, from this country that is walking towards independence from the left, can be carried out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.43.0	You should be done, Mr. Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.44.0	Yeah. Therefore, we will do all this, as I said, fighting outside and inside. We come here to start a new cycle. We know that a country is only ready if it is free, if there is social justice. We know that things can be done in a very different way from how they have been done so far. And, after all, what we've come to do is hope wins the draw, that we have the strength and the strength to do this democratic debate together – road and institution – and to move forward definitively to make what the polls said on February 14th, that we want independence to go on and walk to the left, that it rescues socially and nationally, is done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.45.0	Then, to answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.46.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... Members of the People's Union Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Member of Parliament Sabater, in the first place, I would like to express my gratitude to your parliamentary group for the willingness to agree, for the joint work that we have been bringing to an end the last weeks, and, obviously, to thank them for their vote in favour of my investiture as President of the Generality of Catalonia. I also want this grace to be a grace directed at the joint militancy of the People's Unity Candidature and of the organizations that adhere to this Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning; of grace, too, and to convey that I am aware that we find ourselves before an agreement that has required a collective effort, of the two parts, of the Republican Left and of the People's Unity Candidature, and it is an agreement that must be managed from loyalty to the agreement made, the willingness to develop and apply it, and from generosity. We will, and it's my compromise. The welcome that Mrs Sabater has made, greeting a lot of people, I think it is a good statement of intent that we should address, that we should think about, when we take the decisions that are close to us as the Parliament of Catalonia and that are close to us as the government. Who are we going to, in the end? In the end, when we discuss in this Chamber, when we make proposals, when we make decisions..., there are no decisions that are blocked in this Parliament, because the decisions that we make affect the group of people in this diverse and plural country: young people, who see with difficulty, as explained in the morning, the future, that they have been drawn by light, many of them, and that has accentuated many of the worries that the young man of our country is suffering; the great people, who have seen the pandemic accentuated situations of loneliness, but also the victims of labor precariousness, of vital precariousness, that they have gone astray administratively or irregularly, and that it is a situation of failure to protect them, that they have failed to fulfil their duties in the future. That we are also heading to the whole country, in this diverse and plural country. A country that, like everyone else, is complex, even sometimes contradictory, but that can share and I am convinced that it shares a project of future based on equal opportunities, based on the balance of inequalities and with maximum freedom. And this morning I just referred to it. I would like to make some comments on elements of Mrs Sabater's intervention that also lead me to make some comments and to highlight some aspects of the political agreement that we have reached with the Popular Unity Candidate, and that I think it is good to be able to reschedule them. The first of these references I wanted to make is to one of the citations that the Member made in her intervention, placing, therefore, this quotation that she says: "The current model of capitalism is neither viable nor sustainable. I'll match it. I believe that there are people of very different political tradition, such as the CUP and the one I can represent myself or my Republican leftist companies in Catalonia; that the situation of permanent inequality..., that every time there has been a crisis some have speculated against capitalism, but that capitalism has developed a very remarkable resilience, and that, therefore, there is a need for broad alliances of progress, broad alliances of those that we want to place the rights and freedoms of citizenship and move from focusing on the benefit of a few to putting the focus on the rights for all and for all. One of my political referents, who I have always seen with envy for the ability to add various political and ideological paths and also for having made for his country an agenda of economic and social transformation that, despite being in opposition, has marked the history of this country, is the Front Ampli d'Uruguay; the Front Ampli d'Uruguay, which has been able to sum up people of many different paths, of people who can be on the anti-capitalist left and those whom we consider to be located in a social democracy that bets for decisive and profound reforms, which has been able to articulate a program of economic and social transformation under great referents like Tabaré Vázquez or Pepe Mujica. Cal, therefore, that alliances like these, obviously, today with an agreement that, as the Candidature of Popular Unity has said, is a minimum agreement, because I understand that it is a first step that we need to develop, that we need to work, that it is important that we can reproduce them if we also want to offer an alternative to the one that leads to inertia, in that inertia that leads us to an economic dynamic that itself generates inequality, and that is precisely collective intervention, through the strength of democratic institutions, that we can correct and that we are obliged to correct. Therefore, it is necessary to pass the focus of the political agenda..., draw from that idea of benefits for a few and place it on the right for all and for all, in the right collectius, as the right to self-determination. Also in this Parliament we have spoken in the last legislature – and we will talk about it during this very safe – not only of collective self-determination, but also of personal self-determination. And when we speak of "feminisms, in plurality, we also refer to this. But also focus on civil and political rights. Today the civil and political rights of many people have been violated because they are independent. But after these have also been violated..., and when a seal is broken in the field of rights, in the area of the violation of rights..., today may be the time of the independenceists, but tomorrow may be the time of any of the other people involved in transformation movements and that some classify as dissent. Therefore, the importance of civil and political rights. Of the civil and political rights also hundreds of thousands of Catalans who find themselves in a situation of administrative irregularity and who are unable to vote for the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. Because they tell us that, according to the law, they don't have papers, but they have life and they share it, they share it with us in our barrels, in our cities, in our towns. And, therefore, from this Parliament we must also legislate, agree and make assumptions and make decisions for the country's whole..., have or don't have papers, think as you think, have been born where you were born. I also need to focus on social and economic rights, some of which are extremely urgent. It has been placed in agreement with the CUP in the field of housing, in the field of this social rescue, which must also be done for those people, for those collectivities in which their precariousness, which had been almost a natural state – provoked, provoked by inequality – but it was often part of what we said..., that he always had, now it has become much worse because of the pandemic. And, therefore, put the urgency on it. But facing social and economic rights also requires profound transformations. I did not speak this morning in the realm of welfare, but also in the realm of a product model that we all agree is to be brought up to date, and that is to be brought up to date in terms of prosperity and in terms of welfare. They didn't speak: the CUP spoke, the Junts representative spoke, the PSC deputy spoke, I spoke myself. And, therefore, we have – and they will also talk about it, I believe, the groups, I am not convinced, that they come later, especially In Comú Pode – the need also of the transformation of this model produced in order to be able to ensure that they move towards a shared prosperity. I also want to thank the CUP for its positive look. We can focus on what's different, what's there, what's obvious, because, if not, we'd be part of the same organization, and I have to confess, now that we're in the family, that even sometimes I don't match my political organization to a hundred. Obviously, because it is formed by various people and because, as it is extensive, there are very different people. What makes us strong is the deal. I think that happens to us every year, to everyone, with their organization, if these are democratic and plural. What do I mean by that? That I think the political differences we could subrate. Here there are two ways to focus on the future that awaits us: focus on what makes us different or focus on what we have in common. I think that with the UPC we have found the way to focus on what we have in common, and from here on, go polishing the differences. The deal has that virtue. Necessarily it is an agreement of minimums, because we have come from trajectories that many times have passed in parallel, but with distance. And, therefore, it had to be of the least, of the least that are ambitious, obviously. And, therefore, I believe that this agreement opens the door to a parliamentary term of social transformation, of transformation of the country and of decisive progress in rights. An agreement that we need to improve, an agreement that will also answer questions that we may not have raised because we have not found the point of understanding, or questions that have not been raised and that have not been included, and that we will have on the table in a surprising way, because the world is changing and constantly putting us back. When we started last year's legislature, no one imagined that we would be in a pandemic situation that would force us to respond and be able to get out of it. And, therefore, it will be an agreement that... I'm aware that it's not a white check. It's a deal that needs to get better, that needs to start working. There are aspects that we can start working without expecting an investiture, such as, for example, the working groups that are included in it; we can start doing so now, as well as the continuity of diverse working groups in sectoral areas that we have been doing. I think it's a political program shared in position, as I say, and transformation, that focuses on everyday battles, that translates the principles and ideals that we share into this day-to-day transformation, transformations and daily battles that intersect with many different inequalities, but force us to face it together. It is a program, bearing the phrase of Jordi Cuixart, "of shared struggles. I would like to focus on some of the aspects..., in two: the need to recover part of the public administrations a protagonist role in which is the economic sphere. I made reference to my intervention this morning recalling the idea of being an entrepreneur of the economist Mariana Mazzucato, and we can find many other forms. I don't think a progressive and left-wing view can just leave the essential benefits of our lives in the hands of the market. Cal get in there. There are public operators that can correct the inequalities caused by the market and that can also generate shared prosperity, this idea of the generation of public value. In fact, there are conservative political traditions under the appearance of liberals who have told us that there should be no intervention on the market, that there should be no public intervention on the market, it should not be regulated. In itself, this responds to a decision, it also responds to a way of intervening that is to take a step back. And we believe that the public sector, where it is a collective, where it is shared, must take a step forward and must also be the protagonist of the economic changes that our production system needs. And in this pandemic, it has been shown that, in a very complex situation, not only have public services been put in value as essential, it has not only emerged as essential to what had been invisible to the eyes of communication media and to the eyes of the debates in this Parliament..., they have been viewed as essential work places that had not been sufficiently valued, and I think this is important. But not only that, but also that it has been seen that the continuity of a productive economy that can change to generate shared well-being needs accompanying, intervention and public support, and that this must change, too, of shared prosperity, of responsibility to the country of the economic environment. And I end up with an element of the necessary resolution of the political conflict. Here we have different approaches on paths that do not fall apart and in which we have reached an agreement that allows to conjugate the bet that from the Republican Left we defend to force this negotiation with the political plans of the CUP, the need to take a step forward and prepare ourselves. But we share the key to this conflict resolution, regardless of how we approach it. And as we share it, and what is shared is better, I want to put it in value: the defense of amnesty, the defense of the exercise of the right to self-determination. In other words, which you may not say the same but meaning the same can be an invitation to join other people: the freedom of political prisoners and prisoners, the freedom and freedom of return from exiles and exiles, and a reference for deciding the future of our country. They are ways that do not erupt, and I think that the value of that shared we have been able to put it where it touches and to overcome what obviously, therefore, separates, and what obviously makes different political plans for us. I thank the vote in favour of the Members and the Members of the People's Unity Candidature. I pledge to be faithful to the agreement signed, to develop it, to follow it working and to make this political program of social and economic transformation, this political program of rights and freedoms, the axis of my government and of this legislature. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.47.0	Next is the deputy Laia Estrada, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win. Thank you. [[Pause.]] For fifteen-minute space.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, we want above all that you, candidate Aragonès, that the assembly of deputies and deputies of the Republican Left, that the assembly of deputies and deputies of the Parliament and that the assembly of the country is very clear on what constitutes the agreement that we have reached. Because, indeed, there is a sequence of programmatic points that you have been thinking about, that the Pain has also summed up, but there is also another window, which explained before the Pain, which is the focus of the legislature, an approach of democratic confrontation, of rupture. Because we understand that, in fact, this is the only way to be able to deploy the program that we have granted: from disobedience and confrontation with this Spanish state rule, 78 rule, lapses and authoritarian; disobedience to the state and obedience to the great consensus of the country; obedience to compliment those measures that the country really needs. Because, in fact, we, if anything we think we have been able to learn from the country, precisely, is that the only way forward, both in our national liberation process and in the conquest of social rights, is from the challenge of this regime, from the break with this regime and from civil, political disobedience. We have repeatedly found that the longings, the social aspirations of our country, of our people, are not fit, they have no bearing on this 78th rule. We have found that we must continually suffer the interferences of the State in order to fall any kind of advent, any kind of progress in social key, in environmental defence key, in gender equality key. We have about a few laws with a least progressive content that have been systematically dropped. And, therefore, we understand that the social programme that our country needs can only be developed on the basis of our project of independence. There's no cabuda, in this 78th rule; there's no cabuda, in the Marque of the Spanish State. And when we talk about the fact that only from independence can we deploy the social project that our country needs, we also want to remember that we do not believe that it is from the dialog table that we can get this independence to work, not because we do not want to debate, dialogue, negotiate, but because the other band are not willing to do it and there is no more interest in putting down a pastry, nor can we say that they do not even have the pastry. For us, this State, which is deeply undemocratic, must be challenged from the very first moment in order to defend precisely those agreements that we have gathered in the programme: agreements on environmental matters, on housing matters, on matters of salvation, on matters of energy poverty, etc. The CUP is in a hurry. Certainly, the CUP is in a hurry. We are in a hurry to resolve the emergencies and needs of this country, which are very many. We're in a hurry to start clearing out all the accumulated and going-on patience with this multiple crisis scene and getting in the way. And the only way forward, we said, is by leaving the limits that impose autonomy on us for the perpetuation of the 78th rule. The history of the conquest of rights and freedoms is written with rupture, with struggle, with disobedience, and so is how we will make progress in our national liberation project, and so is how we will make progress in our project of better living conditions for the majority of the population. And this is the only way to ensure that this new economic and brutal crisis that we already have about does not come back to life in the midst of the popular classes. We have heard it, we have heard it, that they do not want this crisis to fall on the most vulnerable, on the most vulnerable. The only way this crisis doesn't fall into the popular classes is to bring it back to the richest, who have been accumulating at the length of these years at the cost of impoverishing and impoverishing and impoverishing most of the population. The PSC... was angry; we saw him, Mr. Illa, angry, nervous. Mr. Illa has practically made a spokesman for the employer, for the rich, for the conjunction of all the stages that conform to the apparatus of the Spanish State. And you know what? That's good. They do well to be nervous, you and the whole rule, and the whole apparatus of the Spanish State. It's good to be nervous. Do it like that, make it trembling. If they weren't nervous, they wouldn't have needed to orchestrate the whole magical campaign of communication, obviously counting on the complicity of the great Spanish media, which always do them the brute work, together with the judicial and police mountains. He would not have had the need to orchestrate a whole mountain of por against the possible alliances of independence. If they were not nervous, they would not be in this need of criminalizing a formation such as the Candidature of Popular Unity, which precisely raises common sense questions, such as, for example, that housing is not a good market – as Mr. Ábalos defends – but is a right. And why be a right [[applause]] We need to expropriate emptied floors precisely in the hands of great tenors. That's common sense. It's common sense that while there are people without a home, there are a lot of people without a home. That's what we're doing here. And the same in the field of energy, because we defend the net energies, but the net policies, too. This is what we come to do in the field of salvation. Speak to you..., speak to the PSC of salvation; but if the first ones who began to quarter and privatize salvation were you, at the time of the tripartite. We don't give lessons. This is what we come to do with the job, to improve the working conditions, because you are incapable of repealing the labor reform, which you promised when you were in opposition. And, in short, we came here to prevent it from continuing to speculate with our lives. And, in this sense, Mr Aragones, it is not that we say that we are not only in the hands of the market those goods which we consider essential; it is that we want to get out of the market urps where we believe that they are essential, essential rights. Therefore, we, in this legislature, do not come to make things do better than before, but better, but rather to do a task to the whole; to challenge a rule that we consider corrupt and in a state of putrefaction. We come to subvert the prevailing order. And this legislature, from our point of view, must be a legislature to move forward, to take back what we left in myths in 2017 – which before Congressman Batet, Mr Batet remembered – all that we left in myths. But from our point of view, moving forward to what we did not do correctly implies, from a band, starting from the premise that exercising sovereignty does not mean exercising it in order to sell in the country to the big companies of the IBEX 35, which is something that we have seen at the length of the last legislature, but rather that it means starting to put under public control the strategic sectors, when we called'state structures' and at the end, from this agreement that we reached with the Republican Left, we contemplate, as a public banking clause, as a public energy clause... Public pharmaceuticals could not have been, it fell from the agreement; we did not give up. In short, for us, if we want to go beyond what we were able to get in 2017, we need to learn from past mistakes. And when we talk about past mistakes, we also have to remember what happened on October 3rd, when, on the eve of the greatest general wave of the past time, it was not proclaimed the republic, as we had granted to be done in the next two days after the referendum – this was granted – we have to remember why on October 10th the republic was suspended at the head of the seven-seconds. All this we need to remember, and we also need to learn from these mistakes. And let's also, Mr. Batet, tell him that it's not up to the CUP, that Jordi Turull années to the prison. It doesn't depend on the fact that the CUP gave him the presidency, that you went to prison. No, that wasn't in our hands, unfortunately. Just like it wasn't in our hands that we took the rest of the government. Just as it wasn't in our hands that we had also taken the rest of the companies that had to be exiled. The fact that it was later in the hands of the Generality is that it no longer retaliates independenceists, for example, that they may be coming to prison in a short time, because they are dealing precisely with particular accusations of the Generality. Independenceists, exactly. [[Greetings.]] In any case, we think that we can learn all of the past mistakes and that we all have to make self-criticism, and that what it's all about is looking forward. And, in this sense, we ask them, let us ask them, more quickly, to tell us that they do not like this agreement, because we have not had the opportunity of our sister with you because they answer us the proposals that we have made in social matters – we have provided them with a document that they have not yet returned to us – as we have only been able to see a couple of times to talk about the full independence route and we seem to be insufficient, but we ask them that all those who said it could also get to the CUP. Because we understand that, beyond the rush to form a government or not, we insist, there is a rush to resolve the emergencies that this country has, there is a rush to advance our process of self-determination. I can make suns in it. And to the companies of the commons, therefore, we also ask them if they have any formula for being able to solve this continuous situation in which we find ourselves, which systematically falls into the laws with a least progressive content. With what? If you don't have the opportunity in Madrid either, you don't have the capacity to legislate in favor of the majority of the population, because your governing partners don't leave them either, and it turns out that here we are totally limited by the state's interferences, we ask you what their formula is to really improve the material living conditions of the majority of the population. Our bet is to exercise self-determination, because we understand that only from the independence of our country can we deploy the social program that this country needs. And we're asking them to leave. Basically, because there's no one left here, and more so because despite the fact that you always say that you don't want to be on the side of the Catalan right, it turns out that whoever you consider the Catalan right approves more progressive laws than your governing partners in Madrid can do. So we think they have contradictions of respect. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm done. We are fully aware, too, that... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Then they say they're not nervous... [[Rialles and some applause.]] I'm done. We trust that Esquerra Republicana will complete this agreement, that Together also the best, that better the agreement, that we make clamps to improve what they think is not enough. And yet, let us make it clear that we have always manifested our scepticism about putting all confidence in institutions alone. For us institutions have a limited margin of manoeuvre, and therefore it is not enough. And from here we call on the people, on the country, to organize themselves, because we need to re-align what's going on in Parliament to defend this better day-to-day of the majority of the people with whom it's going. And, therefore, the 14th of February didn't end. We need organization, we need combative, because really all those who do not believe in the people are the ones who will fail, said Next, because only the people are the ones who make the great renovations feasible. And, in this sense, we have shown that the great acts of sovereignty – and I finish now, President – the great conquests that have taken place in our country, have been when the people have organized themselves, when the people have come out without complexes on the road and have fought for those questions that are elementary. And from here, then, we launch this call for people to organize themselves in their work places, to organize themselves in their barrels, to organize themselves in the educational centers, because this legislature really is a legislature to advance and conquer everything we need. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.49.0	Then there's the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.50.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... very briefly. Mrs Estrada, from the point of view of the CUP, was not only her political programme, but she has pointed out some aspects of the agreement which I believe was important and necessary that she is possessed on the table. I want to reiterate my commitment not only to compliment the agreement, but to work on the margins of the best there is, to be able to develop it. It has to be..., as you have put it, it is a minimum agreement; therefore, it has to be the first of the most agreements to come. An agreement that, obviously, represents a challenge of profound transformation of the country. The path of defence of rights has never been an easy one, and therefore we know that we will find ourselves difficult, but I am convinced that with the very way we have done so far, that we have done together, anticipated in this investment debate, what we can do from then on will give us the strength to overcome these difficulties. And I also end up with a shared reflection, or that I consider to be shared, with which Congresswoman Estrada had now given. The transformation that we want for the country – that we want a free, independent, just, green, feminist country – is a transformation that can't only make the institutions, that we can't only make the 135 deputies of this chamber – would be superb on our part to think that such a profound transformation can only make within these four pairs – but we have to do it with the country's conjunction. And that's not just why it's important to mobilize the citizenry, but also the mobilization that translates into shared empowerment projects, empowerment projects in the barrels, in the cities, in many social collections, that we need to be able to accompany and that we need to be inspired by the policies that we need to carry out. In this sense, that in this Parliament there are all the debates, let's hear all the voices, let's bring in the most transformative projects. And I think the chord is a good starting point for it to be like this. Many thanks again for your vote in favour of the investiture. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.51.0	Okay. As the MP of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win will not use the counter-replicating minutes, we will continue to do a ten-minute recess at the candidate's request. Let's get back to finding two sets of squares. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.52.0	Ladies and gentlemen, please, if you can take your seats... [[Long break.]] The words "Jessica Albiach", president of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem, are followed. When you want, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.53.0	Well, good afternoon; good afternoon to all and all. As this is the first intervention of this legislature, I would like to take advantage of it to wish us all and all good work to be at the height of the people and not to forget why we are here, which, in short, I believe is as basic as being useful to the citizenry and, despite all the differences that we have between ourselves, to find common places, to be able to reach agreements, to weave alliances, beyond our political spaces. I wanted to start with this point and I wanted to start with another one. And today we have seen how the speech of the extreme right has already entered here, a speech where fever is criminalized, where it has served with the strongest. And I think it's also good news that, in all our differences, so we've been able to work out an agreement, a minimum agreement, so as not to let go of his speech of hate. [[applause]] and to defend a democratic and different Catalonia as a referent. I think it's important not to tolerate Islamophobic claims, because in the end the Muslim community is ours, it's our veins, which we are also proud of, which are also rising up and building Catalonia. And neither can we allow the smallest strangers to be treated as criminals, instead of putting the focus on a system that is unjust, that is cruel, in a system that is failing and that, moreover, has migration policies that are all cruel. So I wanted to start with these points. That said, to put the focus back on the debate we have today and also to think about what is voting today. Because today is not voting the agreement of the CUP with the Republican Left. Mr. Pere Aragonès is not voting today as President of the Generality with a government formula we don't know. Today what is voted – today – is Mr Pere Aragonès as a candidate, as President of the Generality, with a formula that is: Left Republican, with Juntes per Catalunya and with the support of the CUP. That is to say, this is what is voted on today: the Republican Left proposal to repeat the government with Junts for Catalonia; more than the same. That is to say, in a legislature that is decisive – and that I am not just saying it, that candidate Aragonès has also said it – a legislature that we do not just have to manage, but that we have to transform – and that is his words, Mr Aragonès – where we are playing the future of our own generations, where we cannot undermine the confidence of the people and where we all have to undertake changes and transformations without leaving anyone behind, you have seen that today we are going to insist on more than this: in the same formula that has already failed; he wants to insist on a legislature that we know will have the obsolescence scheduled, and also – I mean, because it is important and it seems difficult –, as it has been a political humiliation exercise of Junts for Catalonia is head of the Republic. We've been listening to them. Today you will not be invested with Juntes' votes for Catalonia, even though they are willing to do so from an exercise of responsibility. They're using humiliation as a way to negotiate. That's what we're living here today. [[Greetings.]] Actually, it's not just that you're not going to go out with your votes. He's been asked not to be present at the investiture. And they're dealing with a political responsibility exercise, when it's actually a political humiliation exercise. And I find that it's gravity – I find it's gravity – because it supposes to reproduce the inertias, dynamics and stings that we've seen that have been flushing all these years and that are preventing the Government of the Generality from putting all its energies into solving the problems and concerns of the citizenry. And we ask ourselves until when. Until the Republican Left is willing to support these attitudes. As long as they're willing to leave the Government of the Generality on board, which is working, for a pact that we know will sooner or later fail, because we've already seen it and because nothing has changed. Mirin, said the Joan Tardà, on March 9th: "Another government with Junts and Esquerra would be a failure and a Vietnam daily. Ms. Elsa Artadi said on March 22nd: "We do not want the government to follow a Vietnam Diari. Jordi Sánchez said on March 23rd, three days ago: "Let the Palau of the Generality not be a Vietnam. And Mr. Batet also said today; he said he didn't want another Vietnam. And I'm starting to think that more than a Vietnam – because in the end in Vietnam, unfortunately, they ended up winning the good ones – I have the feeling that they're flushing us, that they're sending us to an Iraq, where everything was destroyed. And I'd really like it if it wasn't like that, but it's starting to be a self-fulfilling prophecy. And for me one of the great questions I ask is: what changed because this time this Junts formula for Catalonia and the Republican Left works? What's the difference? What's changed so you don't fail again? What's the point of not being blocked again? What's there to start solving people's problems? Because we already see how it's starting. And I want to insist, we can't play again, because the country can't play anymore. And you have also done so, and I also want to insist: we are in the midst of a health crisis without precedent, at the gates– and hope not, but we are seeing the rest of European countries– of which one could be a fourth on; with the mental salvation of the citizenry every time most affected– because of the vital uncertainty, because of anguish, because of economic problems, because of the reduction of social interaction– ; with a legislature that begins, as I say, through this brutal social and economic crisis; with inequality, which is breaking us as the country, when, moreover, the social majority were not recovered from the crisis or from the estafa of 2008; with more than a million people who have died– you have also said today –; with a 15_per-cent man of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor, of the poor. With an economic model that is unjust, cruel, ineffective, based on extraction and exploitation of the planet's resources, which brings us to the eco-social collapse. They're warning us. We need urgent responses and immediate action. With a young woman who is being cut off: she is forbidding the right of emancipation, of having a decent rest, of having a decent work. Some young people who, many times, don't know another way to live that doesn't follow the crisis, because we wear two in two years. With an extreme right – we have seen it – racist, fetishist, that gives from its double morality criminalizes the poor, the migrant, the women, the LGTBI collection and everyone who does not follow the Spanish of The Regent. We are also beginning a legislature that paints the harsh, brutal consequences of the judicialization of politics, with prisoners and political prisoners, with exiled people, with thousands of lawsuits. And I finish, because I could go on, but I don't want to leave the European Union. The European Union is now playing its credibility: for the management of cows, which is not good, there is a problem with the management of cows; for the treatment of all people who are fleeing from fame, from war, from misery, from wars, who see how many people die offending the Mediterranean daily, and also by how they end up conditioning and pushing the states for what they do to the European Fund. Therefore, in the face of this whole situation, in the face of a legislature that is decisive, you want to bring us back more than that, which we know has not worked. And I really don't understand why. Why are they doing this? The country doesn't deserve it. People don't deserve it. And we have pockets that are unstoppable, that are urgent. There are many, I will quote four. The first is the vaccination process, to protect health, physical life, but also the mind, because we need to recover economic activity, social interaction. The world of culture has the power, once and for all, to act with calmness, with normality, to recover. We have, on the other hand, the European foundations. I can manage them with clarity and intelligence to transform an economic model that we see is not working, I said before. We need this green, fair, feminist transformation, which you also mentioned, Mr Aragones. But we have a real danger: it's that in the end they are still used for those who don't want you to change. We have the greenwashing brush so famous. Some just want to perpetuate this model. What do we do to avoid these insecurities? I think there are two tools, two mechanisms that are important. For one thing, social concertation; but it has to be extensive, we can't keep the usual. They've always been fine, but we need to get out of the way, and we need players: members of the feminist economy, of the social and solidary economy, of the community economy. And we also need an economic planning agency. Because it's not just worth thinking about, we need to start thinking about god at least in 15 years. It's just, if we don't, we're not going anywhere. In the third place, a social sham plan to fight poverty and inequality. I know you mentioned him, too. There began to be a lot of measures there, and in the end we had EUR 700 million. You don't know very well how these 700_million euros you said would be distributed. And there's one thing missing that you said, and for us it's very important: the gender perspective. You've let it go, in this sense. And lastly, we also need to activate a real dialogue and negotiation, with confidence from both sides, to resolve the political conflict. And here I am fully aware that this is not just about the Catalan government. I know. Political will on both sides of the table. I can tell you, for our part it is. But, of course, when I say for our part I am referring to Comú Pode and to Unidad Pode. In this case, I would never speak by mouth of other forces. But I'm telling you, for our part, this political will, and you know it. So, there's a lot of reps. I insist, we are before this legislature, which is decisive, and you will bring us back to the fracs and the internal struggles. And if anyone had any doubts, I think they're clear today. Because, besides, it's not just today's thing, it's not just a matter of this legislature. Since the elections were held on the 14th of February until now, we have seen that you were talking about the wider way, but you have ended up with the plurality of the Bureau and with Laura Borrás as President of the Parliament. You have put Laura Borràs as President of Parliament, after listening to them say that a person in the circumstances of Laura Borràs could never be a member of the Lists of Republican Left or a Member for Republican Left. [[Some applause.]] You're running out of negotiations until the last day. And what are they talking about? Because we have been listening to people talking about fighting for European foundations, we have not been listening to them fighting for the vaccination process, not for the social welfare plan, but for the role that the Council of the Republic has to play. This followed the great discussion that we have seen here today and that we are seeing these days in the communication media. Therefore, you are forcing until you limit the time and patience of the people. And then there's, like, some threats of no investment and petitions not to go to a bad investment. Looks like some people are in a hurry. It's not like we're in a hurry anymore, it's because people are in a hurry because they're patenting. So you know how to start. And it's nothing again. And I'll tell you the same phrase that I've said in the last legislature so many times: every time you go hand in hand – I don't know if I say hand in hand or rapeseed – we see that you go late and badly. And so, and before this government and this proposal that you make of a legislature that will once again have its obsolescence programmed, we want to insist that there is an alternative. Because, the other day, we could read an article from Esther Vera to ARA, obviously, saying, "In private, what do they say? So it'll be the same with a management page. This is what you yourselves recognize in private, "the same with a management page. I think it's even an optimistic statement. Not because you don't believe in your good will, Mr. Aragonès, but because the word you bring is so full, it weighs so much, it has so many toilets, so many punyaladas, as some say, so many mistrusts, as you said, that it is impossible to look to the future. Not out of unwillingness, but because they can't walk because they weigh the motxilla too much. It would be a government trapped in logics of the past that would have serious difficulties to look to the future. I insist, it wasn't inevitable, but party intruders end up preventing the country from moving forward. And I'm not just talking about you, I want to open the focus, too. And I want to talk about the Socialist Party of Catalonia. They have won – they have won – but they cannot form a parliamentary majority enough to make government. It's a PSC that's a long way from Pasqual Maragall's PSC. They are unable to reach agreement with other political forces. And why? So, humbly, we think it's because it's unclear what its policy is with regard to Catalonia, mainly on national and anti-repressive soil. It's about the day and it's about who he's talking about. And it seems that you flush the little ones and look at the Spanish right and the inquests. And I would say to them – and above all to Mr. Illa I would say to him – that we should move forward in negotiation and in dialogue; that we should have a compass and a fixed course to get to the proper port; that we should complete – complete – the promises and also the announcements. And I'm not going to talk to him about the law of loguers that I chased him so much during the campaign and that we see that you're blocking, it's that I could also talk to him about the reform of the Criminal Code. Today, again, we listened to him talk about backstage. And the big question: who do they want to back down with? - Who do they want to back out with? Because we see that they are unable to retreat with any other party in this Parliament. Who do they want to back out with? Therefore, once again, we see a victory that is not needed to be in government and not to have a clear policy. And, obviously, here you go back to Republican Left and back to Mr. Aragonès. I have to tell you, when you won the election in the Independence bloc, I was glad. And I thought it was good news for the country, that you were first in the independence bloc. I think it was good news for the country. But it is showing me, with what they are doing, with these negotiations, with their interventions, that we cannot expect any substantial change, because they want to repeat the same. We see that they want to go back from the hand of Juntes to Catalonia for so much that today they are humiliating them, so much that they want to do so on time and so much that they want to degrade the presidency of the Generality and our institutions want to build a bicephaly with the Council of the Republic. Because that's what they're doing. Therefore, they do not only insist on "how worse, better, they are not only degrading our self-government, but, more..., and I also want to insist, you have spoken today a few times of a people's sun; I would say that even three times in your first intervention you have said it. So I have to say: a people's sun is incompatible with Juntes per Catalunya. And forgive me, but that's the way it is. And they're also trying to keep a government running in the face of a crisis that's unprecedented in health, economic and social terms. And not only that, they're doing it because they're stalling for what to do with the Council for the Republic, which I want to remember is a private entity. That's what's going on here today. Forty days of elections have passed, carry you six months with a functioning government and, for the time being, what we see is more than the same: more blocking and a motxilla than every time is bigger and only a bet for a formula that we already know has failed. I don't understand. The other day, in the investiture speech of Mrs. Borrás as Speaker of Parliament, denied Mr. Roger Torrent, he did not mention it a single time. And today together for Catalonia is doing exactly the same with you, Mr. Aragones. And that, I insist, while the country is patenting and we are in a situation of extreme need. And I'll just give him some data that I know perfectly well that you know, but I think it's important to keep them present. There is a reduction in the average income of metropolitan lars between 7 and 8_per_cent in 2020. There is more inequality of returns; we see it in the Gini coefficient of the year 2020, is between 0.329 or 0.331. There is a backlash of about fifteen years in terms of social choice; we are worse than 95 and much worse than 2006. There are more people now at risk of poverty, about 150,000 more people, and that's up to 800,000; but of the people who are at risk of poverty, there are still more than those who are at risk of severe poverty: 220,000. One child is at risk of vulnerability. And there's a 15_per_cent of the population that spends more than 40_per_cent on paying the logger. Therefore, what we need here is a strong government, a cohesive government, a government that puts up for social transformation, green and feminist, and that also has a clear full route on the national issue, without putting ourselves in danger and without getting us as small as the country. And that's why I want to insist: there's an alternative, we're still in time, there's nothing left. And I'm telling him that with us, tomorrow, after the frailties of this investiture, there would be government. So I think it's important that they think about it. A government, I insist, of social transformation, green and feminist, that truly believes in the dialogue, with loyalty between the partners, and above all with loyalty to a government program. That's what we can offer. And I am convinced that together we can face the great challenges we have as a country. And I want to make a point, too. We know that it will not be easy, we know that there would be criticism from all sides, we know that they will tell them traitors, but they will also have to ask themselves: is it not that they tell them since they are traitors? Is it that the same people you want to deal with sometimes don't treat them as if you were traitors? Therefore, I can only tell them that in the end time puts everything in its place. And in the last block, after talking about who, I want to talk about content, I want to talk about what. And I want to refer to the agreement reached for the Republican Left and the UPC, but also to the measures that you highlighted today in your intervention. For what he agrees between the two parties, I think that first he must see..., he must take care because he must see how he ends up, because we know that here he has not participated together for Catalonia, that he is the partner you are waiting for. Therefore, let us see how this agreement ends at last. I say to him that we recognize that there are proposals that are interesting, but we also see that it is an unequal document, with some key themes that are not collected. They have also commented before, the deputies of the CUP, that there were some fears that they were not treated, that this was a matter of minimums and that it would be better to go there. Therefore, we too take it with caution. As I say, there are interesting elements, but there are some issues that we believe are essential in this context of multiple crises that are not collected. For what it does to the national question, I must say that it has surprised us with a certain ambiguity. It can be..., and you also said it, "It is certainly because," he said, "the approaches are diverse. I think they've tried to go to a small question here. Yes, I would say that, beyond amnesty and self-determination, that they are clear, is to say, or what you yourself said was "freedom and reference, yes, it is true that we have failed to defend self-government, and above all to say what is happening in the meantime. Is that until there's a reference or until we exercise the right of self-determination, until there's freedom, as we do? How are we doing? We believe that competitive armor is important here. We also find that there is a lack of clarity about who wants to follow the role of the Generality in some strategic issues, such as, for example, the reform of the financing system. We don't know if you'd ever leave the chair empty again in this negotiation. You're important. For us, it's important. And we also see how they put the expiration date on the dial. And we're wondering what would happen next. We hope the dialog works, but it's also important to know what would happen, if not. And secondly, in relation to the social issue, as I say, there are proposals that we consider to be interesting. In fact, some, like, for example, the public energy operator..., is already on the march in the city of Barcelona. You are also talking about the basic income pilot program, the defence of the right to housing. We like it. Besides, it's concrete, it's supposed to be. But there are other aspects that are either not in the document, or you haven't mentioned them, or, well, you've stayed in a nice statement of intent. For what you do on the subject of salvation, I must say that I was surprised that you spoke of mental salvation – I said earlier – included it in the social welfare plan and included it in these 700_million euros, with a lot of measures, and we really don't know the names of professionals or specialized units or definite assumptions. He also spoke of what we call the return plan for white bats, that is to say, to return all those professionals who have left due to precarious working conditions, eh? We'd like to know how many professionals we're talking about. What does it mean to improve the working conditions of professionals? Because here too, well, we have to go with the fact that we don't cheat. We also know that the Catalan health system – sociovergent, certainly – is a gurigall; there it is all barred: the public, the private, the concerted, the merchant. The document is about internalizing, but we don't know what or when. In the same way, you do not say anything about extending the portfolio of services: oral greetings, which you know is approved in Parliament; physiotherapy, not in other words. And no reference to the guarantee of the right to abhorrence. There are territories in Catalonia – and I come to Cape Terres de Lleida, Pirineu and Aran – where this right is not guaranteed under conditions of equality – this is important. On the rest of the trunk side of the welfare state and public servants, we see that he has spoken very little concretely about dependence and great people. There is no model repositioning to promote active aging. For what he does in education, we ask ourselves what happens to the plant decree and the address decree. Let's cut down once and for all the talk, which was the biggest one that went through Convergence, with Mrs. Irene Rigau, which was the extra-curricular hour load to the teachers? Do we reduce primary and secondary school hours? Shall we extend the feeding alleys? Do we have any specific plan that truly works, because the strategy against early school leaving is not working? And we haven't seen a brave bet for the single race. Because it's not about rescuing the concert that has enrollment problems or that has financing problems, which is actually what you propose and which makes us suspect that this is a landing ground for Junts for Catalonia. In social terms, we see that there is no agreement on the updating of the service portfolio or the tariffs, which we approved in 2020 – there was no agreement before, but it is true that it has to go further – nor increase public places. We see..., and on this subject I want to hold a little more because we see that there is an important void. Much has been said about ecology, much has been said about the fight against climate change, but we see how the government's grey agenda is perpetual, because there are no courageous measures. And now I'm gonna go over it a little bit. We live in an official state of climate emergency, but here, really, of change, of model transformation, in a little bit. It is maintained the Hard Rock, the Barcelona World, the Terramar motorway, all the infrastructures of the previous government: perlongation of the C-32 between Blanes and Lloret, the variants of the gironine comarques. Well, actually, it's a document that Mr. Damia Calvet I think I'd be happy to sign in this sense. [[some applause]] , because he does not reverse the proposals he wanted to put forward, and, therefore, which correspond to his economic and country model. For another band, we do not see any concrete measure of deployment and completion of 16/2017, of the Climate Change Law: CO2 reduction commitment,... And on... yes, I have to admit that you talked about renewable energies. I want to put in value that has spoken of the cent_per_cent of renewable energy in 2050. Well, that's fine. This is also what the central government is proposing. We wanted it to be 2040, and in fact, that's what we're wearing. And, to finish this issue, we also find two elements missing that are central to the fight against climate change. First, prohibition of a used_sol_plastics. You yourself, Esquerra Republicana, voted against this proposal during the last parliamentary term – because we introduced it to us, we know that. Therefore, it would be important to move forward in this sense – other territories are already making it. And, lastly, reform in depth of the mobility system, with clear bet, obviously, for public transport. I want to talk about industry too. You have spelled out the National Pact for Industry – we like it. We also want a national pact for industry. But two observations. The first: we need to review what happened with the 2017 pact. Assess results, compromise, this time yes, resources, add new follow-up indicators and, above all, anticipate and plan. And, second place, public leadership. Why am I saying that? We see the danger of displacement that is getting worse – Nissan, Bosch, Italco – and what do we have? We have an Industry Advisor in office who hasn't met Nissan's workers. If it wasn't yesterday, you haven't met Nissan's workers yet. Clearly, we have the biggest lock of an industrial factory in Catalonia many years ago, and we have a counselor – who wants you to follow his partner – who has not met Nissan's workers, who are in a process, count back, to try to give him a way out, to see who are the projects they are applying for, and to see how materiality and concrete this is from here to the end of the year. Therefore, it seems incredible to me that we have an industrial advisor who has not met with Nissan's workers and workers. Therefore, what we need in industry is broad dialogue and social concertation, it's an economic planning organization, it's training, it's research and it's technological infrastructure to run the industry and promote new investments. And last but not least, you talked about Stiglitz. You know what Stiglitz thinks of taxation, and I want to talk about taxation, too. Because for us it is a matter of justice, of redistribution of wealth and of supporting public services. So, what do we want? As a minimum – as a minimum – we approved 2020. And you say as a matter of fact because you have come to us that you, together for Catalonia and the Republican Left, would be willing to give up before the big telecommunications companies, who know that you are pressing to end this tax. We know they're pushing you because they're pushing us, not because we have telepathy. Therefore, we know the pressures that are coming from telecommunications, and I say that it does not give in. Not only that, but we think that we must continue to advance in green taxation, that we must deploy once and for all; that we must go further in the empty floor tax, and that we must adjust the taxation of the game sector, which we know is the landing ground for the Barcelona World.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.54.0	Mrs. Albiach, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.55.0	Yeah, I'm done. We need a real transformation program for Catalonia. I know we can do it together, I know we can go there more. There is an alternative without toilets, without mistrust, without punches; an alternative in the positive, with leiiness and of the left. And you quoted Joan Fuster; he will allow me to also quote, and more sense of Sweden. And I would like to end with a quote from him: "Always demand the right to change your mind, it is the first to deny you your enemies. Therefore, Mr. Aragones, I would like to see you here on Tuesday, that you were invested as president and that we formed a government of folded lefts. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.56.0	To answer, has the word Lord Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.57.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Albiach and Members of the House of Commons, I believe that in their intervention they have put different arguments on the table, some of which they share and others they do not. But I want to start with a recon. I want to start with a recon, because I believe that what you represent, in the way we can, is a political space that has made an effort in the past few years to break blocks. He did. And they did, for example, where it was the year 2020 assumptions project that we worked together. But I think that today, in a good part of the focus on the majorities that are to conform to this chamber, it is no longer those who have attempted and have committed themselves to breaking blocks, which I recognize, to squatting. And I think that this mess is a mistake and that I would like to review it. The program you have proposed, the program you have put on the table..., which we share aspects of, of other things– maybe a few, eh? , very few– maybe we don't share them so much, but the big thick, the vast majority share them, in social claus, in economic claus, in environmental claus. You know as well as I do that if we want to bring them to an end we have to decide from this Parliament, that everything that does not come from this Parliament, until the conjuncture of votes in the Congress of Deputies has been the most favorable since 1978 to a left-wing coalition government in the State, until at this point things are not moving forward. The regulation of loguers does not advance, for example, aspects of environmental taxation or other areas of economic taxation. When you have identified shortcomings and limitations in some of our social and economic policies, you have forgotten to point out that many of these when we have put them before us have encountered the opposition of a government of the State that, despite having changed colors and being plural and saying "progressive, at these times, in many cases is an obstacle rather than an opportunity. They've proven it from the hands of the Spanish state government. I say this: I think you have the open door to join this majority that we share the need for the political conflict in Catalonia to be resolved by voting, and that the people who are in prison for political reasons and exile for political reasons must be able to return and be free. Doing things in common also means doing them plurally and accepting this plurality and the reality, also, of the results of the 14th of February, which forces us all to get out of our comfort zone. As I said, with your parliamentary group we have reached agreement in the last parliamentary term and we have done so on the assumption. And I have always recognized that they are good assumptions, assumptions that, in some respects too, you will say, they are presupposed of minimums, but all agreements, when we agree and one proposal, different political spaces, different traditions and different political approaches, are necessarily of minimums, because, if not, then it would not be an agreement, it would be something else. It's probably the most important tool of this government. I think we should be able to reproduce this agreement. I wanted to remember: an agreement in which the Popular Unity Candidacy was not added – legitimately, it is its position – but that we were able to weave Republican Left, Together for Catalonia and In Common We can. If we did it with some assumptions, I think we can make the effort to do it in other areas as well. I agree with the need for a full-fledged execution, because, as I said before, the crisis does not wait. The situation of denunciations is not for days or weeks, it needs it now; it needs a government that has all the tools, in order to face the struggle against climate change, the economic and social transformation and obviously the struggle against the consequences of the covid. I am convinced that we share more things than those that separate us. And my question is: if you agree, as I have seen, with a willingness to do better, I have been willing to put a higher or more intense emphasis on some aspects of it, and with a need for concreteness and detail in some aspects that I have only been able to point out in my speech this morning about – because I did not want to expand further, because I believe that intervention has already been very extensive – if you share in the area of feminism, housing, public services, democratic conflict resolution, why didn't you join today? - Why didn't they come in today? I don't think we're here to do the usual, it's not my will to do the usual; we're here to break down the bugs, to put people in the center. Therefore, the questioners, the Members of Parliament and the Members of the European Parliament may be asked. He has assigned his vision to the dynamics of coalitions; of the dynamics of coalitions..., and you, that in all governments involved in coalitions, you know their complexity and their difficulties. But you, in this majority configuration, in this repte configuration for the country, are not a spectator who is in the ranks seeing how a game went; you have to go into play, you have done it on the assumptions and you can do it on this majority. Joan Tardà quoted me. Joan Tardà always has to read it – I always read it – but everything has to read it – everything has to be read. And you have to read the article from top to bottom. The Joan Tardà spoke extensively, worth the redundancy, of the broad front. And on this broad front, when he talks about you, he also incorporates the CUP, Junts for Catalunya and Esquerra Republicana. So, I appreciate you reading Joan Tardà, but you read all the articles. Therefore, I extend my hand to join the agreement that we signed with the UPC. The CUP also did it. And I think that, in addition, many of the aspects that the UPC believes are of the best we could work together. I'm also holding my hand to add to these exclusions, because the results of February 14 have offered a plural country; a plural country where we are in the logic of transformation we are all of these of the way wide, and I also include Juntes for Catalonia, obviously– obviously. I think that reducing what Junts' space represents for Catalonia in some expressions, some statements, when it's a different space, I think it's not an honest intellectual way to face how we can build this whole way. Proposals. And I want to get into the proposals. In the field of economic transformation, it is a new national pact for industry. We signed a 2017. And you asked: "What happened and how did that pact of 2017 work? So we can summarize what happened in 2017 in the institutions of our country; what has happened since 2017, what it does to the self-government, in the governments, of the interventions that have made it difficult to have assumptions. I believe that today we are on the condition of making a new national pact for industry, in a concerted manner with employers and trade unions, with organizations of the different industrial sectors, in the field of vocational training, in the field of research and technology transfer centres. And we have a tool that we didn't have in 2017, which is a European reconstruction foundation that perfectly connects with many of the criteria of the industrial model we want, which is this model that is also sustainable from an environmental point of view. This resilience from the economic point of view and this need to base our country's industry not in volume, but in value, not in low wages, but in innovation. And, therefore, I think we can work here. In the area of social rescue, he has pointed out what you would add to the agreements that exist at this time. Add to the agreement and add to your proposals. They're not spectators. He's done an analysis of the limitations. I can disagree on a good part of the analysis; but what I think is required is that, if this analysis of limitations is done, then what one can't do is look 'to the end, create arms and say that everything is very bad, but get involved to transform it. And that means getting out of the comfort zones; it means taking on a plurality of actors on this broad path that you also take in the local and regional arena, and that you took on the assumptions of the Generality of 2020. So, we're not that far away. Also in the area of social rescue, as I said, we can work to complete it. And also in the area of democratic deepening. I recognize them as their willingness to face a negotiation to resolve the political conflict, from their point of view. We don't share it in the cent, but I think we share enough of it, honestly, to say that there's a willingness to start this negotiation. Other political spaces of the Government of the State may –"maybe, not: sure – not look at it the same way you do. And, therefore, I recognize it and believe that it is important the role that you can play in this area of democratic deepening, democratic resolution of the conflict between Catalonia and the State. Therefore, Mrs Albiach, Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament, the results of the 14th of February are clear respect for how the citizens have placed confidence in each of the political forces that we are represented here, and the possible combinations are what they are. And, in this sense, I turn them to extend their hand to join the broad path, which they do not expel to anyone, which they are determined to work for amnesty and self-determination, for the economic and social transformation of the country, from a left-wing leadership, which we can do – which we can do – and I think this is the way in which you should join. I will not give up summarizing all the political spaces that defend amnesty and self-determination. That is why I also ask the deputies and the deputies of Junts. We will have the opportunity this evening to take a first vote. Let us not take advantage of opportunities – let us not take advantage of them. Every day that passes without constituting a government with full functions, that can exercise this leadership fully..., because I want to remember that we are a government in functions because of the unjust disqualification of President Quim Torra. And we're a government that runs a long period of intermission that we have to overcome. Every day it's a day when we don't have a full-fledged government to deal with, with all the strength, repression, to be able to lay on the table, with all the strength of a fully constituted government and with all the functions and with the leadership that holds it together, the democratic resolution of the conflict, and with all the strength to face the economic, social and environmental transformations that the country needs. I believe that this reflection I am obliged to do - and I believe that we have the opportunity, this evening, to give good news to the citizens of Catalonia. The Republican Left's proposal during the electoral campaign has been that of an extended way, and we are going to expand it because we want everyone to be paid and we want to add to it every time more people, because the independence that we defend is, from our point of view, the independence that you have felt if it is useful in the country. And we want to be useful to the people. We want the work for the independence of Catalonia, for self-determination, not only not to be incompatible, but also to be fully identified with the better living conditions of all citizens, with economic and social transformation, and, obviously, with the democratic resolution of the conflict. For all this, I insist – so much persevering – I ask the Members of the House of Commons to reconsider their position today and give support to the investiture, because all that they have put on the table, many of the proposals that you defend and that we share, exercise and fulfil from a defense of the sovereignty of this Parliament, of the sovereignty of the country, involving itself there. There will be no change for spectators. And we've come here to change things and not to do the same thing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.58.0	Then has the word Mrs. Albiach for fourteen-minute space, which is what candidate Pere Aragonès used.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.59.0	Thank you, President. Mr Aragonès, you spoke of the 2020 presupposition agreement. I don't know if he remembers that the same wearer at those times, the same people of Junts for Catalonia at those times said he was a contracor, this agreement of assumptions. Therefore, that presupposition agreement was not with Junts per Catalunya, it was almost against Junts per Catalunya, it was against Junts per Catalunya. [[Some applause.]] I'm not saying, they said it themselves in press circles and in communication media. And I'm also saying this: this way beyond what you're talking about, in terms of political parties doesn't exist. This route does not exist in terms of political parties, because, in fact, today you will not be president. And it seems – it seems –..., we'll see, I don't want to move forward, but it seems that you don't either. And that's because Together for Catalonia, so for now it doesn't seem like he wants to invest it. Miri, we have a lot of defects – a lot. And we can be very, very, very wrong. But we don't get bogged down, and if there's anything we do, and I think it's constantly coming out of our comfort zone. Therefore, to say that we inhibit or look at the situation from the ranks is not credible – it is not credible, Mr.Aragones. I say that because precisely we always enter all the gardens. I don't know, if we go over it, they look and see how we always hang around, get to work, even when we get bad, even when there's election costs for us. We're not looking at this, we're looking at whether it's good for the country. And if it's good for the country, there we go. And then they'll say it. Because if we look at it, we have: agreement of assumptions of 2020 – it was not easy, easy people, and we did it –; we have proposed a reform of the Penal Code and we are pressing for the pardons – we know the position of the members of government and we are doing it –; the table of dialogue in Catalonia, which is called when the president wanted, without calendars, without working, and there we are; the table of dialogue between Catalonia and Spain – we have witnessed it and there it is; it works or it doesn't work, but we have heard about it because we are –; the National Pact for Salvation – you know that we have made a proposal and I myself have delivered it in my hands – ; the proposal of alternative investment – here we are, and here we are from the very beginning of the government – there are many people. You've spoken of contradictions before. You can imagine the contradictions that we have, and more with the correlation of forces in the central government. But there was no alternative. What's the alternative? A government in solitary of the Socialist Party? A government of Ciutadans with the Socialist Party? A government of Ciutadans, the People's Party and VOX? Is that what they want? Therefore, to all those who attack our presence so much in the central government, I would like you to think, for a second, that we clearly have our contradictions, that there are limitations, but how would history go if we weren't there? As easy as that. And I also want to say..., or go on, say that we are inhibiting ourselves – again insisting, we are inhibiting ourselves – in some kind of responsibility or that we are not leaving the comfort zone is missing the truth, and you know it. And you know it, and everyone who's here knows it. He's got a lot of coach left, getting out of the comfort zone. But I say, we go out every day and come out with different alliances with different strengths. Now, one thing is to get out of the comfort zone and the other is to give up our principles. And we won't do that. And I think it would be good if no one did. I insist: one thing is to get out of the comfort zone and another thing is to give up the proper principles. Because, in the end, I think the mission that we all have here, that we have as politicians and as politicians, is useful to people, but above all I feel consistent with what you say and respecting the principles that a defense. And you've listened to me speak very clearly throughout the election campaign, you've listened to me speak very clearly during the previous legislature, and we know how far we get and get along with what we do today. So, you can't ask me to do something that we wear months and years before we do, because we'd be giving up our principles. And especially because we think it's not good, the formula you proposed for Catalonia – it's not good. It's just that it doesn't work, it's already failed, it's that we know it hasn't changed anything because this time we don't find ourselves with a new failed legislature in one of the worst historical moments we have. Therefore, we have been clear and transparent. We believe that it is not possible to resolve the political conflict or address the social, green and feminist transformation that the country needs with Junts for Catalonia to the Government. Why is the big question – and put it again –: why, then, has it not been done? Because you've been ruling for a few years, both of you. They started with Junts for the Yes, they started last year's legislature and now they want to repeat it again. What's changed? Is it that Catalonia does not deserve a progressive government that makes courageous policies of transformation, that does not spend all day devoting its energies to the picararalles? Is it that we must degrade the self-government and institutions of Catalonia and its own presidency with a Council for the Republic, instead of having institutions that are sown, that are under the guardianship of the citizenry? We don't think so. We want to insist again: they have a motxilla which is very big, which is very heavy, which is very heavy, which prevents them from moving forward, walking, looking at the future. And that's why I'm going back to insist, we're asking them to rethink it. Because, besides, you spoke of the kingly thread of history. And it seems very good to us, we like it. But this kingly thread, if it does not serve to weave shelters for whom it needs the most, will not serve. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.60.0	The words of Mr Carrizosa, president of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, shut up, because you can start the congressman. Forward, Mr. Carrizosa, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.61.0	Thank you, Mrs. Borràs. If you think that saying "Citizens in some way humiliate us or leave us out of what this party is, which has always been called Ciutadans, outside Catalan and Catalonia, you are wrong. What I'm asking you to do is say as..., call us "Ciutadans" or "Citizens" and do so out of respect and not out of desire to mark the distinction a little bit. Look, I want to start this intervention with a reminder to the thousands of people killed by the covid-19, and I also want to express our condolences to all their relatives and relatives, and to send words of encouragement to all Catalans who are suffering the cruelty of the economic crisis that has touched us to live. Mr Aragonès, today you have gone from points on a fundamental issue for the citizens of Catalonia, an issue that has also been central in your UPC agreement, and which is that limitation of judicial persecution to attacks on Brimo agents, and to their possibilities of acting in the protection of the material goods and the physical integrity of the citizens of Catalonia. I am not surprised that you have gone from point to point on this issue, because this agreement involves putting in the picota the Body of the Mossos d'Esquadra, putting at the feet of the horses to content their anti-system partners. Look, Mr. Aragonès, I wanted to show you today is Brimo's mask in plenary. It is the mask that your agents wear, to which you are scorning for the greater glory of the UPC, which applauds you with enthusiasm, because to them the Mossos are a hindrance and a stumbling block for the society to which they aspire. And, Mr. Aragonès, weakening the Mossos to satisfy those who promote violence on the streets..., is to degrade democracy and coexistence, and it is also a contempt for many of their voters, who also have businesses on the streets, who have suffered the violence of barbarians shunned by the UPC in recent weeks. And, look, Mr. Aragonès, a policeman is prepared, they prepare him at the academy and form him at the Brimo for harassment, to resist harassment, insults, harassment of the violent, but for what is never prepared a policeman, for what they do not prepare him at the academy is to suffer institutional contempt and that their political leaders betray them and put them in the picket so that they reach the government. That is why, from here, all our support for the agents of Brimo and ARRO, the Mossos and the entire State Security Forces and Corpses. [[Some applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, like you, Mr. candidate, like you, do not want an autonomous police that obeys the judges and wants a police that obeys the politicians. This has been the case in Catalonia since the beginning of the process. The mission was to put the Mosses between the sword and the wall. And the Mossos are a symbol of our autonomy and therefore are a hindrance to the Republican Left, to Junts per Catalunya and to the CUP. Mr Torra said: "The problem was precisely autonomy. You have cooked an agreement to invest your backs, feeling the majority of Catalans, and, in addition, the Catalans of the humblest neighborhoods. The Catalans who live in the neighborhoods do not question the Mossos, because the Mossos protect them, because it gives them security to see a van, a van of the Mossos in their neighborhoods, and makes them feel protected from crime, or against the Okupas who carry out illegal business in the homes they occupy. Security is neither right nor left, Mr. candidate, and if it is to be something it is more left, because it is the working classes and the humblest neighborhoods that suffer the most. Go to Ciutat Vella or the Raval and tell me if they prefer to see a visiting politician or a mosso who watches over their neighborhoods and protects them. And you want to leave defenseless the vast majority of the population, who precisely comply with the laws, in order to be able to prepare, calmly and without the forces of law and order, their new anti-democratic struggle. This questioning, this having the Mossos at the point of view, we already live it; we already live it in the times of Councillor Forn, at the beginning of everything. You have also agreed to this democratic confrontation with the CUP, your representative has said so here too. They don't hide it, that's true, and, in fact, there is that agreement signed for anyone who wants to read it. You've been through this democratic, dot-and-dot fight today. And look, Mr Aragonès, the amazing agreement that allows you to present yourself to the investiture today can only happen in Catalonia. We have here a parliamentary arc with an absolute majority of parties that reject liberal democracy and the free market economy, the system that has given us greater levels of political, economic and social development. And Catalonia is what it is because of liberal democracy, thanks to private initiative and thanks to the market economy, but it is in crisis because of the rise of anti-liberal forces, which are basically populists, nationalists and anti-systems. And it is the speech of you, of the nationalists, of the Salvapatria and Identitarian discourse, which is deteriorating our institutions, that is fuelling the confrontation and has not stopped even in the face of a pandemic. And this, really, does not happen in any other democratic country in our environment. Please note what happened in Europe when Mr Puigdemont's petition had to be voted on, how all the forces – conservatives, social democrats and liberals – with the exception of some Members from some territories gave rise to that petition, because Spain is a democracy and the rest of Europe believes in Spanish justice. To that extent we in Catalonia have the evidence that the anti-system is winning, let's say, preponderance, that, besides being the autonomous community of long with greater occupations, is that we come here gentlemen especially from other countries to burn the vans of the Urban Guard. Companies and projects flee, but anti-systems land in Catalonia. And why is that? For it is clear that you have entered, for your own perpetuation, into a strategy of impoverishment on which you intend to settle your project. You intend to make a fertile ground for rebellion, for the "worst, better and better and that here, in the end, it seems that the only way out is to grant a new illegal referendum, without the slightest guarantee or the slightest legality in any constitutional country, here in Catalonia. And today's investiture of you, Mr. Aragonès, is not going to come forward. But it will not be because you have not accepted the blackmails of the CUP, but because you need more time to share with Junts per Catalunya the charges, the chiringuitos and the influences. [[Widow's remorse.]] And also, honourable Members, because you are looking for a plausible accommodation for the fugitive Mr Puigdemont, who wants to continue to rule in this circus that you have mounted us from the process. In fact, Mr. Batet was speaking before and I don't know, I didn't understand him well. He pronounced something like ‘collision government' and I didn't know if he said ‘collision or coalition government', and the truth is I don't know. I don't know if I was referring to being... I listened to him better and... What did he say: « collision government with you or with the rest of the Catalans, or coalition government? I don't understand it, but everything is possible, trying to get Junts per Catalunya. And you, meanwhile, Mr Aragonès, in your investiture speech have denied decadence. And the decadence..., fixed, 5,500..., the decadence of Catalonia, of course. Five thousand five hundred companies have left Catalonia since the referendum until the first half of this year. Some examples are Naturhouse, Natural Gas, now Naturgy, Agbar, Uber, Adelas, Colonial, MRW, San Miguel, Abertis, Planet, AXA, Codorníu, Baby, Pasta Gallo. But we're not decaying. We have lost the European Medicines Agency because of the political instability of the process; but we are not in decline. The business divestments in Catalonia have been fired a 262_per_cent; but you deny decadence. Foreign investment in Catalonia has fallen by 23_per_cent in the past year, while in the Community of Madrid it has grown by 24_per_cent in the same period; but you deny decadence. Madrid has surpassed Catalonia as a locomotive in Spain with almost 2_million inhabitants less. Madrid already surpasses Catalonia in gross domestic product and you deny decadence. And, in case it were little, we concentrated half of Spain's occupations, as I told you before, and you deny decadence. And I wonder: What else has to happen if you stop denying decadence and start ruling and make a plan to reverse this decadence that you yourself have caused in Catalonia? But it doesn't matter to you because you keep calling yourselves oppressed, so with salaries of centimuleurists. And you also dedicate a lot more money than in the rest of Spain to what? A TV3, on the 245_million_euro TV. We are the autonomous community that spends the most money on public television, because it takes a lot of propaganda to create a unique thought and make us believe that a government with the anti-system is a good idea. We have seen, in the last few days, how they have interviewed a subject who has called to point out neighbors with fascist attitudes. And in the meantime, in a perverse way, images of citizens removing yellow ties from the public street were broadcast on TV3. They have taken advantage of the hate speech of a person who did not seem very in his or her fullest to put on the target those who removed yellow bonds from the spaces that are of all and, in this way, make believe that these people, those who withdraw yellow bonds, are Nazis and fascists. And that's perverse. I announce to you that Ciutadans will never remain impassable in the face of incitement to hatred from the public media. This is a shame. We should all be ashamed of ourselves – all of us. TV3, moreover, takes the palm of condemnations for lack of neutrality and, of course, in favor of you who govern. You mentioned..., and following a little with the things I've heard flying feather, as today everyone has spoken many hours, and you more than anyone and I congratulate you, because you are in good shape and are doing a good sprint today. You said: "We will work for the citizens. And I thought, "Have you said to the brains of the citizens", that "they will work to the brains of the citizens", or "to the servi"? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah! , to serve. It's just like I thought I was in the brain... since TV3. [[Some applause.]] I haven't heard either advocate... I haven't heard you advocate for the space race, Mr. Aragonès. I know that was Mr. Puigneró's dream, that the same thing he believes Cervantes or Colón were Catalans with the Institut de la Nova Història and so on, because I think he aspires to plant the stellate on Mars [[relays]] , but you, apparently, as you have not concluded agreement with them, have not had the shame of talking here about our Catalan space career. In the middle of the pandemic, 20_million_de_euros; that you are going to say it's parrot chocolate, but 20_million_de_euros are many, when they come out of our taxes, out of the pockets of all Catalans. And we could have spent the money from the satellite on the hoteliers or the restaurateurs, who have empty cash register because they haven't served dinners in months. And, you, I wonder if you recognize and know this reality, because I haven't heard of it today. And let me read you some excerpts from the letter sent to you by the director of the Gremi de Restauració de Barcelona, Mr Pallarols, about the restorers in the shopping centers. He says: "Put yourself in the place of the restaurateurs whose businesses are located in shopping centers. They haven't served any gas water served on October 16th last year. All they've done since that day is pay rents, taxes, taxes, supplies, etc. With the months, some restrictions have been relaxing; those that affect them, no. The Catalans can sit on the terrace of a bar, take the car and cross Catalonia, go shopping, walk the mountain, but not, under any concept and in any way, sit us to consume in the restaurant of a shopping center. They deserve to be mentioned, they deserve hope, they deserve to be told something. And this frustration of the hoteliers and restaurateurs of Catalonia is in everyone's sight. We all know her. Tell them something more than putting satellites in orbit, cutting right to the Mossos and putting in anti-democratic battles, Mr. candidate. But it is that it could not only help hoteliers and restaurateurs, they could also dedicate the money of that nanosatellite to many measures that would be good for Catalans, such as, for example, less taxes, than self-employed people who have no income do not pay quotas, a shock plan for companies to return, strengthen primary care, pass a law on rights to persons with disabilities. There's a lot to do with money and there's not a penny left. But you have no intention of changing the course, because you are pursuing that populist ruin, as do populist regimes in any part of the world. And the price that pays it is the average Catalan. It's what Valentí Puig called the kale borroka Vuitton. It consists in carrying a bag of that brand while applauding the looting of their stores. And it's not a false alarm, Mr. Aragonès. With his plans of government backed by the CUP and, eventually, that we still do not know and will see, by his uncomfortable friends and yet adversaries of Junts per Catalunya, Catalonia is at an investiture to become a failed autonomy. And, look, what you call an independent majority, you guys... you know, you're a big cheerleader and you're very happy today. I didn't expect it, did I? , that they were mentioning so much that of 52_per_cent. I didn't think you'd want to turn 52_per_cent into a mantra, which in the end is 25_per_cent of the census. I mean, he's voted for half the Catalans... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes, I know, and to me very little, Mr Aragonès, it's true – it's true, it's true, I tell you. But that you cannot declare independence with half of the Catalans, it seems obvious to me, right? It seems obvious to me. But, well, even so. What I'm telling you is that this independence majority..., and I congratulate all the new Members and you'll see how well we'll get along in spite of appearances. [[Rialles.]] What you call an independent majority in Parliament, I see it as an increasingly diverse sudoku of anti-systems, hyperventilated, sometimes people who have seen the light, sometimes climbs, sometimes of infidels and many smart ones who cling to whatever it is not to let go of power and plug the real majority: the majority of Catalans you have bored and scared of. And they know it very well. That is why, Mr Aragonès and Mr Batet, you have taken out the heart of the fact that separatism has surpassed 50_per_cent of the votes in the last elections, we find it amazing. It is also amazing that you have taken out the breasts of management, and that those who in Procicat have not taken the record of any of your meetings in a year should say so. And that means we don't know what information they've handled or what people have made decisions to restrict the rights of all Catalans. You, or you, Mr. candidate, confuse Catalonia and independence by calling for the immediate reactivation of the table we call blackmail and for you it is a table of dialogue. That table that lives behind the real needs of Catalans who are having such a bad time with the crisis. When will immediate action be taken to respond to the unemployed, or parents who cannot reconcile, to the delay in the diagnosis of cancer caused by the covid's crisis, or to the neighbors who live bitter because of the occupation? And I would also say to Mr Illa: will you go and sit down with those who ask for amnesty and self-determination while threatening another anti-democratic battle and putting the Mossos at the feet of the horses? I believe that the fact that we are voting today for the investiture of Mr Aragonès is the triumph of the speech of the North League, from the "Rome thief of Salvini to the "Spain steals us from you, Mr Aragonès". At the Bureau of Parliament, too, the picture cannot be bleak either. It is perhaps as gloomy or more as the one that preceded the 2017 coup against democracy. In the first few days we are trying and we are already talking about fixing the Rules of Procedure to the extent of Mrs Borràs in order to sort out the responsibilities of investigations for corruption. We have also seen a struggle to try to purge the lawyers and to ensure that the Bureau is free to disobey what Mrs Borràs called 'inferences from the Constitutional Court'. It seems that you have not just understood what is the division of powers and the control between powers. Because, of course, this Parliament controls the executive and, in turn, the other powers are controlled by law by the judiciary. Today we have seen a first breakdown of the rules of the game, giving this Parliament the possibility that a man who is fleeing justice will vote against a report that we have of the lawyers who already warned that this cannot be done. I do not know whether I have read this right or wrong, because, I tell you, we have been here a long time, but I have read in La Vanguardia that Mr Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas has abstained in this vote. I read it to him. I do not know if it will be true, but if the lawyer of any of the accused has been so smart as to abstain, be careful; be careful, that Mr Cuevillas knows right and has abstained. If that's true, huh? I don't know, but I've read it and I didn't expect less from him, because I know he's a great lawyer and he's followed the standard of law. Look, we're not going to allow it, logically... I mean, I don't know if it's going to be a Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word? or be a "Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco", why ask me the word? But we are going to be demanding that the rules of play and democracy be respected. And so it will be. You're going to be bored of hearing us, you're going to be bored of the legal proceedings that we're going to put in, if necessary. Because we will not let ourselves be overwhelmed, it is that it is as simple as that – it is as simple as that – because we are free citizens of a free country, and then free people do not let themselves be overwhelmed by their fellow citizens, and you do not seem to us any more than we are. And that principle we take to the end, we take it as far as it takes. And we will defend ourselves in the courts from the abuses that this Bureau or this government perpetuates, as we say. This is going to go like this. It's all right, huh? - It's all right. Do the Haganel, Mr. Cuevillas, and nothing will happen to you. [[Let's give the rialles a round of applause.]] Finally! I only have seven minutes left. Today in the investiture of Mr Aragonès I would also like the Catalans not to lose hope and know that there is an alternative to the rise of nationalism, which seems to be unleashed and unstoppable, judging by the results of seventy_and four deputies achieved in these elections, with almost 50_per_cent abstention and an electoral law – and an electoral law – which really prevails the vote in those areas of Catalonia that are not constitutionalists. As everyone knows, the vote of a lord or a lady of Lleida is worth almost two and a half times the vote of a lord or a lady of Santa Coloma de Gramenet. So, well, with this law, then, yes, you draw quite a few more deputies always. Don't brag about it. We have tried many times to change the electoral law; I suppose now, by taking advantage of this majority, you will try. Look, I found it interesting that you quoted Tarradellas' famous letter to the director of La Vanguardia in 1981. It was Mr. Illa. Tarradellas warned in his letter that, under Pujol's mandate, Catalonia had become a ‘white dictatorship; he used this expression, which became famous. And, among other things, he criticized the model of linguistic immersion and politics based on nationalist victimism. Tarradellas' letter was certainly prophetic, but what Tarradellas could not foresee was that one day the PSC would arrive at the government and would do exactly the same policy that Pujol did, even corrected and increased. The PSC, with the tripartite, placed education, culture and the public media in the hands of the Republican Left. And we believe that the alternative does not pass either through the PSC, or through isolationism, or through anti-immigration rhetoric and the old interventionist policy of right-wing populism; a right-wing populism that shares autarchic velities and contempt for globalization with the CUP, precisely. The alternative to populist ruin and the breakdown of institutions goes through an unequivocal defense of liberal democracy and the market economy embodied in Ciutadans. A defense of cosmopolitanism, of an open world in which the addition with the European Union makes us better. We are proud to be defenders of a system of rights and freedoms that has given Catalonia the best years of our history; a system of rights and freedoms vaccinated against the extremes and the politics of sides that extremists and populists want to impose on us. And we say it wherever it takes, here in Catalonia and also in Madrid, where bipartisanism and the left-wing and right-wing populists want to make us believe that there are no sensible, moderate and centerly positions. And go if there's a center. As Norberto Bobbio said, if there is the left and there is the right, then there is what is between the two: the center. And no one is going to teach us Ciutadans about defending the rights and freedoms of citizenship. I defend the right for parents to be able to educate their children in a concerted school, just as I defend the right of anyone who wants to take them with all guarantees to a quality public school. And you, the CUP, Republican Left and Junts, have laminated the parents' freedom to choose the education of their children, and this government pact that you bring us is going to be the last nail on the lid of the coffin of the school concluded. You are fostering a freed society. Look, I'm an agnostic and also a fan of secularism in society, but I'm sick of speeches, for example, anti-Catholics or that ridicule Catholics, and you do them constantly. [[Some applause.]] And you know why? Because it hides behind these somewhat perverse attitudes, which is the persecution of freedom in all its dimensions, whether religious, economic or political, to replace that with the unique thought that you strive to implant into society. And lastly. Look, people in Catalonia long ago wanted to live better and be free, but with you I'm afraid we're getting close to ruin and chaos. And what I'm telling you again, Mr. Candidate, it seems to me that we're at an investiture of turning ourselves into a failed autonomy. I do not know if today in the first vote, in the second, in the third or when. This autonomy has resisted all the anti-democratic clashes with the strength of the honesty of the citizens of Catalonia, but every system has a limit and, in the end, they will manage to demolish it from the foundations; they will achieve it with their liberal institutions, attacking this Parliament, the officials, the judges or the police, and attacking their governability... – sorry – and attacking their free market economy, giving the keys of governability to the CUP and causing a new flight of talent and capital. From our parliamentary group I would like to say to you that we are going to use this system of rights and freedoms and prosperity fully for all Catalans, and that we are going to have the vocation of rebuilding everything you destroy. In times of pandemic, citizens want moderate and useful solutions, so, from my liberal convictions, I am willing to talk to all those who respect the democratic game. And we'll talk to them. And with those who are excluded there will be nothing to talk about, because they are unable to achieve the common good. The Catalan liberal Lluc Beltran always thought it absurd and nefarious the idea of breaking the ties that have linked Catalonia with the rest of Spain for so many centuries. That is what any Catalan liberal worthy of such a name thinks today and also all those who, without being liberal, defend harmony. There are too many names of illustrious Catalans that have been decisive in the history of Spain. We can remain anchored in victimism, but what we should do is recover the pride of being Catalan and Spanish, the pride of building successes with parties away from identity and anti-market policies. Catalans can count on Ciutadans in this legislature and always, to recover that modern Catalonia that amazed the world for its works and not for its demolitions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.62.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.63.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Carrizosa, you ended up with a quote from economist Lluc Beltran, who places you in liberalism. Today I have quoted Rovira and Virgil, who in his free democracy said that the liberal truth must be "leftist," he said, associating it with ideas of progress and freedom, which I believe are not those of liberalism that you defend. In any case, I reaffirm myself in the republican tradition of freedom as non-dominance. I continue with a quote from another author, another economist, who this morning also served. Karl Marx said that history passes twice, first as tragedy and then as farce. I think we've seen a farce today, in the form of your speech, in good part with all the doses of humor you've tried – and I have to tell you that you've made us laugh a little, huh? – to try to cover up what has been the tragedy of the meteoric fall of the greatest electoral support that recalls the history of Western democracy. [[Greetings.]] How to go from being the party that got the most votes in the Parliament of Catalonia – thirty-six Members – to holding it. And if you want different results, tell us the knowledge that we have to do different things. But today... and the other day, we held the Gaudí Awards, let me, a little, tell him that he tried to make a remake of the Catalan of that movie on the day of the marmot in which Bill Murray was always starring on the same day. You have once again starred in the same speeches that we have heard here for a long time: that if the syringuitos, that if the decay, that if the chryspacia. Continue with this speech, please, Mr. Carrizosa, because you will achieve the same results, and the same way that in these elections you have passed to a part of the deputies you held in the previous legislature, I am convinced that from here... – if divided between yourself... – there will be a citizen's deputy next. Go on, let's get back to it. We'd be very grateful to you. The rate of destruction of the credibility of your political project for your voters has been dizzy, and as much as you've tried today – with skill, huh? , rhetorical, I recognize it – filled with humor that has been one of the most stark political defeats of our country's political history, you continue with chrispah – you continue with chrispah. And you'd do well not to always look at your right, because in a crisis I think that in this Parliament, sadly, with the entrance of the extreme right there will be some that can win them. I want to defend from here all the public servants of our country, all the public servants who work – from the realm of health, from the realm of education, from social protection, but also from the realm of security – for a good service to the citizenry. And, as I'm serving public, I think we should be able to assess, that we should be able to improve, and this is the will of the agreements that we have signed. Also to improve what is the model of democratic police there are things to check, there are things to improve. Because the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which you have sometimes – in themes of escorts, in themes of management – have also taken very little account of the past legislature, is obviously also a cos based on self-criticism, on this democratic compromise, and therefore we recognize it as a democratic police and a model that is always better, I am absolutely convinced, from the recognition of professionalism. You, too, in your obsession – not to recognize the reality of the country – complained about the independenceist majority of this chamber. The last legislature, the argument..., tried to say that there is not a majority in votes. By the elections of 21 December 2017, the independenceists had not yet reached 50_per_cent. And from here they built the fallacy that there was a Parliament that did not represent the majority of voters, that the independent majority of the Parliament did not correspond with the majority of the popular vote. That argument, that it was a fallacy, because you didn't add up more votes than the rest, the ones that defended the unit of Spain, I think today you tried to obviate it, and you didn't have this 52_per_cent, saying it's half, that we only represent one_quarter. You voted a little more than 5 percent of the people who went to vote on February 14, and therefore represent the same rule of three, 2.5 percent of the electoral census. And in mereixen respect– in mereixen respect. But you also have to recognize that today independence is a majority in this chamber and a majority in the popular vote. The anti-systems, which you have said, and which have based approximately eleven minutes of your speech on criticizing, trying to undermine the agreements, trying to draw a government under no circumstances know what and that all this will be the ensorption of our society, so look, I think a little bit of humiliation, which has taken more than thirty thousand votes than you have not. So, a bit of humiliation all folds. I already know that self-government bothers him: you're very upset with TV3, it bothers him with self-government structures, it bothers him that there is a public television and some public communication media in catalá. You're probably more pleased with the other models in which the governments... in which you participated. So look, there's going to be a bet for the public servants of this country, who are going to catch up, who, obviously, like all the public servants' spaces, like all the areas of the Government of Catalonia, starting for the government and starting for myself in the area of my responsibilities, we always have to improve and improve. But I want to make a clear bet for public services and public communication services in this country. I said it this morning and I'm back to say it now: the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation has a phone book in the dynamism of the audiovisual production of this country, which is a phone book of Catalan culture today in our contemporary world. The audiovisual field is a fundamental part of all culture, and it must also be of Catalan culture, of the culture we share. So we'll bet on it. This will be a disc that you can continue to recite in all parliamentary interventions, because we will bet, precisely, on the audiovisual hub, we will bet on Catalan culture and we will bet, obviously, on the Audiovisual Media Corporation. As we will do much more, with much higher percentages and much more effort, in public health, education, social protection and environmental services. You've made a criticism of the pandemic management that the government has done so far and that I've been vice president of. And I'm convinced there's room for improvement, obviously. If any government believes that it has done well in managing a pandemic that has taken over all health systems without being sufficiently prepared, it is a government that is not honest, someone who says that. Therefore, obviously there are aspects in which we were wrong, there were aspects in which it was probably not done a very intense task. We did what we thought best and what we thought best, according to the information we had, but always willing to learn. Therefore, I will not be the one to teach a triumphalist view of the pandemic management, but I do believe we need to place ourselves in the models they propose. And we've had a parliamentary debate in the past few months, you and I. I don't know what management you would want to do about the pandemic, but we look at the management that other countries in Europe are doing, in which they have opted for measures that are sure that from the point of view of restrictions they are tough, but that they have allowed to maintain the epidemic, the pandemic under control. And so have we in Catalonia. Every time we went out with less infection, fewer deaths and fewer restrictions. Precisely, the determination that we have shown to follow the health criteria, the criteria of professionals in the health and epidemiology field and, then, the prudence – as the data improved in this third year, to open up and to relax the restrictions progressively, but with prudence, step by step – is what enables us to face the days that come without having to go back, as some countries around us have done. There are territories today that have apostatized for other types of management. The Community of Madrid, from now on more than one month and a half, represents 40 per cent of the infections of the entire State. They're dades. I don't criticize decisions, I put data on the table. Well, I criticise them, obviously, I don't agree, but I put data on the table. I am left with our way, with the way we have done, which allows us to recover, with the certainty that we will not backtrack economic and social life. And we have done so with accompanying, with accompanying to the affected sectors; insufficient because we do not have the resources of a state and because the states have not yet been able to do so, those that have done so decisively – not the Spanish State, those that have done so decisively – they have not been able, even if they have all the resources, to make up for what they suppose to have an establishment closed for weeks or with restrictions that limit much activity. But we've put compensation on the table. And, in fact, the compensations that the Government of Catalonia has put in, you help them that we've done..., I'm not saying, they can prove all of you in the public grant register of the Government of the State, all the subsidies of the community of the different territories. What has not been done more in absolute terms and what has not been done more in relation per capita is the Government of Catalonia. And the governments in the city government, which now, I forgive, but I've already lost myself because I don't know who they are anymore, they've been too much for under them – they've been too much for under them. Therefore, we have chosen a strategy to defend salvation, to defend life and to put all resources – all resources – to help those who suffer the most. And this is my will if I choose the President of the Government of Catalonia, that my Government continues to do so, because I believe that this is the way: to listen to the scientific and health criteria, to put everything that is in our pool of resources to compensate the sectors and, obviously, to do this, as it did before, precisely because we have assumed responsibility, to hold, therefore... to have done the work, to have done the dues, to be able to demand from the State that it also has much more resources. I'm done. He referred to the defense of the market economy. Allow me to say that I don't know if that's what this means to those Members who understand and come from the market economy. Anyway, it's his model, mine's another one. I understand that you will vote not for my investiture. So I thank them for the vote. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.64.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Aragones. Mr. Carrizosa has the word for twelve-minute space.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.65.0	Mr Aragonès, you have also tried to make sense of humor, I congratulate you. Look, regarding election results, humility, really, yes, yes, with humility – with humility. Look, and some politician..., when we took out thirty-six, some politician of the Socialist Party said to me: "Be careful, humility, because now you are up and then you can go down, just as happened to us, that we were up and look at us now. And so it was for a long time until they recovered. And another politician, also active, of the Socialist Party, when this time we got some bad results, because he said to me: "Hey, look, a lot of respect because in politics sometimes these things happen and sometimes you're up behind. And I thought: "How do you know, these socialists, in the time they have been! [[Rialles.]] And I'm trying to learn, because we came to politics after they and I stared a lot and I think they're right. You enjoy your thirty-three Members, who may not last forever and less with the management you are going to do, if it continues and if it ends up as president, and judging by the things you have been doing so far. Look, you told me about that movie, which I love, about Marmot Day. And I'm telling you... that is, the referendum is a day of the marmot. This endless referendum is either the endless story, or it's the day of the marmot, or it's both at once. Because now you re-present yourselves with a referendum, but your partners, and yet adversaries, because you are saying that the referendum has already been done, that it has already been done. Well, that illegal referendum you shouldn't be bragging about is nothing because it's a fraud to most Catalans who do respect the laws. It is the difference: those of us who respect the laws ask that others also respect them. And look, as far as the CUP is concerned, and... you said I treated them badly. I hope they don't feel abused by my words – I hope not. I believe that the anti-system option has its interest in listening to it; now, it is trembling to command, and it is trembling to negotiate governments, and it is trembling in a society that is in crisis and in need of a strong democratic police that obeys the laws. It is trembling to have to agree governments with anti-systems, which may be fine to hear their philosophy, provided they do not apply it to you in your home; but to hear them, then, well, it can be something stimulating at certain times. And as for TV3. Look, you've bothered me one thing about what you've said – a little bit, huh? , because I don't bother much about this politics stuff. But you said that what bothers me is that TV3 is in Catalan or something, you said, a malice like that you said. Look, what bothers me about TV3 is basically two things. One, which is so expensive, which is so immensely and extravagantly expensive, so outrageously expensive, with what we are going through in Catalonia all, especially the classes that most need work and social services. Let it be so expensive, and then it's an instrument of propaganda; let all that money go to propaganda. Let us have in Catalonia a public television and radio that pass from partiality and that are of the televisions that have been most condemned for lack of neutrality in electoral campaign throughout the developed world. It's just that this would have to make us think a little bit, even if it's out of shame. That's what's bothering me. And then it bothers me, of course... it's what bothers me about TV3: it's expensive and it's propaganda. And the second thing that bothers me is his malice about Catalan. And because you, look, you've started this speech today using the spider, which I think is very good, and you've been using Catalan all the time, which I think is phenomenal. But you, when you use the spider and the Catalan, and never ever use the Castilian..., I believe that anyone who presents himself to the investiture as a candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat would do well not to spell out the Castilian expressly, because it is the majority language in Catalonia. And I think you would have had a very good detail, that I invite you to, if you want, then, in the replica, use the Spanish. Because, if not, that which imputes me, which attributes me an animadversion to Catalan, for the fact that I'm speaking in Spanish, or I don't know why, or because it presupposes, or because I'm..., I don't know, I don't understand. For I say to you that you, who are with parties and who agree with parties that speak « to clear Catalonia d'espanyols and that speak that those who speak Spanish equate them to wild beasts and ladies who sign manifesto Koiné who say that Spanish speakers are involuntary instruments of linguistic colonization of Franco, of course, with all these things..., well, that Catalan nationalism is not covered with glory, precisely. So, don't come to me with TV3, please, Mr. Aragonès, – please. Well, yeah, it's political, I get it, but ugly, huh? - Ugly. And, look, about the pandemic. Look, I know that any Catalan who goes to Madrid thinks: "How are we in Catalonia! and there is no substantial difference in the results of containment of the health crisis between one community and another. Among other things, because you tried to see if you could say, paste the bubble that is that in Madrid they falsified the data. That's what they said for a while. Then, of course, since that doesn't hold up, they haven't said it. And if there had actually been some numbers that would have been scandalously harmful to the control of the epidemic in Madrid, you would have pulled them out everywhere. And it wasn't like that. And yet, the hoteliers, the restaurateurs, the merchants have been more respected in that autonomous community than here. And that hurts all the people who travel on the AVE and go to Madrid and see how they are living there or how they end their..., starts the curfew at eleven o'clock in the night and restaurants can give dinners. They don't ruin them that much. And that respect I would have wanted us to have had here in Catalonia. And I would ask you to be more careful and respectful in your new government with the people affected by the restrictive measures, which is normal and I recognize this because we cannot do anything else, to manage something like this as we have come to the governments of all Spain and the world is very difficult and it is very annoying, but here, as we have 17 autonomous communities and Sánchez preferred to take responsibility away and delegated it to the autonomous communities, we have been able to see the consequences of one way of carrying things and others. And we believe that here we have been seriously wrong – the Catalans, I say, assuming that you have been my vice president, so that you will see that I am not so bad. See? So, I would ask you, as a candidate, for they are more..., to talk to people before making these restrictions, to quote them... The unanimous criticism of all those affected by the restrictions is that you communicated to them the restrictions that affected your sectors by the press. They found out about the press. And then they didn't give any help. When it is so restricted to a sector, it is necessary to give it a help in return or try not to restrict so much. This is, in short, what I wanted to comment on in this reply. And finally, Mr Aragonès, Catalonia is experiencing very serious moments – very serious. Don't make them worse. Don't give in to everything – don't give in to everything. Don't give in to all the CUP anti-systems. It does not give in to all those who have the most xenophobic and dangerous postulates in the field of Catalan nationalism. Everything's not good to rule. You get very exquisite – very exquisite – with some parliamentary groups and you point out and we are used to – like the energy of this TV3 that laid the foundations for the gentlemen who removed the ties – that you put the label of 'face' to those who don't like it – we are used to it. Don't go this way – don't go this way. You're not who. We are not going to follow the sense of ‘fashion that the gentlemen of the CUP or the gentlemen of the Republican Left are saying'. [[some applause]] or the gentlemen who are saying that Catalonia must be cleaned of Spanish or that the extremists and Andalusians are vague, do you understand? We, this... we're not going in there – we're not going in there. Reconsider your nationalist policies, seek to accommodate ourselves to the same extent as the rest of the citizens, which is to the laws in force. Respect others, respect democracy. They do not have so much 52_per_cent, which is 52_per_cent of fifty_per_cent of Catalans. Don't be so afraid, you're afraid, you've already given us a blow before. Be more responsible. We're in a very big crisis. Last. I'm done. I don't know how much I have left, but I want to leave it here. For all that is fighting the pandemic, there will be those of Ciutadans, as we were even with Mr. Torra – even with Mr. Torra. Even with him. For you, if you rule, will have us for everything that can help to make the crisis to the Catalans more manageable. We'll be responsible. But I say to you: with this that you intend to establish in Catalonia and this supposed legitimation of 52_per_cent to get us into another blow like the one we suffered in 2017, there you will not count on us. Let's have six deputies or let's have thirty-six. There will be other elections and we will see each other, because we have been here since 2006 and we will never leave again, Mrs. Capella – never again. Nothing more. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.66.0	Mr. Pere Aragonès has declined... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please... Mr. Pere Aragonès has declined to use the word twist at this time. I would recommend it to Mr. Carrizosa... I would recommend that you reconsider some of the statements he made, titling xenophobs to political parties, political groups of this chamber. [[Greetings.]] You can't make this kind of statement, that they're blind to institutions and also to this presidency, which is. Thank you. Right now... [[Greetings.]] At this point, the words of Mr.Alejandro Fernández, who is president and spokesman of the Mixed Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.67.0	Thank you very much, President. The President of the Parliament of Catalonia, Laura Borràs, has summoned us here today and proposes a candidate, Mr Pere Aragonès. And, therefore, I would like to start my speech by referring to her, the President of the Parliament of Catalonia. Firstly, to congratulate her on her presidency. There was no agenda for the political groups on the day of their inauguration, and I therefore do so today. But above all I wanted to congratulate her also because, over the last few days, we have known that she has been a brand-new official of the State – of the Spanish State, she understands. And I wanted to congratulate her, but also to apologize: we had not valued her sufficiently, we had underestimated her. Perhaps influenced by the appearance of mails that did not leave her in a very good place, we were not able to properly evaluate her abilities. Because you have to be very cracky, but very cracky, to call a fascist state and at the same time get you a position of official of the fascist state. Even the double agents of the Cold War would not have achieved such a feat. Because it is necessary to be very crack, but that very crack, to call oppressor a state and at the same time to get a living pay of the oppressor state, in this case Spain, that you will agree with me that oppress, what is said to oppress, oppress of pity. But without a doubt, the most amazing thing – homeric, I would say – is to think that on the very day of his taking office, while in the morning he would throw at us epic soflamas calling to disobedience, in the afternoon – what silence he had – he would fill with Hispanic discipline the forms to access his position of official of the State to disobey. It's impressive. That's a master move, President. I stand at your feet, Mrs. Borràs – at your feet. [[Rialles.]] Well, the sincere congratulations have been made, and I shall come to that. I speak on behalf of the People's Party of Catalonia, the last force with parliamentary representation, and I do so precisely for this reason with the humility of life. I assume that I do not speak on behalf of all Catalans, I am very clear, but that I do want to address myself to all of them, the 110,000 who voted for us and, of course, also those who did not. And I say with the humility of life of those who have not had clear support in the ballot boxes, but believe with all the conviction of the world that our ideas remain necessary and that they have a majority vocation, although today in Catalonia, they obviously are not. But even though we obviously believe that our ideas have that majority vocation, the acceptance of a result in the ballot box is a sine qua non condition for talking about democracy and developing it perfectly. However, democracy is the rule of the majority, but from respect for the minority. They are the limits to the majority that Giovanni Sartori spoke of: having a majority does not mean having impunity, it does not enable you for everything, and that the democratic quality of a society is measured by the treatment of minorities, of course, and respect for legality. Some, who in this room are the majority of you, in the Congress of Deputies are as minority or more than we here. And there they fill the mouths of calling for plurality and respect for minorities, and here they do exactly the opposite. I hope they will change, but listening to these days and today also in their interventions, I do not find too much hope for that change. And I say that I speak with the humility of life, but with firmness, because our voice in favor of Catalonia of all, of Catalonia plural, will sound with the same force as if we had absolute majority. In that we are not going to give in to a millimeter, because I am proud of our political project, today more than ever, more than ever in the difficulties. Some of us dreamed up thinking that perhaps the February 14 elections could be the first of the post-trial elections. At some point it seemed like that could be the case. It's twisted, the time has come. Perhaps it was a part of wishful thinking, what the Anglo-Saxons say of the thought of desire, not in any way naivety. The idea is that there could have been no change. We're still the same, exactly the same as bad. The separatist process is neither a straight nor a discontinuous line, nor even a zigzag towards the goal of independence. The CEO himself and his data are clear: not even the supporters of independence see it as viable, even if they want it. That's what the vast majority of independence, asked by the CEO about it, thinks. The separatist process, I mean, is not a straight or discontinuous line, not even a zigzag; it is an infinite self-deferential loop where not a single step is advanced towards the supposed objective of independence, but it is where everything else is destroyed in the name of it. We are exactly the same as a few years ago: Cainite struggles between potential partners of government, institutional blockade and destabilization, degradation of the economy and coexistence in Catalonia. You claim to follow 'tissuement elevations', without knowing exactly why or for exactly what. However, they do, because they actually know it, because it is about power and hegemony. You know perfectly well that neither independence, nor self-determination nor amnesty have any kind of route, but you appeal to them because you know that it is the alibi for what they really care about, which is power and hegemony; that is, who commands and in what terms does it. Today you have talked about that, there has been no strategy, you have not been able to map out any future for Catalonia. They have limited themselves to talking about their own strategy to see who is in charge and on what terms. And since it is a loop that never advances, today we have returned to the exit box, to the initial box. Today we are exactly the same as in 2015, in the face of an investment based on an agreement with the CUP. Six years ago it was the old Convergence that signed that agreement, which led Arthur Mas to the trash of history, and a few years later to the old Convergence to extraparliamentarism, as we have seen these days. I believe, Mr Aragonès, that you are now going after you, and that instead you would not be particularly calm, given the precedents. Catalonia remains, six years later, in the hands of the CUP. That would perhaps be the title of what is happening today, apart from what I said earlier: Catalonia remains, six years later, in the hands of the CUP. The cupaire issue deserves a little more detailed analysis, and let me go ahead and tell you that what I will say next to the UPC goes without any kind of acrid, even a certain tenderness and nostalgia of the unlived. I never forget the CUP proposal included in its 2017 electoral programme, according to which all Catalans had the right to enjoy a sabbatical year charging. Radicals do, fools don't. That proposal removed my deepest convictions, and for a few hours my fertile imagination elucidated how wonderful it would be to enjoy an entire year handed over to the sweet vita and upon charging, and I recognize that those few hours I was happy, until my wise self made numbers and saw that that it made no sense and I went back dramatically to reality. But from that experience and from the Artur Mas affair I learned some important lessons, including never undervaluing anyone and respecting their political strategy, especially considering that they are sometimes smarter than they seem, even though their goals for me are absolutely rejectable and harmful. A former convergent, very influential leader, a few years ago, said with some pride that they had « perfectly controlled the cadells of the CUP. And you always talk in those terms. It gives me the feeling that both Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya think they are smarter than those of the CUP, and it gives me that the smart ones are those of the CUP. [[Rialles.]] They force you to sign documents to breach the law, but then they always leave in rositas systematically. They force them to disobey, to invade, to mislead, while they do the most subversive thing they do is a juggling contest in the okupa couple. As I used to say, radicals yes, fools no. No fools, no brains. Not only do you push them to delinquent and they go off in rositas, but you eat well your economic and social agenda, even your language. Today in your speech, I will not make an explicit reference, but I have heard something delirious, Mr Aragonès. This political agenda in favour of illegal occupation, against concerted education, in favour of open and confiscational taxes and which poses a systematic humiliation to the State Security Forces and Bodies, including, and especially here in Catalonia, the Mossos d'Esquadra. In that regard, the data on all these issues are absolutely devastating. And you've been under your command, Mr. Aragonès. You've ruled three years. We know how he does it. You have led the Catalan economy for three years and you have led the Health-Economy binomial for the time you have served as President-in-Office. And your management has been bad. Therefore, we will not give you the confidence to continue to be managed in a way, in our opinion, harmful. Under your mandate, Mr Aragonès, the loss of Catalonia's economic leadership throughout Spain has been consolidated. Catalan GDP, the last quarter of 2020 has fallen by 0.54, while in Madrid it has grown by 4.4. In 2020, 778 companies were created in Catalonia and 1,164, the only place in Spain where more companies go than they are created. Unimaginable things. Who could have imagined Catalonia leading the destruction of jobs in 2020 throughout Spain? Five hundred_thirty_and_seven_th thousand_nine hundred unemployed, reaching 13.87 unemployment rate. Who would have imagined at the time Catalonia leading the debt levels of all the Spanish Autonomous Communities? 78,292_million in the third quarter of 2020. But there are in the agreement they have signed with the CUP, Mr Aragonès, qualitative aspects for us as worrying or more than the data to which I have just referred. Under the heading "Reform of the model of public order which they have agreed with the CUP and that euphemism, there is hidden the disauthorisation and humiliation of the Mossos d'Esquadra, to which I wanted to transfer all our support, on behalf of the People's Party. A message also of impunity for the violent: the idea that they are going to make a suit to the extent that their actions go unpunished. And an effect called crime, yes, an effect called crime. And some will think that we overreact when we talk about the so-called effect, but we already referred to it three years ago when we talked about what certain policies might have to do with illegal occupation. And today Catalonia represents 50_percent of the illegal occupations in all of Spain. Mr Aragonès, we cannot vote for you to continue Catalonia in decadence. And we cannot vote with you on the obviously far-left agenda that you raised this morning and which is in agreement with the CUP. Catalonia cannot be ruled from the extreme left, because I am absolutely convinced that it does not correspond at all to those who have historically been the values of this society. I would like to end this intervention by acknowledging once again that we are few Members, only three, but we are not going to give up, however few we are, defending educational freedom in Catalonia and the right of parents to choose the educational model for their children. It is one of the greatest advances in Europe, in the Europe of the Union, to have been able to understand that the public education system constitutes it strictly public education – there I was, throughout my educational journey and I am very proud of it – but also the concerted one, which is the guarantee that there can be freedom for parents to choose. We are few Members, only three actually, but we are not going to give up defending private property in Catalonia. The right to housing, a material right enshrined in the Constitution, cannot be guaranteed by liquidating or eroding the liberal right to private property. It is up to the public authorities to guarantee the right to housing; it is not up to the owners with their housing to guarantee collective law. It is the public authorities that have an obligation to guarantee both property and housing rights. We are few, only three, but we will never give up defending Catalonia's rights and freedoms for all Catalans, think as they think, vote for those who vote and speak as they speak. And we will do so from a constructive but firm and absolutely determined opposition. And although politics is indeed oscillating, as life is, we are absolutely convinced that time will finally give us reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.68.0	Thank you very much. Now you have the word to answer Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.69.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Fernández, Members of the People's Party, I would like to begin by reflecting also on the acceptance of democratic results. I believe that the elections of the 14th of February have placed in this Parliament what has been the desire of the country's citizens over whom I want to represent them, who are the political programmes and the teams that deserve their trust. They have put a Parliament and in the results they visualize a diverse and plural Parliament, but it has some characteristics that I think are decisive for what it does to the agenda that we will have to develop this legislature. First of all, this is the Parliament with candidates located in the largest left-wing forces of the past few years. Therefore, there is clearly a message from the citizenry precisely in the line of control of some of the positions that you have placed here today on the table: that the property rights must also be compensated for the right to housing, social and economic rights, that there is no need to have a model of state, a model of administration of the let it do, let it pass, that it is aimed at the functioning of the markets and that it is looked at in the world without intervening to correct those dysfunctions of the markets, and that it is not necessary to intervene neither for what it does to the paper in the defense of those rights collections that are to be done by the administrations and those public goods that are to be collected that are common to be given to the administrations. Therefore, a clear message: most progress. A _second message, also clear: the independenceist majority. I am aware, you say, of the oscillating policy, yes, but there is one thing that is not oscillating for many years in this Parliament: independent majorities reproduced in each legislature, continue one, successively one behind the other. This morning, in my initial speech, I recalled the three Members who set out in committee, in 1989, the first resolution in which explained the non-renunciation of the right to Catalonia's self-determination by this Parliament: Carod-Rovira, Colom and Pueyo. And, today, from those three we have passed, today, to a majority of seventy-four. Therefore, with all due respect, obviously, for the ideas that you represent and for your voters, you should also give some thought to the process that has been followed by the Spanish State of Recentralisation, which has made it easy for the independenceists to add up every time more people. I grew up politically during the term of a Spanish president named José María Aznar, who precisely culminated in this process of re-centralisation, of, at last, institutional agrarian against what the institutions of self-government of Catalonia represent. You, who today in your intervention, in a truly rhetorically brilliant way – I want to recognize it – have taken advantage of it to overtify contradictions and aspects of many independent Members of this House, and then you have come to make a demonstration of humility, too, that honor, I think you should also review, in this review of humility, why today you put it so easily to be so many independents. You have managed, with your policies, that those who have often defended autonomy and the passing federal state join independence. And they've made it very easy for us. So, most left-handed, most independentist. And we are obliged to launch a political agenda in this area. In the area of social policies and in the area of resolving the political conflict with the State, based on self-determination and based on amnesty. Because we, after his intervention in which he has questioned, after all, the will or belief in our project..., come here to make a clear intervention to defend the independence project for this country. I think that's the best I can pass on to Catalonia, that I can decide with full responsibility and, therefore, assuming and proud of the uncertainties, but also, assuming and correcting the mistakes that it entails, determining with full responsibility and with complete freedom all those who are competent to govern a society. And we want to do so because we believe that it is better to decide from the country to the same level that other countries of the world do; with the same sovereignty that you are of our size, to be able to decide everything that affects the citizenship of this country. And whoever we think about this, the 14th of February election was the majority. And we have successive majorities, most of them later in this Parliament many years ago. In another part of your intervention, you have made a criticism of what my responsibilities as a government have been. I assume that you, the years in which the gross domestic product grew more than the middle of the State and that you were while Vice President Junqueras was Economics Councillor and I myself Secretary of Economics or later Vice President and Economics Councillor, grew more than the middle of the euro area..., that's why you forgot. When we have been permanently, also now in a pandemic situation, at a rate lower than the average in the State, you have also been oblivious; when we have been in the territory of the State that you help more per capita and in total, in absolute terms, you have done during this pandemic for the affected sectors and for the combination of the companies and workers affected, more than your sector kept or not restricted. In this criticism of the binomial health and economy, you are a clear advocate – we have seen clearly – of the model of President Ayuso to the Community of Madrid. And I've done it before with Ciutadans' intervention: it's a model that we don't share – that we don't share. Except we don't share that if we were to pose on one side of the story, we wouldn't pose on the side that looks like she likes to be Mrs. Ayuso. Therefore, we make a defense of the task we have made, which obviously has errors – obviously – but which is also uncertain. And I think that today we can face a different situation for what it does to restrictions, for what it also does to the health and epidemiological situation, always with all the necessary prudence, because they have made certain decisions, based on the scientific criteria and also based on the criteria of compensating the sectors concerned. And I'll leave it here, Mr. Congressman. I believe that the ballot boxes have placed us all, each time, in the measure of the responsibility they want us to exercise the citizens of Catalonia. Certainly, this isn't permanent. The citizens of Catalonia will decide in a few elections, four years from now, how they want to return to rule and distribute responsibility in this country. While – while – I will want to exercise all the responsibilities, all the confidence, with all the functions that citizens have assigned to my candidacy, in political strength and in my program. And do it together with all those who defend economic and social transformation, transformation into a green claus, a feminist claus and an independent republican claus. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.70.0	Then... no? Okay. Mr. Fernández refused to make the reply turn and, therefore, then has the word Ms. Marta Vilalta, spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.71.0	Good evening, deputies and deputies; presidential candidate, companion and friend Pere Aragonès. « Do not forget that the most basic and living problems are those of those who work. If you want to be fair, put your special effort into all those laws that are social and tend to abolish all abuse and privileges. That of the great feast of our freedom no city, of the estament or of the class that follows, does not get back with set of work, of culture and of justice. Diary of sessions of the Parliament of Catalonia of 14 December 1932. It's a fragment of President Francesc Macià's speech. They are not, therefore, these words, my words, our words, but they do feed us years later and follow us, more ours than ever. Because it's just about this, it's about this, it's about knowing how to take advantage of the results of the polls, how to take advantage of the mandate they give us the ballot boxes, to put us at the people's side, just like we knew how to do it for years to fight abuses, to fight privileges, to win rights and to shield freedoms. In fact, that's why we're independent, as Mr. Aragones has explained before, and it's about making independence, and making, obviously, independence, the tool to improve people's lives, a tool for people's servants. And that's also why we're here today, to put the institutions, this Parliament, to the people's servants; the government, to the people's servants. To translate the strength and confidence that people have made in us through the ballot boxes, with the necessary momentum that must be reversed in the city and in the country in the form of social rescue, in the form of reconstruction and, of course, also in the form of the Catalan Republic. Because we already know – and we have already said this and we will not tire of telling you the times you need – independence is the way to guarantee social rescue, full rescue and reconstruction of the entire country. And all this we have to do now and we have to do it as quickly as possible, because the situation is urgent, both social and national, for the multiple crises that we suffer. We just talked about it today. We are experiencing an unprecedented health crisis, with the resulting paralysis of everyday life and with all the negative consequences for the economy, for many sectors and for many people and families. We saw the year 2020 as the Catalan economy reduced its GDP by 11.4_per_cent compared to 2019; as inequalities have worsened, and as, who suffers the most, women are again. A health crisis, a social crisis, an economic crisis, to which we must also add a democratic crisis, because we continue – we continue – with the political conflict installed by the foundations and with an incessant repression, promoted, endorsed and maintained for the State and also for the Government of the Spanish State, with the PSOE in the lead. And, despite all these crises and with all the adversities there were, the ballot boxes of the 14th of February – certainly, some ballot boxes that were imposed – gave us a clear result: independent victory as never before and turning from the left important. This double victory, because it is a double electoral victory, of the left and independenceist, makes today this Parliament, for the first time, explicitly independent parties reach 52_percent of voters. Today it also makes that there are a majority of lefts that up to about 60_percent of the representation and votes. Most of independence is left-handed, and most of it is left-handed, and a vast majority is even bigger if we count the self-determinationists. With these two majorities... who, by the way, have a central axis that connects everything, which is the Republican Left of Catalonia. These two majorities, the independentist and the left, also reflect the great consensus of the Catalan society: republic, referendum, self-determination, amnesty, dialog, social rescue, defense of the common good and of all the public. And the key to the return of our future is to work precisely these two majorities, the independenceist and that of the left, to assume, in another way said, that the social struggle and the national struggle are indestriable. To the band of this mandate or of this double independence and left-wing victory in the polls, we also have a clear message: "Agree. This was also a clear message from the ballot box: "Get on with it. And so it's like Republican Left we've made it very clear that the best reception, precisely, for this present time of complexity, and they're also faithful to this mandate of the ballot box, was the articulation of a broad agreement, of a broad government, as wide as possible. An agreement that allows you to join forces in a situation, as I said, very complicated and unprecedented, summarising – which is what we wanted – a few majorities of up to eighty-two Members and Members, with country consensus as a common link. The October 3 government, I didn't say. We tried. Certainly, they know we've tried. And we think it's possible. Because the situation is pretty hard as it is to have been able to park openings or damage. Certainly, it was not possible, because the vetoes created have prevailed before some of the country's needs. It's a big deal. In any case, we have continued to work to follow the majority. From the Republican Left, therefore, we have followed the leadership in the search for media and majorities, are faithful, again, to the ballot boxes and to the democratic mandate of the 14th of February. And that is why we have assumed, and we also want to continue to assume, all the responsibility for independence, and this last month and half we have spent all our energy building an agreement represented by the ballot boxes to make a stable, just, social government, guarantor of rights and freedoms; an independent government, a government that has a clear social and public axis to get out of the crisis, a government led by Pere Aragonès, supported by 52_percent of supporters, but a government for everyone, obviously. Yesterday evening, as soon as the evening came in, we knew that this, this government, this broad and stable government that you represent 52_per_cent, today will not be possible. The historic opportunity, therefore, to materialize the independenceist majority in the polls, unfortunately, today will not be possible. The new republican, social, just, independent and republican generality that we have to touch today's sayings, today, will not materialize, and will not do so for the forbearance of Junts for Catalonia. You have, therefore, missed an opportunity. The refusal of Junts for Catalonia to invest in Pere Aragonès, today, is incomprehensible to us, and we believe that it is also incomprehensible to all those who have placed their trust in independence, to all those who before enormous adversities have once again given us support, to give confidence and have made us overcome this 50_per_cent threshold that we have never managed to achieve before. Honestly, and with all the constructive will, who doesn't want an agreement seeks excuses, and who wants it, like us, seeks solutions and makes proposals. And today, after listening to the speeches that have taken place at the length of the day, we are still more convinced that there are no insurmountable differences because today there is no such agreement, because today it is not possible, this majority, the investiture of Pere Aragonès and the innication of a government that can face the backs of the country: social rescue, reconstruction and transformation of Catalonia and also the advent to the Catalan Republic. It has been shown that reaching agreements was possible. So we did with the CUP, between the CUP and the Republican Left of Catalonia. Reaching an agreement was materially possible because we did – then I'll talk about it. I think he will share with me the following ideas: do we have a solid basis for overcoming the veils of evil and the ancient toilets? Yes, it's obvious – and so did the candidate, Mr. Aragones. Should we strategically agree on the path to ensure stability and also guarantee the advent to the Catalan Republic? Yeah, it's obvious, too. But we also say that the strategic independence consensus in the independence world must allow us to move forward. That is why we need to agree; to agree, to agree strategically to move forward, but not to block. And today you, together with Juntes for Catalonia, are blocking the opportunity we have between our hands after the historic term of February 14. They have refrained from deploying the entire government program and from opening the new stage that Mr Aragonès explained before, with all the challenges that must be faced urgently in our country. Say in another way: unity is not preached, it is practical, and trust is built on the basis of walking. We have assumed, and we continue to assume, the responsibility that we have before us; we have left hours and hours, and we will leave all of them, the hours and the days that we need and that are needed to make it possible. You know that we have gathered drawings of the hour, these last few days, in more than fifteen meetings, in the band of tricks and parallel finds, and that we have exchanged up to eight proposals and working papers. We've got three days ahead of us, after today. Take advantage of them. We'll move in on Tuesdays, here, another time. Don't give up making it possible. We won't give up because we think the country can't wait any longer. He said we did get an agreement with the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, a good deal, plus. With this agreement between the CUP and the Republican Left of Catalonia we open a door that allows us to enter and start a new stage. Certainly, it is a global agreement – and you have repeated it a lot today – that sets a few minimums, a minimums agreement. And that is why, as candidate Pere Aragonès also said, we commit ourselves to continue working to achieve it, to extend this agreement and, obviously, and above all, because it is complex. But it's a good deal, it's a good starting point, both in social claus as in national claus. It serves to lay this first stone, so that, among many other things, it allows to face the housing emergency, strengthen the primary attention, change the public order model or prepare the new democratic agenda. It cost. And it's true that we also have hopes. And that's why we have to be demanding and responsible. And so be. If we look at this chamber, after the 14th of February mandate – I already said, but I want to repeat it again – we see the Parliament more leftovers of the recent democratic history of Catalonia. We also see Parliament as the most independent of the last few years, and, in fact, as well as history. But we also see Parliament as more feminist and more feminized. And we also see the most diverse Parliament in origin, language and sexual orientation. Unfortunately – unfortunately – we also see that, for the first time since the restoration of democracy, the extreme right has a presence in this Parliament, a presence that we cannot and do not want to obviate, nor can we let its agenda be marked by the extreme right. We know very well, what they want: to profit from the propaganda, the spectacle and the sound needed to spread hatred and to cover up the shame. We don't want to forget or let her mark her schedule. And how do we do that? They must ask us. So working, making it clear that this Parliament, this one, will continue to feel the Parliament more left-handed, more independent, more diverse, more feminist and more feminized than the history of Catalonia, and that it will work in consequence. The extreme right wins when it is able to mark the agenda; the extreme right loses when we win all and all in rights and freedoms. And this is what we will do and what we have undertaken to do from the Republican Left Group in this Parliament, in this legislature: win rights and freedoms for everyone, continue the feminist compromise of Parliament and Government, continue with the compromise with equal rights for everyone and for all citizens, continue with the compromise for a different and plural Catalonia. We've done it 80 years ago, right when the party, the Republican Left of Catalonia, was born, which today I have the honor of representing some of this Faristol. Then republicanism, the workers' face to face with fascism and conquered rights. And now we're going to do it again. We are heresies and heresies of that 30-year-old Republican Generality, and we want to regain that spirit of transformation that inspired us from 1931 onward. If then that republican generality, those years, those governments assumed a transformative social and national adventure, now we also want it to follow, now we want to do it again. If the Catalan Republic of the 1930s, with the republic leadership, was used to win rights, especially for women – for example, the right to vote, access to education in equal conditions, the recognition of civil marriage, the Law of divorce or even all the right to abortion, which here in Catalonia was applied – at present and these last years, also the tireless task of the Republican Left, together with other formations – obviously, it has to be recognized –, it has also served to make possible the conquest of rights such as the guaranteed income of citizenship, the expansion of the protection of women before male violence, the impulse of trans-law, the decriminalization of discrimination. And we want to follow, because we know that when the Republican Left leads – and is on conditions to lead – the country is moving forward. And yes, that's right, and he said before the time is difficult, it's the other way around, it's complicated, because of the crises we're experiencing, the multiple crises we're experiencing, because of the pandemic and all the people who's also scaring it. But it was just Manuel de Pedrolo, in his book When Cal, there's all of us! , which said: « Catalunya has always come back after the great storms, it will do it a little more. That is why, now, despite these moments of uncertainty, it is also and we want it to be a moment of hope, of reneging, of referring, of rebuilding, of transforming, of passing from that Republican Generality of the thirties to the new Republican Generality of the twenty-first century. I would like to thank candidate Aragones and the future president of the Catalan Government who shared the country visit, all the ambitious proposals to be on the side of the people who today have been degreasing at the length of this investment debate. The new Republican Generality will be a government on the side of the people, progressive, transformative, deeply feminist, uncomplexedly ecological and radically democratic. And, obviously, we are, because it's ours, the government program that the candidate presented to us this morning. Because what moves us is to help the people, to help the people of this country, and therefore, to always be guarantors of rights and freedoms at all times: right to salvation, social rights, right to education, as have been and are the open and secure schools, right for all women with effective and real equality, right to culture, right to defend our language, both Catalan and Orange, to have territorial equity, because without equity between the people the country has not felt. Without fighting the climate emergency, the country will not be. That's why we're talking about a republican government, a cross-cutting government, and committed to global reptes. We are very clear about the project and the priorities to be pursued by this new government: a government next to the people, a feminist government, a useful government since the minute u. And the social rescue, effectively, must be one of the priorities, rebuild the country, an indispensable job. And for us, it is also clear, this government, to put the foundations of the Catalan Republic and to make possible, therefore, the independence of our country. And we want to make this rescue, this reconstruction for the people, for the people above all the most vulnerable, the people who suffer the most; for the young, that if they see a future or imagine a future at this time, they see with anguish and frustration; for the workers who can get out, but those who also have complicated or have more problems to enhance the blind; for the SEPE to suffer from shame and for all those autonomies that are also difficult; for the families, who have to make hands and hands, the past months more than ever; for the latter to have over the burden of disclaimers. It is urgent, it is urgent that we address all this; it is urgent to make a common front here. These people can't wait, the country can't wait, and probably a lot of the people in our country are sick of baroque discussions that no one understands once we dig the doors of the Ciutadella Park. Today Catalonia needs a president, it needs a government with full functions and a government also with full national ambition. We cannot, therefore, refrain from doing the work that the people expect of us. Today we can get out..., we can get out of here with a government on condition that we immediately deploy the Pla for economic recovery and social protection, which contemplates more than 31,000_million euros in specific actions to boost the economy for life, digitalization, the economic transition, the society of knowledge and a cross-cutting gender perspective. We have a full Generality that leads the capture and deployment of European foundations. We can only get out of this crisis, and that's the way out, if we apply different receipts to the previous crisis. At that time they were detailed and austerity, and now it's more social and economic investment for people and for the country. We need these funds and these resources to transform essential sectors of our economy, such as tourism, such as automobiles, such as health care, petrochemicals, agri-food, to generate new industries, to lead a fully sustainable knowledge economy. And yes, we want a transformative and transparent government too: zero tolerance, as always, with corruption. And in this, too, the facts support us for themselves: Left Republican with ninety years of history, with a public service vocation and without a corruption case. A trajectory that we want to pose to the public administration of this country in order to deploy a pro-, efficient and transparent republican administration. This is the government we want, because we believe that it is the best government for the country, that it is the best government for the people. Therefore, before this social crisis, we have to rescue the country socially; before the economic crisis, we have to reactivate the economy to rebuild the country and also transform it, and before the democratic crisis and the outpouring of freedoms and rights that we suffer, we have to refer again to the exercise of self-determination and amnesty. That is why we also want, that is why we will also make it possible for this government to compromise with independence and which allows us to move forward, which allows us to complete the path towards the Catalan Republic; only a Catalan republic, with the republic alone, can we finally complete the reconstruction and transformation of our country and the social rescue that the people who need to be helped deserve. Only with the Catalan Republic, apart from rescuing and rebuilding the country, can they also end the relentless repression of this State, which is the only answer that offers us: repression, repression and repression. Just at this point, therefore, I want to take advantage of the freedom, as it cannot otherwise be, of the companies: of the Oriol, of the Carme, of the Raül, of the Pain, of the Jordis, of the Josep, of the Quim, of the Jordi, of our companies and companies that are unjustly engaged, unjustly condemned for more than three years. As we also have all the exiled companies and companies, from which we also demand freedom and therefore their return: the Marta, President Puigdemont, the Toni, the Clara, the Anna, the Lluís. And we're happy to have you here a few days ago, the Meritxell, among us, despite the fact that your repression is not over yet. [[Greetings.]] Today and every day we are well aware that in our country there are practically three-thousand people retaliated to be independent – to be independent – for more, and for having defended, yes, freedom, democracy, for having defended the ballot boxes, for having defended the future of this country. And that, obviously, has to be done. It has to be able to resolve democratically and politically. That is why this government must also be determined and must be decisive in overcoming and ending repression. In this way to the Catalan Republic, from the Republican Left know how to do it. Anyway, we imagined, we analyzed, we proposed a way to do it. We have explained this on various occasions: to gain definitively the country that we imagine, the Catalan Republic, we want to continue summating, to be more, to be stronger, to return there and to win definitively. October 1st we won, we won in the State. The collective force, at that time, of the institutions, together with the people, with the complicity, with the civic mobilization, with the popular organization, all this democratic force served to defeat the State, effectively. But that victory, that great victory, which is one of the greatest victories that we have been able to live in our country, was not possible, it was not possible to materialize the objective, which is to have a Catalan republic already in our country. This is why we need to gather the lessons of October, to preserve the strengths that we have and that we continue to have, working those fevers and being able to take on a series of challenges to prepare ourselves better, to generate the conditions that make it possible, as I said before, that we can return and that, in this case, we can definitely win. And, yes, we think that the best way, that the best instrument to make it there is a reference, because it is that instrument, that tool that allows everyone to vote – in the morning the candidate explained it – both the ones of yes and the ones of no, ask everyone in our country. And we also say that the best way to achieve this reference is through a negotiation process, a democratic process; therefore, to be able to have a treaty reference to our country, without police violence at the gates of electoral colleges. And it is true, with all the world's scepticism – which is also ours, this scepticism – but also with all conviction, we do not believe that it is very clever to give the flag of the dialect to our adversaries, to give the flag of the negotiation, this flag which is well-preserved at international level and which is also, even internally, for the sake of legitimacy and democratic fortitude..., so we do not believe that it is intelligent to give the flag of the negotiation or of the dialogue to our adversaries, which in this case is the State. That is why we defended a negotiation process where the Catalan proposal is clear. It's country consensus. The answers that generate the most consensus to our society: self-determination and amnesty. And we want to move from justice to politics. We want to move from threats to dialogue and negotiation. We want to move from sentiments and condemnations to democracy. And we want to move from disqualifications, from prison and exile, to amnesty. So sure is our bet on politics, as we obviously understand that this probably won't be enough, because we don't have a democratic state before. And that is why we need to combine this strategy of the accumulation of forces, or, in any case, this strategy of negotiation and fortification in negotiations, with a process of preparation and accumulation of forces, in order to be able to deploy and set up a new battle; a new democratic debate must be held on a paper, certainly civil disobedience, yes, of course, and we must continue to work to build up stronger in the municipal arena, in popular mobilization, in the international arena generating more complicity, stronger in all the strategic sectors, such as economics or trade unions, to be more, to be stronger. Because any step that we take forward is applicable and can be sustained. We're going to have to regain strategic consensus, obviously. A consensus that we want in a shared and cross-cutting way. And yes, we also repeat here that the Council for the Republic is a necessary instrument, and sometimes you know, we know and share among all that needs to be reformulated. So-so-there. To do all this we need all those who share the Catalan Republic project. Where are the discrepancies with this full route we're explaining from the Republican Left? Where are those disagreements that make it impossible for us to have this majority of seventy-four Members and Members here today? What is it that they don't like about this strategy, this proposal that we explain in an open and open way from the Republican Left? We find many shared points, or so many shared points that would already make possible an agreement. In fact, with the UPC we have come to an agreement, a point of finding despite the distances and despite the differences. Today those who will not be at the sum of the seventy-four independent deputies will be the deputies and deputies of Juntes for Catalonia. Those who will not make the 52_per_cent unit possible will be you, the deputies of Junts for Catalonia. The result of the elections was that before we had been given the mandate, too, to agree, and, in fact, to make this mandate to agree and that there is no strong majority, no absolute majority, makes it work all our lives, all the proposals that we are defending among all of us. And this means that we must combine our strengths and strategies, as we also propose from the Republican Left. So-so-there. Don't look for more excuses. On this path of the resolution of the conflict and of this bet for self-determination and amnesty, I also address the whole chamber, but especially the members of the Socialist Party. They know that this is the way, this way of democratic resolution, of our country's consensus, it is the way to solve the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State. This path goes by to vote. This path goes through the freedom of prisoners and prisoners, the return of exiles and, therefore, the end of repression. But I think it is not just that you know, that you know, that you have to bet on the democratic resolution of the conflict and probably appeal to consensus as well, but that you also know most of your voters, the Socialist Party voters who are also in favour of a referendum and are also in favour of the release of prisoners and political pressure. Seventy-seven_per_cent of Catalans and Catalans are shown against prisoners and political media, including 45_per_cent of Ciutadans voters and 70_per_cent of PSC voters. Therefore, the diems, to the socialist lords and lords, who are no longer aligned with the block of 155, the block that covers the shames of the corrupt monarchy, the block that poses in question the most fundamental rights as that of worthy habitat, the block that decides before vetoing the law of amnesty rather than repealing the law of mordasse, the block that prefers to continue suppressing independence than to make a sanitary cord to the extreme right, the block of the 78's rule. They can sort. The members of the PSC can sort out whether they continue to strengthen this bloc or if they want to join the country's majority consensus on this path of dialogue, negotiation, democracy, amnesty and, therefore, to make and exercise the most democratic right. I'm done. I ended up with a direct reference to candidate Aragonès. Count on the support of the Republican Left. It's obvious, but we didn't want to stop saying it. Today. You count on this support today, Tuesday, when you need it and especially when you're president. Allow me a more personal reference. And they say that personal is also political. Dad, we've known each other for over 15 years. God don't do it! Then we were younger, but with the same ideals. We forged the youth struggle through the Young Republican Left of Catalonia, the JERCs, and we believed, while we did youth camps, training days, youth rights campaigns, we believed, while we did all this, that everything was possible. Then perhaps we still didn't know everything about the future, that we were living one of the most glorious days of our history and of our country, such as the U of October, or that in the toughest moments of post-Franquist repression in our country it would be up to us to take the relay and move to the first line in the Republican Left before the hour. What we imagined fifteen years ago now we can do: a leadership of the country from Republicanism, with the stake for independence from the left. You made a speech and a debate worthy of the President of Catalonia. You've shown the country to its head, the strength to its hands, and the courage to its color. You've proven that you know what you want for Catalonia and what people in this country need. Perhaps – in fact, I'm sure – today you won't have the votes you need to become president. But hopes cannot be postponed forever, nor can dreams of this country be reduced because of party lookers. Which seems impossible, sometimes it just takes a little bit longer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.72.0	It should be over, Mrs. Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.73.0	I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.74.0	He's wasted his time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.75.0	I'm done, President. If it's not today, it'll be late. We work, therefore, to make it possible. From here we're holding hands again and again in Juntes for Catalonia because after today's vote we'll have three, four days. Take advantage of them. We didn't give up making it possible. It does not continue to refrain from the responsibility to take advantage of this opportunity. As the esteemed Raül Romeva tells us, "we go and follow with a high head, a long gaze, a verb will be and an extended hand, a good way to keep moving forward with firmness and decided towards the Catalan Republic of freedom, justice and prosperity for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.76.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Pere Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.77.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, deputy Vilalta, deputies of the Republican Left of Catalonia, I would like to begin by saying that it is an honor for me to be the candidate of the Republican Left of Catalonia for the presidency of the Generality. It is an honor to represent a party of ninety years of history, which adds, in its long name of service to the country, the names of Presidents Macia, Companies, Irla and Tarradellas. When you look back on the history of these ninety years of compromises for the republic, for social justice, for the freedom of Catalonia, you feel a great responsibility. And, therefore, I feel a great responsibility and an honour at the time of representing the most retaliatory party of Catalonia's history, but also the party of the persistent, of the determined people, of the people determined in the republican values of freedom, equality and fraternity; the party that has made of the sums of various people, of the sums of diverse political traditions of the Catalan national left, the way to grow and to represent the whole country. If today I submit my candidacy to the presidency of the Generality in this investment debate, I do so because I am accompanied by many women and men on this path. And I will quote two people to whom I would especially like to thank the support, determination and trust: Oriol Junqueras and Marta Rovira. [[Greetings.]] I am in charge, in this later intervention before the vote, at the assembly of Members of the House, but also at the assembly, especially, of Members of this independent majority. I thank the deputies of the Republican Left and the CUP for their vote in favour of the investiture. I'll work to be on the rise, trusted. I also want to address the Junts Independence MPs who are not yet giving their vote in favour. We, the people of the Republican Left, have always been there. On the other hand, we've always been there. For the first time since the year 2012, the independentist candidate in the investiture debates will not win the vote of what the political space of Junts represents. This was 2012, 2015, 2016 and 2018. On all these occasions, Esquerra Republicana gave her favorable vote; also in this legislature when it was a matter of giving confidence to the Bureau of Parliament with President Laura Borràs. We have done so because we believe that it is precisely the way to help forge agreements, that in many cases they have not been easy, but that I am convinced that this must show us that, sooner than later, an agreement is needed to unlock the temporary and interim situation that has been pouring into the country for too long. Mass interinatge time, mass provisionality time. We can't let more time pass, because we have too much lost time. Lost, because we do not have a government with full functions, because of repression, which can fully defend, with all functions, the rights of Catalonia, which are the rights of its people. Call us tomorrow, if you like. Let's call each other and work for twenty-four hours a day because from now on until the next investment vote we have an agreement. I think it has been clear in this debate that there are not so many things that separate us, that in fact, on previous occasions – I mentioned 2012, the 15, the 16, the 18 – there were bigger situations that separated us, and in many of these cases, in a short time, we agreed. I'll put everything on my side – everything on my side. And I want to address myself at last to the country's side and to all citizens and to all their citizens making a clear compromise. From a republican conviction of left and independence I will rule for everyone, for all the citizens of this country, think as they think, have voted to who voted, with the maximum ambition and with all the compromise, because this country deserves it all. A country that must think of great, that must have the greatest ambition of prosperity and freedom, that are, in short, prosperity and freedom and the rights of the people who live there. We want to build a new republican generality that reconciles the institutions of this country with all its citizens, through the guarantee of social and economic rights, civil and political, and with the defense of public services. We want to bring forward a new way of governing, the closer, the more they land, as President Maragall quoted this morning, with a transformative vocation. I'm done. I submit my candidacy because I want to be in the service of Catalonia honestly, with all its diversity, with all its plurality and with all its ambition. And I present my candidacy, because through the presidency of the Generalitat I want to do my job, as Salvador Espriu said to La pell de brau, as the humblest of the servants, to the service of the citizenry of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.78.0	Thank you very much. We shall therefore proceed to the vote at this time, with the statements made by the representatives of the parliamentary groups. According to Rule 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and Government and Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, because the successful candidate invested has to obtain the votes of the absolute majority. This choice also includes approval of the government program. As has already been announced, the vote is public and by cry. It will vote in alphabetical order, starting for the deputy whose name you came out of by lot. [[The president takes a ball with the number of the deputy for whom the roll-call vote has to begin.]] That number that came out is number 16 and it's the deputy Joan Canadell. Please, so... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, so... be quiet, please. I pray, therefore, to the third secretary, Pau Juvillà, and second, Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas, to call the names of the deputies and deputies. And when that name is named, answer the honourable Members with yes or no abstention. You know that the members of the Bureau will vote at the end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.79.0	Joan Canadell i Bruguera : « Abstention. Eva Candela Lopez: "No. Dolors Carreras Casany : « No. Carlos Carrizosa Torres : « No. Cristina Casol Segués : « Abstention. Carles Castillo Rosique : « Yes. Basha Changue Canalejo: "Yes. David Cid Colomer: "No. Bartomeu Conte Masmitjà: "Yes. Dani Cornellà Detrell: "Yes. Francesc de Dalmases i Thió : « Abstention. Jenn Díaz Ruiz : « Yes. Elena Díaz Torrevejano : « No. Najat Driuech Ben Moussa: "Yes. Anna Maria Erra i Solà : « Abstention. Assume Escarp Gibert: "No. Ramon Swordler Partners: "No. Mercè Esteve i Pi : « Abstention. Laia Estrada Canon : « Yes. Ferran Estruch i Torrents : « Yes. Jordi Fàbrega and Sabaté : « Abstention. Anna Feliu Moragues : « Abstention. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez : « No. Juli Fernández and Olivares: "Yes. Lucas Silvano Ferro Sole : « No. Antoni Flores i Ardiaca : « Yes. Gloria Freixa and Vilardell: "Forbearance. Jordina Freixanet i Pardo: "Yes. Antonio Gallego Burgos : « No. Joan Carles Gallego i Herrera: "No. Maria Elisa García Fuster: "No. Mario García Gómez : « No. Joan García González: "No. Joan Carles Garcia Guillamon : « Abstention. Rocío García Pérez : « No. Joan Garriga Doménech: "No. Ignacio Garriga Vaz de Concicao : « No. Gemma Geis i Carreras : « Abstention. Pol Gibert Horcas: "No. Cristófol Gimeno Iglesias : « No. David González Chanca: "No. Jessica González Herrera: "No. Anna Grau Arias : « No. Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé: "No. Salvador Illa i Roca: "No. Jordi Jordan Farnos : « No. Josep Maria Jové Lladó : « Yes. Maria Assumption Laïlla Jou : « Abstention. Isabel Lázaro Pina : « No. Gemma Lienas Massot: "No. Lluïsa Llop and Fernández: "Yes. Antonio Ramón López Gómez : « No. Monica Lora Cisquer: "No.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.80.0	Sergio Macián de Greef: "No. Aurora Madaula and Giménez: "Abstention. Marta Madrenas and Mir: "Forbearance. Ernest Maragall i Mira: "Yes. Ignacio Martín Blanco : « No. Engelbert Montalà i Pla: "Yes. Pau Morales i Romero : « Yes. Raúl Moreno Montaña : « No. Marta Moreta Rovira: "No. Jordi Munell and Garcia: "Forbearance. Esther Niubó Cidoncha : « No. Óscar Ordeig i Molist : « No. Mònica Palacín and Paris : « Yes. Joaquim Paladella Shorto : « No. Teresa Pallarès Piqué: "Abstention. Silvia Paneque Sureda : « No. Eva Parera i Escrichs: "No. Marc Parés Franzi: "No. Xavier Pellicer Couple: "Yes. David Pérez Ibáñez: "No. Núria Picas Albets : « Yes. Lluís Puig Gordi : « Abstention. [[Perlongats applause.]] Eulàlia Reguant i Cura: "Yes. Jordi Riba Colom: "No. Carles Riera Albert : « Yes. Mònica Ríos García : « No. Josep Rius and Alcaraz: "Forbearance. Lorena Roldán Suárez : « No. Sylvia Romero Galera : « No. Ferran Roquer and Padrosa: "Forbearance. Juan Luis Ruiz López: "No. Maria Dolors Sabater i Puig: "Yes. Sergi Sabria and Benito: "Yes. Mònica Sales de la Cruz : « Abstention. Josep Lluís Salvadó Tenesa : « Yes. Raquel Sans Guerra: "Yes. Susana Segovia Sánchez: "No. Meritxell Serret i Aleu: "Yes. Beatriz Silva Gallardo : « No. Alberto Tarradas Paneque : « No. Francesc Ten i Costa : « Abstention. Jordi Terrades Santacreu: "No. Judith Toronjo Nofuentes : « Abstention. Roger Torrent Ramíó: "Yes. Salvador Vergés and Tejero: "Forbearance. Laura Vilagrà Pons: "Yes. Marta Vilalta i Torres : « Yes. Montserrat Vinyets Pagès : « Yes. Maria Jesús Viña i Ariño: "Yes. Rubén Viñuales Elias : « No.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.81.0	Manuel Jesús Acosta Elias: "No. Jordi Albert i Caballero : « Yes. Jessica Albiach Satorres: "No. Judith Alcalá González: "No. Matías Alonso Ruiz : « No. Oscar Aparicio Pedrosa: "No. Irene Aragonès Gràcia : « Yes. Elsa Artadi and Vila: "Forbearance. Anna Balsera i Marín : « Yes. Albert Batet i Canadell : « Abstention. Maria Antònia Batlle i Andreu : « Abstention. Helena Bayo Delgado : « No. Andrés Bello Sanz : « No. Marina Bravo Sobrino: "No. Eusebi Campdepadrós and Pucurull : « Abstention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.82.0	Alicia Romero Llano : « No. Meritxell Budo and Pla : « Abstention. Damia Calvet Valera: "Forbearance. Esther Capella Farré: "Yes. Chakir the Homrani Lesfar : « Yes. Teresa Jordan and Roura: "Yes. Jordi Puigneró and Ferrer : « Abstention. Ramon Tremosa Balcells : « Abstention. Alba Vergés i Bosch: "Yes. Pere Aragonès Garcia : « Yes. Ruben Wagensberg Ramon : « Yes. Pau Juvillà Ballester: "Yes. Jaume Alonso-Cuevillas and Sayrol: "Forbearance. Ferran Pedret i Santos: "No. Eva Granados Galiano : « No. Anna Caula i Paretas : « Yes. Laura Borràs and Castanyer: "Forbearance. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-03-26-0201.83.0	Quiet, and please. The result of the vote was the following: 42 yes, 61 no, 32 abstentions. As Mr. Pere Aragonès in this vote did not obtain the absolute majority established by Article 4.3 of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality and Government and in accordance with Article 4.4 of the Law, the candidate may submit to a _second debate and a _second vote, in which the majority will be simple enough. Before I finish, the same way that I started the Ple speaking of reprisals, feminicides and migrant people, I want to end by mentioning the diminutive xifra of covid deaths until today: 21,207 lost lives. Finally, also in accordance with criteria of austerity and conciliation and fully in force in the order, the session will resume on the 30th of March to the gods of the morning. Thank you very much, the session was over.
