ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.1.0	Good morning, deputies. Before starting this plenary, with the first session of control of the new government, I take the opportunity to welcome all the councillors, who are separated by the preceptive cabinets and, therefore, with a certain visible discomfort. Therefore, ask them, therefore, patience, because these are the measures that have established the servants of the chamber in order to be able to complete with the conditions of security. [[Condemnation demonstration of homophobic violence]] I would like to make it clear that yesterday the Board of Spokesmen, with votes in favour of all the groups in the chamber with one exception, approved a declaration of condemnation of the most serious attacks, homophobic attacks that have taken place this week. With the President of Parliament, I absolutely condemn these facts and I have transferred them to the victims. I take this opportunity to send a cordial greeting to Michael, who is the victim who suffered in a more brutal way this violence, with whom I had occasion to speak after leaving the operation that he required for the brutal pallissa to which he was object. We are talking about intolerable, inhumane attacks, which must not have a head-on head in our society. And, therefore, with this statement, this chamber shows its total and frontal rebuff, and we obviously expressed our support for the victims. As representatives of the citizens of Catalonia, we have the duty not only to change speeches, but also to transform reality so that no one else can suffer this violence. So good that these words, which are today of rebuff and indignation against intolerable attacks, can also be quick of celebration of freedom to be as it is and to be esteemed as it is to be. For what he does to the ciphers in relation to the covid, we have an accumulated cipher of 22,182 deaths. Before yesterday we were able to celebrate that there was no death for this cause. It's obvious that we have good news, as much as the best way to get back to normality is not to lower the guard. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also in compliance with the motion 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operation in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that according to the data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2021 773 people dead and disappeared in the Mediterranean have been counted. Even in this framework of the quota and of the voting delegations, I would like to say that, in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen on the small-scale celebration of the plenary sessions, together with the current circumstances of the pandemic, there are sixty-four Members who have delegated their vote for this plenary session. And before moving on to the first point of the order of the day, I also venture that the Board of Spokesmen agreed to forward to the plenary the proposal to withdraw the Proposition of the Law of Reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of the penal code, of decriminalization of euthanasia and of aid to suicide. For this reason, the information of the inclusion of this new item in the order of the day, which will be substantiated in continuation of point number 8. And then again, the reminder that the list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's file. And according to Rule 164, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item on the order of the day of this plenary session that we are starting right now. The first point of the order of the day are questions with oral answer. [[Ask the Government about the orientation of digital and territorial policies]] [[310-00032/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the orientation of digital and territorial policies. The question is posed by Ms. Elsa Artadi, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Vice-President, many congratulations on your appointment. I take the opportunity to wish the new government all the uncertainties in the responsibility to serve the citizenry. The elections of last February 14th were marked by two urgent events: the democratic emergence that our country sees and that will only resolve with amnesty and the exercise of the right to self-determination, and the need to address the economic and social crisis resulting from the pandemic. Do it with everyone, making sure we don't leave anyone behind. At the same time, policies aimed at resolving these two emergencies must be compatible with the great challenge we have with the country, which is to apply truly transformative policies, in order to ensure an intelligent, sustainable, balanced and inclusive growth. In the later legislature, when for the first time the Digital Policy Department was formed, not everyone heard it. Not everyone took it seriously. Today I want to congratulate you for being brave, for being a pioneer – because we see similar structures in Europe – and congratulations on the work done. In fact, this new department that now encapsulates it, Digital Policies and Territories, is surely the result of this good work done. It must be the key department for this transformation that is urgently needed in our country. Because, with the recovery of self-government, the regattas were improved, health services were built in all the regions, our municipalities – sports, school, cultural equipment – were equipped, and the public transport network was improved throughout the country, today, all these needs are added to one of the unmissable, which is access to information, access to technology, access to data. Because there will be no territorial cohesion and there will be no social cohesion if we do not guarantee this access for everyone, who lives where he lives, has the situation he has. That is why we are asking you today, from the Group of Joints for Catalonia, about the main policies you plan to develop your department to ensure equal opportunities for everyone, so that you can develop your vital, personal and professional project in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.3.0	Thank you very much. To answer, has the word Mr. Puigneró, Vice President and Advisor of Digital Policies and Territories. But I take this opportunity to say that they use the word with the masquerade inn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.4.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very good day, Congresswoman, Members of Parliament. Mirin, with the vice president of the government, in this legislature I've marked, I could say, two great goals, huh? The first, obviously, is to move forward with this project of the Catalan Republic. But also as important as the first and, therefore, connected, is to make this country a country of progress. And today, in the 21st century, being a country of progress means being a connected country. A country connected by land, a country connected by sea, a country connected by air and even by cyberspace. Therefore, the great challenge we have in this legislature is to work because this country has 21st century infrastructures, which will surely incorporate those that we already have in the 20th century, adapt them, transform them and add new ones. We have been an industrial country and the infrastructure has been closed, we have to move goods and people; now we also have to be a digital country, and therefore we have to be able to move bits and megabits. This will be the key to the competitiveness of our country. Do not be a social country in the 21st century, if we are not also a digital country. And this economic progress we have to be able to spread across the whole territory. We must be a balanced country; a sustainable country. We have to be a country, as I always say, that it's not a country there..., xupa-xup, huh? A country with a very big head and a very small body. We need to vertebrate the territory and we need to make it possible for this progress to come all the way. I, therefore, the infrastructure must be understood as a territorial closure. Finally, this country cannot afford the luxury of not having an airport prepared for the economy of the 21st century. That is why yesterday the government, with the president, decided to approve a first measure, which is an institutional table to address what this airport needs Barcelona and which also needs all Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.5.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about research policies]] [[310-00033/13]] He asked the Government, to answer orally in the plenary, about research policies. Asks the question to Mr Ferran Roquer, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.6.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor Geis... It is a pleasure, it is a pleasure for me to ask you this first question at the same time as I congratulate you on your appointment, to you and to the rest of the members of the Government. Now more than ever, with the pandemic, the system or the importance of having a good knowledge system. Searching is a foundational pillar for building a robust society that is able to cope with emergencies and limited situations. Catalonia is one of the main European regions in fund-raising. Without going further, the year 2014 and year 2020, Catalonia's search system has captured €1,500_million from the Horizon 2020 programme, representing 2.5_percent of the total. This is very significant if we take into account that Catalonia represents only 1.5_percent of the population or 1.6_percent of GDP. The search system of Catalonia conforms 30 researchers and 1,444 recognizable search groups for the Generality, 1,680 start-ups, 315 spin-off universities and 30 nous centres Cerca i 17 of the CSIC. The National Agreement for the Knowledge Society contained strategic agreements to deal with the challenges of Catalonia. The Platform for Economic Recovery and Social Protection developed for Korea and the Catalonia Next Generation report highlight knowledge as one of the main axes of the economic and social and institutional model to which Catalonia wants to advance. We know the importance of knowledge policies. We ask you, counsel, who are the most immediate priorities with which your department works in the field of research.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.7.0	To answer, has the word Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.8.0	Well, good morning, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors... Today is my first intervention after assuming the responsibility of being the Research and University Councillor. And, therefore, I am dealing with this phase with the will of consensus. In fact, this was a demand for a country, for building a country. And so, these days I've already met with the Rectors, with the Rector, I've talked to the directors of the Search Centers, I've talked to researchers, with researchers, with the PAS unions, with some student unions and, therefore, to build this country strategy from the unit. The truth is that I have been able to consolidate that everyone will surely share that Catalonia has a solid base of knowledge, but it must go much further. In fact, going further means putting us on the European standards of the capdavant countries in knowledge. And I believe that the indispensable tool, to which you refer, Mr Roquer, is the National Pact for the Society of Knowledge, which was a pact that came with the consensus of the university community, of the scientific community. In addition to this pact, there is a government agreement, a legislature agreement, which establishes the will to achieve GDP at 2.12_percent at the end of the legislature, which means more than 0.75_percent of the public funding of our universities, our search system. Because I think we need, as soon as possible, the law of science. The law of science has been paralyzed from the unjust disqualification of President Torra, and it allows us to pose and forge a system of science, knowledge, more modern than that which is being presented to the Spanish government. And, therefore, I believe that this is extremely important, so that we have to work on this law of science as a matter of priority. Because in the end, research is talent, it's knowledge, it's territorial vertebration, it's economic progress, but it's also social progress. The research has this social dimension of inclusion in the gender perspective. And, therefore, all this..., I believe that Catalonia is now, through the consensus and the need that we have all shaped during this time, that research, talent, our universities are equipped with a system of funding just from knowledge, because Catalonia is as close as the European countries that are at the forefront of this knowledge society and Catalonia can take this step, which I believe is now, after the pandemic and as it has been shown, that it is possible to move forward with a country that is at the forefront of research and knowledge, so Catalonia can move forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.9.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about the evolution of the Covid-19 pandemic]] [[310-00034/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the evolution of the covid pandemic. The question is posed by Mrs. Assumption Laïlla, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.10.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, before anything else, congratulate him, to you and to the rest of the execution, for his appointment and to wish them all the uncertainties of the world for this parliamentary term that begins. In any case, to you, especially, to thank him that he takes this turn to lead the salvation of our country in a post-pandemic moment, we could say, but a moment still transcendent, because, as Winston Churchill said, the best gift that can be made to a country is precisely the salvation of its citizenship. Therefore, thank you also for taking this step. And, obviously, when we talk about covid-19, what we can't do is stop agrarian, once more, also from this hemicle, the work that the health personnel have done – that they have done, that they do and that they will do – as well as all those management teams and those non-care or non-essential personnel who have also been at the front line in this fight against the pandemic. And also to the citizenry, because we have talked a lot about prevention and I think that we also have to thank the citizenry for the effort it has made to follow all the preventive recommendations of life and positive salvation in this pandemic and that, therefore, this has also helped us to reverse this tendency that we had until this negative moment and that now, in these last months, obviously, we have positive epidemiological data that make us hope for as we enter this future of the pandemic, but also forcing not to lower the guard. We have, therefore, a downward mortality, we have the most vulnerable population with a lower incidence, we have less pressure on intensive care units. And that, as I said, is thanks also to this preventive task and to these, at these times, cows that we all have now..., we have plans, right? for all the population depending on their age fringes. The vaccine... I think they shared with me that the worst vaccine is the one they don't own, the one that doesn't get in our arms. So, from this microphone, what we could ask the counselor is, like, what the government is planning, especially with the cows, but also in the whole field you are planning in these own months so as to turn the trout and return, therefore, to this certain normality that we all want. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.11.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.12.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, as Mrs Laïlla rightly said, the first will be a thank you, extend this thank you to all these professionals, to all this team, because this is a job and a team job. A team that has also been leading the entire pandemic and vaccination part and continues throughout its thick precisely leading this vaccination, this vaccination campaign and this fight against the cove. As you say, data is favorable. At these times we may be stagnant and we may be stagnant a few more days around four thousand cases a week. This, in part, is because we have greatly reduced the incidence in these..., in these age fringes where we have already begun to immunize and, therefore, we have drastically reduced mortality, the incidence and above all the incidence of severe illness, which is what we are most concerned about, but also, certainly, these younger age fringes, under fifty, still this incidence is increasing precisely because the vaccine has not yet arrived. Let's hope that we can begin to immunize this age range from forty to forty-nine years. It's a stretch of age that still risks getting sick, getting sick hard, it's important. Therefore, here the focus will be key, put this focus. There is also another element that we need to put from the vanguard point of view and follow with the cows, which is those people when we get to a certain level of vaccination, or to adhere to vaccination, for example, now in the group of fifty, fifty-nine are around 60_per_cent, where we need to start a job of looking for those people, of proactively looking for those people who have not yet been vaccinated, ask why, ask if they want to get vaccinated and this is a cool job that is being done by primary care teams to get to that collective protection. Remember that the vaccine is an individual thing; it certainly protects us individually, but what is most important is this collectivity. And lastly, we also thank the local world, because it has also been filled with all the places and spaces that we have used so that the vaccine can be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.13.0	Thank you very much. [[Ask the Government about the economic and fiscal foundations and the purposes of the future management of the Economic and Historical Councillor]] [[310-00031/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the economic and fiscal foundations and the purposes of the future management of the Economic and Historical Councillor. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Carles Gallego, of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.14.0	Good morning to all of you. Good morning, Mr. Counselor, first of all, congratulate him and wish him luck and uncertainty. You know that for our group, the fact that you have this proximity with the management teams of the great commercial companies of the IBEX 35 does not generate us very much confidence that in leading economic and social recovery to the service of the majority of the country, right? For this reason, what we would like to know, what we would like to ask you is what orientations, what economic philosophy you think hard forward in the policy before the council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.15.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.16.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. First of all, tell him that the foundations will be the basic foundations of the economy and fiscal policy that help the country, its citizens and its entrepreneurs, the research centres that were now developing, to take advantage of the favourable winds and the extraordinary resources that will come in order to be able to reactivate a firm, solid recovery of the economy and also help socially that no one is left behind. These will be the sources.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.17.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.18.0	Thank you, but look, don't trust us. I mean, don't give us the answer. You, according to a study published by the Digital Critical magazine, have been directed by more than sixty-eight commercial companies that have acted, have operated in countries where human rights are not respected, and have led investments in countries that do not respect the environment, right? Is that why we are concerned and would be pleased that it is our responsibility, in relation to the leadership of economic policy, which is the level of transparency and participation... Will you count on the representatives of business and trade union organisations, with local administrations to push economic policies forward, or will you simply be in the service of the pressures that business lobbyists or the appointment of digital experts from within the same government? We are also concerned, when we talk about public-private collaboration, whether public and private collaboration will be used to lead, strengthen the public sector that leads the country's economic and social transformation process, or simply public-private collaboration will serve to grapple again, as it did these years, the private sector, the commercial sector and, therefore, derive benefits that should be devoted to public service, to the private sector. And we're also worried about the taxation we're thinking of going forward. If we are to bring forward a progressive taxation, a fair taxation, a green taxation, or if we are to continue with the policies of fiscal gifts, tax subsidies that will serve to build an economic model and provide us with sufficient resources to be able, precisely, to bring forward those policies that may be in the service of the country's social majority, of territorial balance and of respect for the environment. This is what we would like to know, this is what we are not and this is what we would like to know, participation and transparency, progressive and fair taxation and, obviously, a model of public and private cooperation that strengthens the private sector. We'll be watching over his economic policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.19.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.20.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Deputy, 15 days ago I accepted the honour and responsibility of being a councillor of the Government of Catalonia. That same day, for the night, I got vaccinated, but I didn't get vaccinated against the cove, I got vaccinated against all the criticisms I was sure they were in, surprisingly, from one band and another, because I think I've been disinherited, if ever I've been part of what you were talking about right now. Second of all, let him know that I've never been in charge of any company in these countries that have been published. I have not answered any other criticism, because I know it will be constant, probably, at the length of this mandate. I haven't had a job, I haven't been a counselor, I haven't been direct, I haven't been employed by any company in Libya, Guinea..., Kazakhstan, Peru, Ecuador. I've never signed a paper or a contract from these companies. My résumé explains very clearly – I think that few counselors have been literally undressed in as little time as I – where I have been and where I have not been. And my commitment to social sensitivity and to the country is out of doubt for anyone who knows me a little bit. I hope I can prove it. At the level of economic policies, I am very grateful that you are following us. And I'm telling you one thing, in the end, Albert Einstein said that it's easier to disintegrate an atom than a harm. I trust that some damage can also disintegrate. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.21.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the reform of the public security model. [[Ask the Government about the reform of the public security model]] [[310-00029/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. What will be the reform of the public security model imposed on it by a party that supports violence like the UPC?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.23.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.24.0	Well, first, in the first place, I would like to start, before answering the question, thanking all the public servers and particularly the workers and public servers of the council – Mossos d'Esquadra, Protección Civil, Agents Rurals, Bombers – the work they have done during this toughness – hardness, hardness – year. They've made a big pocket, they've made a giant servant, and it seems to me that we have to thank him for all the servant they've made in the city. Regarding the question, it is not easy in twenty-five words to say two lies, but I was sure that if anyone could get it it it was you. The CUP has not imposed a security model; the CUP has participated in a shared reflection process in relation to the governance of this country, which I want to thank them for. And second of all, the CUP is not an organization that promotes violence. I can't honestly see myself saying the same as you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.25.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.26.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Counsellor, your members of the legislature have defended a personal humiliation based on painting at the Mossos d'Esquadra that only complements judicial sentences. And they are not the culprits, the police, that you are violently occupying them or that there is a lack of social life. Its members of the legislature have legitimized the violence against urban furniture in Barcelona to defend a criminal like Pablo Hasél, who has been sentenced for the height of terrorism. And they caused terror to the citizenry, which did not get out of the house. Their members of the legislature have demanded that they withdraw from court cases against alleged separatist radical criminals and even against criminals who attack our police. And look, Mr. Counselor, when any normal person goes down the street and the police are found, so they have little and no peace, because the police, the Mossos are the guarantee of compliments of the law; the police, the Mossos are the guarantee of security: the police, in this case the Mossos, and in democracy, are the devices of the legitimate use of force. And that is why, Mr Councillor, from the Parliamentary Group of VOX in Catalonia we demand that the police need and that their partners do not want them to grant them: depoliticization of the body; second, increase Brimo with a total of 100 seats per year until 2025; a good equipment with protective means such as foam or what is needed to ensure their safety and security for all; convene the safety board and develop the safety plan. Because, in short, insecurity is unsustainable in our home and harms citizens and the social and economic well-being of our esteemed Catalan region. We want to be safer, we want to go out on our own and we want Catalonia to stop leading the crime in all of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.27.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.28.0	President... Miri, we will be on the side of public servants, agents of the Mosso d'Esquadra, of the Bombers, of Civil Protection, of the Rural Agents, to be on the side of the people, to be on the side of the most vulnerable people, who are just those who protect day by day with their work. I do not intend to take part in this Parliament in a competition that is more or less used by you with the Mosos. Surely many of you will always be with the agents of the Police of Catalonia; what I can assure you is that no one will be more than us. But to be in favor of the Mossos and to give support to the Mossos is not to confront one part of the people of Catalonia against another, it is not to go against a group that pretends to stigmatize. And we won't tolerate that. From the government we will work for public safety in this country to serve the majority of citizens, to serve and at the expense of public workers, and we will fight with energy the lies, hatred and violence that you promote. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.29.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the orientation of security policies. [[Ask the Government about the orientation of security policies]] [[310-00040/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ramon Espadaler, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.30.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honourable President, members of the Government, allow me also my first words, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, to wish you luck and uncertainty in this Parliament, of uncertain name, I do not know if the tretzen or the fourteen, do I? In any case, I would also like to express to him the concern of our parliamentary group about the agreement signed between Squerra Republicana and the CUP on 23 December, and ask for a very concise thing: will this be the full route that will guide your action to the front of the council?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.31.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.32.0	Madam President, Mr. Swordler, thank you very much. The one that will inspire and guide this council and the government in matters of security is, in the first place, to be at the side of public servants, because it is our obligation to give them confidence; to be at the side of the citizens, to be at the side of the citizens, basically, functionally, of the most vulnerable. And just in this vulnerable counseling we are all at some point: accidents and many circumstances in which we may need public services. Fight all the rapes, not just those that some claim, but all the rapes. These days – and now the president was talking about it – we haven't had any very obvious experiences. Above all, however, there is the need for a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a political debate, a democratic debate, a democratic debate and a democratic debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.33.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.34.0	Madam President, thank you, Counselor, for this answer you give us. But, just's, you tell us that you will be at the side of public servers, and reading the signed agreement to which I referred, between the Republican Left and the CUP, there are some aspects that are not exactly posed at the side of public servers. It is not to stand at the side of the police to withdraw from the private charges against those people, therefore, who provoke riots and confront the police. It's not posing at the police's side to constantly question the police model – we think the police model we have in Catalonia is good, it's democratic, it's modern, it's better than anything else in life, but in any case, it's not questionable in essence. It is not a matter of putting at the side of public servants a rule of points, therefore, which you call into this agreement: to fail, for example, to comply with the legislation in force in public matters, even if you do not like them. In any case, if they don't like it, the alternative is to change it. Therefore, counselor, I share the need and the need, therefore, to find this space for noble politics and to debate in depth – here you will always find us, in our parliamentary group – but I am very afraid that you will have to choose which path you want to follow. Because if the full route you're marked in this agreement goes with all these points that you're looking at right now, we won't be able to find them. And I fixed 'that pose, therefore, at the service, at the side or following a full route of one of the extremes of this chamber that does – and we have just seen with the question that has preceded – is to end up feeding the other extreme of the chamber. We believe that this country needs only one, but only one, that it is a fight against violence, all the rapes that we refer to, against the pandemic, against the crisis and in favour of the productive economy and in favour of coexistence. He'll always find us here. When the police get sick, they won't be able to find us at the moment. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.35.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.36.0	President... Deputy, Mirí, we often talk about the civilian unit of the people of Catalonia. We're all worried. This informed me of my political activity and that of this government, and that of many Members of this chamber. To guarantee it, I'm sure there's a lot to be done, and I'm sure we can all do a lot better. Now, there's one thing that's fun, that's running away from stigmas, running away from valuing things depending on who you say them to, which is the game that makes the proposals. Look, I'm inviting them, I said, I'm inviting them to joint reflection, dialogue and consensus. And to a later reflection. Many of the great consensuses that exist in our society have come from political positions that at the time were peripheral, that were marginal, that did not form part..., or that were considered marginal, that did not form part of the great consensuss of the country, of the organizations that were nuclear. That's why they know a lot about class unions, feminist movement, environmental movement. And today are those proposals that many times have nuclear ramblings in the big deals. I think of many things, but, for example, rubber drivers. Where did these first proposals come from? And today they're consenting to this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.37.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the Government on Habitat Policies]] [[310-00041/13]] Question to be answered orally in the plenary on housing policies. Asks the question Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In the first place, he left his congratulations on his new responsibilities and wished him out and uncertain in his pocket. For our part, we have announced a strict attitude of follow-up of the department, but also constructive and constructive. I remind him that, among his responsibilities, there are also housing policies. And I say this because in its first intervention today in the plenary, therefore, it set two objectives of the legislature: one that was to advance towards the Catalan Republic – how not? – and the other one that was..., spoke of infrastructures; but mention was made of housing. One of the hardest problems this country has, you didn't set it as an object of the legislature. Let's hope this isn't the department's tonics during his entire term of office. But let's focus on the question. Counselor, what will be the government's capitulation respect two fundamental points in our housing policies in Catalonia. First of all, how will they deal with housing emergence; it's to say, what will they do to people who have lost or are about to lose their habitation because they can't afford to pay for it? And one_second point, that's how the government thinks or whether it's going to re-edit the national housing pact. Look, we listened carefully to President Aragones when he announced a multitude of national pacts, but this one, which affects one of the main themes, we did not hear him mention. That's why I'm asking you here today, isn't it? You think you can re-edit it? And if so, when will they start working?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.39.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice President and Advisor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.40.0	Yes, thank you, President. MP, look, the first one I'm gonna do... and, obviously, housing will be a high priority of this legislature for this government, and that shows, precisely, the parliamentary agreement that we have signed together for Catalonia and the Republican Left. An agreement that I'll get to you quickly, because I'm sure when the law is in full agreement with the policies we're proposing. An agreement, of course, that the party to which it dedicates the most plans is, precisely, the housing agreement. An agreement, too, which will, moreover, make the greatest reversal that has ever been made in housing policies in the later years by a government of the Generalitat. Therefore, we are the facts and not the words – or also the words but above all the facts – and, therefore, I will make you come to this agreement because I am sure that when you read it, with the first intervention you have made, I am sure that we can, in collaboration with you, make very important policies for this country in our own years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.41.0	To answer the question, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.42.0	Thank you, President. I read thank you, uh, that you sent me. I already have it and I read it, I assure you. And, in fact, I have seen that this agreement contained a presumptive departure of up to 1,000 million to allocate them to housing in this legislature, but it is that the agreement you signed with the CUP was 1,000 million a year, which in fact was the one we had granted in this hemisphere. As we have also granted in this House the renewal of the National Habitats Pact. In change, we haven't seen this national pact, and you haven't answered it yet. Yesterday we felt as the president announced a working group to guarantee the right to housing and avoid situations of denunciation. A working group? Really? These lifts? Listen, you haven't been in government for 15 days, five years, and besides, the housing emergency didn't appear yesterday, but it's been a long time since it's been installed in our house. Therefore, the phase of the working groups has passed and now is the time to put resources, to legislate with effective instruments and to seek great consensus in the world of housing to pull ahead of those challenges that we have. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.43.0	To answer, the words of the Vice President and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.44.0	Yes, thank you, President. MP, look, what this vice president won't do is do what the state government minister did, who said housing is a commodity and not a social right. So, first of all, tell him that we obviously understand housing as a social right and that until that social right is guaranteed, it cannot be a commodity. In any case, tell him that, because you see that we are of the facts, this first agreement that we are about to govern, the first agreement that the government makes in this legislature, is precisely an agreement to create a working group where there are different departments involved, because that of housing is not just a question of a counselor. Here we are affecting from the realm of interior, justice, social rights, and, therefore, housing policy must be an integral policy. A denunciation is a failure of the whole system and, therefore, we have to address it from a multitude of concrete areas if we really want to solve the problem of housing in this country. And things have been done: the past legislature, obviously, passed decrees, passed laws, helped each other, but that's not enough. Above all we also expect – also from your group, since you govern in Madrid – that with the state housing plan, which in these past years has spread over 50_per_cent, also giving us a hand in this goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.45.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on the planned tourism strategy. [[Ask the Government about the planned tourism strategy]] [[310-00042/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Juan Luis Ruiz, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.46.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Counselor, first of all, congratulated on your appointment and wished them much uncertainty. We are about to start a new tourist season, which must be, without any doubt, the beginning of the recovery of the sector, thanks to the vaccination rate and to the future passport. Counselor, what is the government's understanding of its tourism strategy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.47.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.48.0	Thank you, President. And thank you, Member, for the question, which allows me to debut in this room from this new perspective. Well, actually, the summer campaign is starting. We're a few days away, a few weeks away from this campaign intensifying. Certainly, we expect a better respect for the past year, when the fall, especially of the visits of foreign tourism, was very important, up to 80_per_cent. We have to think that visits to foreign tourism represent 50_percent of visits, but 85_percent of tickets. Therefore, the download was very important. To this end, the Government reacted with measures of help, with measures of esteem, with subsidies to the enterprises and the autonomous of the sector, precisely in order to be able to deal with the situation, but, indeed, the effects, despite all this package of measures that the former Government promoted, have been very hard for the sector. Indeed, the better health conditions and the vaccination process are great news for the tourist sector. That's great news from an economic point of view, from an activity recovery point of view. And obviously, the understanding of this government and, in this case, of this councillor is to help the sector not only to be able to develop this summer campaign, to intensify the activity and that this involves a certain growth of the contract, but also to lay the foundations of a model of tourism of quality, with the high added value and sustainability that today does not only demand specifically from us this economic sector, but also the joint venture of the society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.49.0	To answer the question, has the word Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.50.0	Thank you very much. Counselor, look, there's a fact that we're worried about, because we've been getting representatives from the sector these past few weeks. Yesterday, the Federation of Campings of Catalonia..., which, of course, are still waiting to know the latest version of the Pla Camping Director and I remind him that he represents more than 270,000 tourist seats. We are aware that it will be difficult to recover the international tourist at pre-pandemic level – you said it yourself – and therefore one of the potential tourists that we will surely have is that of our own Spanish market. And here, Mr. Counselor, we haven't done our homework. For example, Andalusia, the Valencian Community, Balears, Madrid, Euskadi and others have promoted good tourism to encourage domestic tourism. And Catalonia? So we respect the total number of Spanish tourists, since 2017 that we have lost to the destination. Concretely, we have passed from 15_per_cent in 2017 to 13,8_per_cent in 2019, 2020 does not count for obvious motius, right? And that worries us. And, singular acts, we have many: in natural spaces, in gastronomy, in plagiarism, in our heritage, in our festive cycle, in wine tourism, in commerce, in sport tourism... By the way, speaking of sport tourism, will the government act responsibly and guarantee the future of Formula 1 at the Circuit de Montmeló? Let's hope so, in any case, we'd like to know. The people of the tourism sector see with concern how Catalonia loses competitiveness before other territories of the State. Mr. Counselor, I have returned to this situation and work to strengthen Catalonia's confidence as a tourist destination in the state. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.51.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.52.0	Well, honourable Member, you know – something else is that you want to recognise or not – that since May we have promoted a recovery plan for the sector with €6 million just to develop thirty actions that certainly seek to fix tourism in the vicinity at these times. But these, obviously, are the short measures, there are also long-term measures, as I said before, of evaluation and of rethinking the model, precisely because in the postcovid situation, postpandemia, the entrant will change, the requests will change, the tourist model has to change. And, therefore, we will work with the sector from a point of view of the absolutely necessary concertation of these great political consensuss, which before also commented the Councillor of Interior, to build this model, as he said before, betting on the added value, for excellence and for quality. To this end, we obviously have tools to develop here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, as the Law of Tourism. Thank you, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.53.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the strategic lines of the Department of Enterprise and Work. [[Ask the Government about the strategic lines of the Department of Enterprise and Work]] [[310-00036/13]] The question is posed by Ms Lluïsa Llop, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.54.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Councillor Torrent, today that he assumes before Parliament his new responsibility, I would like to congratulate him on behalf of himself and the Republican Group on his appointment, but above all to congratulate him and to thank him for his great task as President of the Parliament being in the first line of defence of our institution and ensuring that we can talk and debate everything in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]] Now the line we have in the front is no less. Today, at the end of the tunnel caused by the covid-19, we are aware of the enormous economic and social crisis that has led to and that affects the most vulnerable, those who have already emerged from the 2008 crisis most affected by "austericide" policies. A crisis that leaves us with the largest fall in GDP from the Civil War to our country, and which has names and surnames behind these macroxifres. Names and surnames like those of the workers and workers of Nissan of the Free Zone, who have returned to the road one year after the announcement of the tank, or like those of Robert Bosch to Penedès, who wait for the reindustrialization of their plants and long wait not to lose these important industrial jobs. The repte went beyond recovery. We need to transform and reindustrialize this country. It's a time for ambition and leadership. We need an entrepreneurial state, bold, that takes advantage of the opportunity offered by the Next Generation funds, that must build a more resilient and inclusive economy, also more egalitarian and more equitable. A recovery that is made of shared prosperity, of innovation to cope with climate change, of rethinking the value of our economy to feminize it, of industrialization to bring added value jobs with decent conditions. The new structure of the council is already a statement of intentions, Company but also Workball. The reactivation of the economic fabric must be accompanied by the reactivation of the working fabric and its valorization. We will not compete in precariousness and low labour costs, but in attraction of talent and projects of high added value. For all this I want to ask you, Counsellor Torrent, what will be the priorities of the council to rebuild the social and economic fabric of the country after this covid-19.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.55.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.56.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman, for your congratulations. And what I would like to do in my turn is to appreciate the work of Councillor El Homrani and Councillor Tremosa who took over this area at a very complex time for the country. Well, the president in his investiture speech, said, what should be the priorities of the new political cycle, that in the case of Enterprise and Work are basically two objectives: on one side, the reconstruction of productive activity, and on the other, the right to guarantee a decent and stable job. Both objectives are inseparable, they are indestriable as you said very well in your intervention, because what we do not want is to base recovery on the destruction of work places, on the reduction of wages or on a degradation of working conditions. Just what we want is the opposite, is to say, that this recovery is based on innovation, talent and the added value of businesses. From a business point of view, this means that obviously we will have to make an effort to help the business fabric to get out of the crisis situation, to be able to advance despite the obvious and obvious difficulties of the moment, but we also want to transform the production system. And we want to take advantage, in this case, of the Next Generation, effectively, as a lever of change to rebuild a productive system that we want strong, that we want just, and that we want to compete. In other words, what we seek is sustainability and resilience. And that, from a point of view of the world of work, of the world of work, must translate into the generation of quality and fair jobs – with all the meanings of the term equity. We will have to do this with social concertation, social dialogue, dialogue with all economic, social and political agents in the country, because we are at a critical time. We do not agree to return to the prepandemic situation, what we want is to lay the foundations of the new Catalonia, of the post-covid Catalonia, the bases for the proper generations. We are at a time when we have to answer the question: how and what are we going to live on our own for twenty years? Therefore, in our leadership, not only in the department, at the joint government, but also in this institution that is called to participate in this social, economic and labour definition of Catalonia that you see. Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.57.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the political priorities of the Department of the Presidency. [[Ask the Government about the political priorities of the Department of the Presidency]] [[310-00037/13]] The question is posed by Ms. Raquel Sans, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.58.0	Thank you, President. First of all, Mrs Vilagrà, I would like to take this question to congratulate you, to congratulate you all on your new responsibilities to the Head of Government. As the President's adviser has a task that will not be easy people, but that will be decisive for the proper functioning of the new government: to coordinate the different councils and to boost teamwork, not only in the government but also with the local world, with 947 municipalities and also with a public administration that has experienced a very harsh situation this past year, covering the first line of the pandemic, and that we are convinced that your department and you yourself will be able to accompany and take care of. Both the local world and the people who conform to the public function of our country will have a support, an organization and a progressive dimension that they need more than ever. In fact, a good example – before they talked about it – of the coordination task that must be carried out in the long term by his consultancy, we had it this same week with the government agreement that drives a working group to fight against the disclaimers. Habitat is and must be a priority of the new Government and, therefore, must also adapt the Public Administration, with the aim of giving real solutions to people who suffer from real difficulties in accessing housing. We believe, from the Republican Left, that it's a very good way to start. We also like very much, she advises, the support that these first days as the counselor has offered to women's sport, a sport that has been forgotten and abused for many years and that requires, I would say that requires, this follow-up on behalf of the Government. In fact, last week we were able to see her in her first public act in Sant Cugat del Vallès giving the stretch of exit to the second edition of the « revolt, the female cycling turn of Catalonia. Also this same week he was able to accompany the players of the Barcelona Football Club to Leganés, at the end of the Cup against the Levant with victory of the blaugrans that allowed them to add the triplet split of the history of the Barça. Let us also take the opportunity to congratulate you from here. As you yourself said disbanded: this must be the legislature of women's sport. Therefore, Mrs Vilagrà, we would like to know who are the strategic lines that some of the Presidency is marking for the next four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.59.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.60.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, this week's chapter we have launched giving institutional support to different women's sporting events, in this case, hockey; the same president, or myself, cycling and football. And that's no coincidence, this legislature is going to talk a lot about sports and it's going to talk a lot about women's sports. In this new Republican Generality, all policies must be imbued with feminism and, obviously, sport cannot be an exception. But, as I said, Presidency is a cross-cutting council and therefore we also coordinate interdepartmentally the Government, and therefore we will make ambitious policies to guarantee the right to housing, but also to guarantee the right to social policies, which at these times, so, finally, need reinforcement. Therefore, placing people at the centre, people at risk of social exclusion at the centre. And we won't do it alone, we won't do it alone from the government, but also with the support of the municipal world, which is another of the important pots that the Presidency Department has. And here, therefore, we want to establish an honest relationship, a direct relationship to, obviously, address together all the challenges: economic, social and environmental that the country has, together with the municipal world. And, in fact, both the municipalities, regional councils, like the same government, the main act that we have are our workers and workers, and we want to open a new stage, a new stage of transformation, a new public governance; to effectively make our government an open, transparent, collaborative government, and, in this sense, the workers and public workers are the lever of change from this change that we want to implement to the Administration, raising talent, valuing and enhancing their skills and abilities, making it effectively necessary to establish the work of so many people that unfortunately at these times, therefore, are temporarily in the Administration, but we also want to see the Public Administration speak of innovation and speak of administration. Therefore, honourable Member, you have me at your disposal, just like the rest of the chamber. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.61.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the strategic lines of the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. [[Ask the Government about the strategic lines of the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda]] [[310-00038/13]] The question is posed by Mònica Palacín, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Jordan, first, congratulate her on her appointment. The best wishes for this challenge you take with the new councillor, and also congratulate the very honorable President Aragonès and the rest of the councillors and advisors of this new government. Her activity, counsel, during these three years has been intense in the territory and highly valued. Now take on this competence of climate action in the consulting office, to continue advancing towards the Catalonia that we are. As you said in your possession, the Catalonia that we are is a sustainable and green Catalonia. This is a Republican Esquerra compromise that with the creation of this new department will guide more than ever actions in environmental matters to address climate change and will also do so in a coordinated way, in a way that coincides with the reality of the rural world, with the agricultural activity and food policy. The rural agenda and environmental actions cannot be separated; on the contrary, they must be inseparable. The policies of the sustainable and green generality must be sustainable and green policies, and never, in any case, be out-of-pocket to the territory because, if not, they will not be. The creation of this new department goes in this sense: of a band, help the rural world to realize a sustainable territorial development and guarantee equity in all the spaces of the mosaic that makes up Catalonia, also fighting against depopulation. But from the other band, it also promotes the energy model change to a more just model, it has a renewable cent_per_cent, it has a zero residual model, and it promotes a better water management. And, at the same time, thinking about how to reduce the territory, how to help the productive economy and how to bring about a diverse, cohesive, sustainable and balanced country. We are convinced that your task will serve to transform, to mitigate the effects of climate change, to keep the territory alive and improve food production activity. It will also serve to protect biodiversity. Counsel, could you explain to us the main strategies of the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda to achieve this sustainable and green Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.63.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.64.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, for me it is an honor to be able to head back to this chamber forming part of the Government, in this case, therefore, as the Councillor of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. Congresswoman Palacín, you've explained it very well – you've always been right enough, haven't you? , today very much, too –: Catalonia has many reptes, and many of these reptes are focused on the environment, agri-food climate and obviously also territorial cohesion. They are all challenges that we have with the country, but not just with the country, they are all challenges that we all have as society. And we're here not to take them away, we're here to take them in, all of them, and act. In fact, we want to go a lot further than managing, what we want to do is transform, and do it with capitals. And here I'd like to make my own, with the permission of President Aragonès, a few words that you tell us a lot of times, right? : In the end, we want a fair Catalonia, we want a Catalonia tomorrow, we want a feminist, we want green and we want it also completely free. This country needs, in a sense of doubt, to take the road to the green revolution, also with capitals, and it needs to do so hand in hand, as well as you, of the environmental sector, but also of the agri-food sector, and it is time to cooperate and not time to compete. It's about moving around and moving forward quickly; it's about consensus among all of us, Catalans and Catalans that we think of our land, that we think of our environment, our biodiversity, and also those who live and want to live decently from the land. And all this we have to do, and we have to do it now. But above all we have to listen to the territory, listen to its sensitivities, listen to its concerns, and pull forward with this shared vision of the future to make a green Catalonia, a sense of doubt. Because we'll only have a country that fights and does it hard if we have some communities and some living people, that's indisputable. Some communities and towns that are generating wealth, added value and, above all, decent work opportunities. And I'll make it very clear before we finish: if we don't, they'll do the usual, and they're the oligopolises and the extractive economy. Therefore, it is now and here where to start, no doubt, this great country dialect for this living and green Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.65.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the preparations for the 2021-2022 school year. [[Ask the Government about the preparations for the 2021-2022 school year]] [[310-00035/13]] The question is posed by Ms. Lorena Roldán, of the Groupe Parlamentari Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.66.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, as you should know, just a few months ago the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia urged the Generalitat to take all necessary measures to ensure that all pupils receive education effectively and immediately through the normal use of the two official languages in the percentages to be determined, which may not be less than 25_per cent in each case. Following this ruling, the TSJ has again had to cancel two language projects because they violated students' rights. What preparations are being made by your department to adapt the language projects at the centre and to stop violating the rights of families and students?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.67.0	To answer, has the word Mr Josep González, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.68.0	Hello, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies... well, in any case, what you're doing is starting from a false premise, what you're doing is you're inventing a conflict that doesn't exist. And, therefore, what we do, like the country, like Education, is move forward, defend the language model that so many years has worked for us and worked very well for us. Therefore, Catalonia's model is the linguistic model of immersion in Catalonia, whether they like it or not. From here, we will continue to advance to defend this linguistic model. And what we're doing is focusing on the issues that we're actually dealing with on a day-to-day basis. We're finishing a different course than we've ever had before; we're finishing a course where the Catalan education system has been up; we're finishing a course where we opened all the schools in the course, one hundred_per_cent face, and we'll finish the course with all the schools opened one hundred_per_cent face. And that's thanks to everyone's involvement and attitude to give an answer to this reptile of a country. Face-to-face education is the only way to guarantee equal opportunities. And so, if I may, and in this first intervention in the chamber, what I would like to do is give thanks, thank you because this is a country success, it's a collection success and it's a shared success. And, therefore, to give thanks to the Department of Health, to give thanks to all professionals who are dedicated to education – to devote themselves to education is the best that can be done in this life – masters, teachers, management teams, education professionals, families, students – a god for alumni – and also to the gatherings. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.69.0	To answer the question, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.70.0	Yeah. Look, counselor, the question has been very simple: are you going to adapt the linguistic projects of center, yes or no? Will they respect the ruling of the TSJ, yes or no? It's just embarrassing that parents have to go to court to defend their children's education because you don't want to do that. And not only are the courts telling them, it is that absolutely all articles in this area determine that the mother tongue is a facilitator of learning. UNESCO has over a thousand articles recognizing that the mother tongue is a facilitator of learning. Moreover, it is a right also recognized in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is that you do not respect court judgments nor are you guided by pedagogical criteria. And not only are you not going to withdraw your immersion system – I insist, which is illegal – but you are also going to France to ask there to apply as well. I mean, it's that you have a very serious problem with linguistic diversity, but you also have it with freedom. Stop trying to impose Catalan everywhere. And stop believing that all Catalan society is identical to you, because it is not, that there is nothing more to see your opening letter as a counselor. What does it mean that teachers and teachers are the protagonists of the new Republican Generalitat? Look, teachers and teachers are not indoctrination tools at the service of their separatist cause. They are professionals who have had to work very hard to approve oppositions and who dedicate themselves in body and soul to teaching their students. So, at the very least, counselor, respect that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.71.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.72.0	Well, then, before a concrete question, a concrete answer: for many who repeat a lie will not end up feeling true. We don't have a problem with linguistic immersion in Catalonia. And, therefore, we defend the model and we will continue to defend the model. He has touched on another theme that allows me to answer it. What we do from the Department of Education is give all the tools to our infants, to our young ones, so that they can make the best decisions at the length of their lives. And that goes through a learning process, an education that's not only knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge, that's knowledge. And, therefore, we educate in critical experience, we educate in values, we educate in equity, equality, co-education, feminism, inclusive school, free from any type of violence, free from any type of discrimination and free from any type of segregation. So, this counselor... they'll find me defending all these values. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.73.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on primary health care. [[Ask the Government about primary health care]] [[310-00039/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Laia Estrada, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.74.0	Counsellor Argimon, I would like to know how many primary care centres, consultants or primary care services have been closed during the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.75.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, Salut advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.76.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. During the pandemic, obviously, there have been centers that have had to be closed; rather than closing what has been done has been a rearrangement of what are the parent centers, and what are the primary care centers, for many reasons. The first of the reasons is because we needed to have clearly differentiated circuits. And you know that local consultants on many occasions do not allow this. Secondly, also because we needed to regroup all these effects, all this human resource that had to be paying attention. For a very simple reason, too, because the collection of health professionals, the nursing collection, the collection of nursing assistants, medicine, has also clearly – clearly – had an impact on the pandemic. In fact, together with the workers and workers and the people who lived there are the highest taxes of infection. So, yes, there has been this rearrangement, which is slowly turning back and that, from this point of view, we also hope to reach normality when we also reach normality in the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.77.0	To answer the question, you have the word Laia Estrada.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.78.0	Yeah, look, we're wearing years of presuppositional infraction, years of oblivion, years of abandonment of primary care. It's not... we have a problem with a CAP, a consultant, a back, a god. We have a widespread problem that we see in the recurring protests of the country's roads and roads, some of which have brought us to Parliament. They explain to us all, therefore, that they have their CAP saturated, their consultant or some of the services that are still locked. We see it with the professionals, who explain to us that we are moving towards a primary attention of benefit. And even desperation led them to summon a vacancy – I don't know if he'll remember it – months back. I don't know if it has been added that we are losing the characteristics that define primary quality care. We have centres and professionals every time more inaccessible, which we see with our necks at the gates of the CAPs, we see with the col·lapse of the telephone lines. We are seeing how face care is more limited each time, and in some cases it is telematical or telephonic attention in situations that would require face-to-face attention. We see how difficult it is for the population to be treated for its mesgesa or for its nurse of reference, because longitudinality is not a priority. You know perfectly well the benefits that this entails in the salvation of the people. And we see it in the situation of the workers, that, like the whole health system, therefore, they find themselves in a situation that is absolutely overflowing and exhausting both physically and emotionally. We have long been demanding that we provide resources to all primary care services in an urgent and continuous manner and approach or achieve once and for all 25_percent of the primary care budget. We need to end all the precariousness growing among professionals, increasing seedlings and, of course, reversing wage and working conditions. And, in addition, we have a situation where we need primary care to be able to decide and influence on waiting lists, hospital admissions, etc. You didn't answer my specific question. It's all right. He asks you to explain how you intend to reverse this situation, this sharpening of the dismantling of primary care, in what terms you plan to do it. We're just focusing on this... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.79.0	Time's up, Mrs Estrada. To answer the word has the councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.80.0	Mrs Estrada, our commitment, the government's commitment to primary care is total and absolute. If you take up and look at the first appointment that was made, which was made precisely on yesterday, for the first time, in the country's most important – most important – institution, to the country's first public enterprise, with more than fifty_ thousand workers, the person who is at the front is a person who has developed all his assistance and direction to primary care, and concretely to the Catalan Institute of Health, and concretely, moreover, is infirm. This clearly gives an idea of which is the will, direction and intention of this government, of this council and of the entire government in full. Second element. The government agreement clearly clarifies this 25_per_cent that you have commented on, that you have commented on, that we are fully in agreement with and that somehow we will have to make it to the length of this entire legislature. And this gets primary attention where there is much more community attention, much more prevention and promotion of salvation. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.81.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the education system. [[Ask the Government about the education system]] [[310-00030/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Martín, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.82.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, he congratulates on his appointment as Education Advisor, a phone book for Catalonia's citizens, for our children. And, therefore, I want to get rid of some of the things I gave him in the preamble, because you have already answered them in your previous answer, but I do want to tell him a couple of things. You say that some invent a problem that does not exist in Catalonia. If the problem, according to you, does not exist because in Catalonia it reigns, presides over our public debate a terrible spiral of silence as to the question of teaching, as to the question of language and education. And I want to tell you, Mr. Counsellor, that many Catalans, many citizens of Catalonia, are greatly concerned about two aspects of their politics in educational themes. One is, indeed, the exclusion of the majority language of the citizens of Catalonia, which is the castle, from our public and concerted teaching system. This is something that doesn't happen anywhere in the world. There are no other territories in the world where the majority language of the population in the education system is systematically deployed. And then another very worrying aspect is his attitude, his persecution, his Croatian against Catalonia's concerted teaching. My question is: do you think this legislature will continue to shut down the castle of our public and concerted teaching and also pursue the concerted teaching, which I am sure, since it spoke of international organizations, the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization says precisely that concerted teaching is a fundamental aspect to ensure a plural teaching, a diverse teaching and a teaching that is not adopted by public power why everyone thinks exactly the same thing? Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.83.0	To answer, has the word Mr Josep González, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.84.0	Well, then, his intervention gathers a little in the past, because they start from situations that are not real. And so we're drawing a conflict that doesn't exist. Catalonia, in the education of this country, does not make any kind of discrimination. The ones... you might want us to do it, but we won't do it. What we do is move forward to defend the values, the values that make our infants and young people have critical experience and can make the best decisions in their lives. You said the theme of the concert. Let's see, dialog – dialog –; we talk to everyone. From the educational system of Catalonia in form part of the public network and in form part of the concerted network. Therefore, dial; we continue to move forward together. Now, what we don't allow is no kind of discrimination. We will not allow any type of discrimination for any reason, by sex, economic, social, whatever it is, and therefore in the fight against discrimination this government will be there; this government is there and this government will be there. And neither do we allow there to continue to be any choices that would segregate with public funds. And, therefore, firm will to continue advancing towards a model that makes a balanced distribution of the student and that all publicly funded schools do the same social function. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.85.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.86.0	Counselor, who invents a problem, claims that, in a bilingual society such as Catalan society, there is only one vehicle language at school. That's making up a problem. When a society like ours perfectly lives in català and castella..., families, friends, the conjunction of the Catalan society lives without problems in castella and català, what is absolutely inconceivable is that at the Catalan school there is only one vehicle language, of which you, moreover, are proud. It is an absolutely inverse thing, which, I insist, is not the place of the world; it is something that forms part of a thought, let's say, very little democratic and very interventionist, which is exactly the same thing that you do with the concerted teaching. There are many families very concerned about their willingness to direct life to the citizen of Catalonia and to stay until the last detail of our lives. Let the Catalans make our lives to every citizen with normality, with tranquility and without imposing... (The president removes the use of the microphone at the clock and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.87.0	Time's up, Mr. Martin. To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.88.0	Well, then, I usually answer you with the question you asked, in your formulation. You say: "The català and the castle coexist...; the català and the castle coexist at school with the català as the vehicle language. It's just that he said it very well. Therefore, it does not require an answer. [[Greetings.]] And second theme. Please, don't want to give us any lessons in democracy, because what we don't want, and the education system still less, is to go back to the dark times that this country has unfortunately experienced, and what we do want is to keep moving forward to transform education because all students have equal opportunities with the highest educational quality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.89.0	Questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the determination of the Government in the creation of a public bank]] [[317-00017/13]] He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Alejandro Fernández, of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.90.0	Thank you, President. Several media outlets point to the reluctance of Councillor Jaume Giró to push a public bank. Do you maintain, Mr. Aragonès, the project in terms you announced when you were the counselor of matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality, Mr Pere Aragonès, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.92.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.93.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.94.0	Thank you very much. One of the most harmful consequences of the process is that independence does not reach them, but the UPC remains, or at least its policies. In this case, the extemporaneous and ruinous idea of creating a public bank. Like any idea of socialist inspiration, it is born full of good intentions. You, in your infinite goodness, would not do like the bankers, who are evil beings by nature, so that your public bank would seek not economic benefit, but social welfare. Nice, isn't it? That said, it sounds like heavenly music, but reality is very different. And it's that every time the political class puts the heel in the bank, it ends up paying the citizenry. It happened throughout Spain with savings boxes, and yes, on occasions with political representatives coming from my party, but in Catalonia in a particularly serious way with political representatives coming from the PSC and the former Convergence i Unió. In short, politics and banking, the further away the better. If that were not enough, what you are proposing is not exactly like the savings banks, it is even worse: it looks more like Banca Catalana, we could even call it « Banca Catalana, second part; in short, an instrument of national construction which, when it breaks, will end up paying all Catalans out of their taxes. We are absolutely convinced that the European Central Bank, through its single supervisory mechanism, will ultimately stop this absolute delirium. Mr Giró knows it perfectly, although he will never recognize it publicly, and you know it perfectly, that he will not recognize it in public either. But until that happens, you will continue to waste hundreds of millions of euros with impunity that would be more necessary than ever to get out of the crisis. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.95.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Holy ignorance his holy patience ours, Mr. Deputy. [[Widow's remorse. Rialles.]] Holy ignorance. The public bank is present throughout Europe. The public bank is the ICO, the public bank is the French BPI, which at a time of collapse of the largest gross domestic product in Europe since the Second World War and in Catalonia since the Civil War have made an extraordinary pocket of injection of treasuries, liquidity and solvency to the companies of Catalonia. In concrete terms, 1,300_million euros in the case of Catalonia the year 2020 of credits carried over to term for the Catalan Institute of Finance, that have allowed the maintenance of 123,500 places of work. Therefore, look at a little that goes around, it is not only with Caja Madrid, black and the responsibilities of Mr. Rodrigo Rato, who has and many, and is not paying. So, look a little bit more over there. See what is proposed, for example, from Italy – it is assumed that the Prime Minister, Mr Draghi, is not an example of an ultra-communist Venice–, in which there is a clear project of economic missions, where there is a foundation of industrial and economic reconstruction of the country, led, precisely, by a person who has been working at the Barcelona Assembly, Francesca Bria, and who clearly has this willingness to coincide with what we want to do with the public bank. Therefore, Mr. Deputy, look at a little more, Spanish nationalism is a life-saving cure. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.97.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the pardons, the feeling of half the Catalans feeling expelled and the participation of Oriol Junqueras in the dialog table with the State]] [[317-00019/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.98.0	Mr President, I am going to ask you about Catalan citizens you never talk about even though you came here saying that you were going to be the president of everyone. How do you think the millions of Catalans who lived in fear of the 2017 coup feel when they see that Pedro Sánchez intends to pardon his authors, that they do not repent and that they threaten to do so again? And also, how do you think the victims of that outrage feel when you propose that one of the main perpetrators of the coup, Mr. Junqueras, sit at that blackmail table to decide our future?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.100.0	Precisely, honourable Member, our intention is that the future of Catalonia will be decided between all Catalans and Catalans and that the future political of Catalonia will be decided, after a debate, after deliberation, in a reference to whether we want to be an independent state or not. Dare to win the no to independence, which we will work for to win the yes. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.101.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.102.0	Mr Aragonès, you can see that it is difficult to talk about the feelings of Catalans who feel attacked or uncomfortable by their democratic clash. Is it a taboo to talk about the feelings of those who feel excluded and ignored by you? You have never been concerned about the suffering during the autumn of 2017 when many of them, in the face of the anti-democratic drift of Puigdemont, Junqueras and company, were planning to leave their land, feared for their pensions, moved the money from their accounts outside Catalonia – although the money, as it is cross-cutting, also moved some of you – and you have also not been worried about the thousands of companies forced to leave Catalonia for their truncated dreams, for the loss of opportunities. And now President Sánchez also despises these feelings to satisfy you. To you who already warn that you will never be satisfied, because you, as good nationalists, are insatiable and disloyal with Spain. Look, for all those who think that a pardon for those who say that they have committed no crime and that they will do so again is not only unfair, but that it is a mistake; for all those of whom you, the separatists of successive governments, never speak; for all those of whom socialism only remembers in electoral campaign; for all who want coexistence, freedom and constitution, Ciutadans calls for a concentration on 11 June in front of the Government Delegation. Because Ciutadans will be there defending, as always, whom you always ignore. It is enough, Mr President of the Generalitat, of impermeability to the other part of Catalonia as we have seen it exhibiting its Education Adviser in relation to teaching, also in Spanish, in Catalan schools. You are also waterproof to the feelings of more than half the Catalans. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.104.0	Thank you, President. I suppose you, when you say you speak for all these half Catalans, don't do it because you voted for it. Because the electoral evolution of his party clearly demonstrates which is one of the feelings of Catalonia's citizens towards you, which is the confidence that, in their case, has spread to zero. He didn't make us an election announcement today at the Lawyer's College, but he's already made us an announcement of a demonstration. In any case, before this, we, from respect for everyone, from respect for feelings, and so on, to the identities of everyone, every person who feels his or her own, what we want is to mediate the dialogue, to mediate the negotiation – and this is what we want to do at this negotiating table with the State – before a political conflict, to put political solutions to it. And here are two models. One is the model of this "democratic terraplanism," which is what you, therefore, would manifest to Columbus, right? In this species of three caravels, together with VOX and PP, that they think that the Earth is flat and that, therefore, can only be solved..., there is no resolution possible, that the question is revenge, continue to encourage hatred... Here they will not find us. We have a project open to everyone. I have said since the first moment that I would rule for everyone and that I would, too, feel very honest, from an independentist and left-wing perspective, as it cannot be in any other way, because these are my positions as President of the Generality. Therefore, honourable Member, in abandoning the chasm, looking where they have brought the chasm, making a deep reflection on this desire to go divided, where they have also carried them electorally and see that, perhaps, who..., the feeling of mistrust has been waning in good part of Catalonia's citizenship has been in you, especially in your exvoters. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.105.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the plan to convene the table of matches before the table of dialog with the State]] [[317-00020/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.106.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Welcome to the counselors and the counselors. President, you have already heard the Supreme Court's report on pardons, and with that is the time of judgment and the time of politics. Moreover, today you have also manifested, so you want the table of the dialog to be gathered before the summer, and that is why we want to know, from Comú Pode, if you have planned to convene the table of parties in Catalonia before this first meeting of the table of the dialog is produced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.108.0	We certainly have this opportunity. Let us see, then, whether the Government of the State is also in the line of resolving political problems in a political and democratic way. This government's proposal is clear, I expressed it myself in the investiture debate. The proposal is that the solution that we are proposing is an amnesty law, it is the exercise of the right to self-determination, and obviously, before starting this negotiation, so I will consult with parliamentary groups to know what their position is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.109.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.110.0	Thank you. President, we ask you to convene this table of parties and not to consult on an individual basis. As I have already said, pardons, reform of the penal code, of the crime of sedition, now tank the time of judgments and stop the time of politics. You know that this double formula, we from Comú Pueblo, have always defended it, very often in solitary, and now we have also managed to join the agenda of the Government of the State. And I do want to thank him for his predisposition, as President of the Generality, that he does not oppose this path of independent leaders that we are in freedom. It's true that freedom doesn't solve the conflict, it's obvious, we're aware, we know. But it is a necessary first step to be able to do so. And here we see three stages: freedom, dialogue and finally reaching solutions, and this must be the legislature of dialogue and the legislature of politics. And because there is a dialog, and because the table is successful, we see that there are two conditions that are essential and also two things that we ask of you today. The first, which gathers the table of matches before this table of the dialog. Why? So that's why he'll have more strength. It is not the same mandate as the 50_per_cent mandate as the 80_per_cent mandate. And why beyond the parallel organs that you want to create, what is clear is that Catalonia's sovereignty is right in this Parliament. Besides, that also means you can talk about everything in the table. We need to talk about amnesty, we need to talk about self-determination, but also how we gain more sovereignty to take better care of our people. And second, we also ask, as in Comú Podemos, that you rely on us to accompany the government in this process of dialogue. You know that we are the ones in the dialog, yesterday, today and tomorrow, when things were easy and when things were difficult, unlike what their Juntes members have been doing. Therefore, if you want to go through the dialog you will have no better ally than In Comú Podemos. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.112.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member will find us in the way of dialogue and negotiation. Obviously, from the highest ambition in our approaches, it's like a negotiation is always facing. It can't start or end any other way. And therefore, we go with all intent to find political solutions to political problems. Here too it requires courage of all parts. If there is courage on the part of the State, the Catalan side will also continue to have courage and responsibility for respect. On the question of pardons I have spoken in the last few days, and all the rest of the members of the government too. Our proposal is amnesty, because we are not before an individual cause that affects only certain people who are in prison. There is a general cause that affects drawings and drawings of people who are being investigated, not only from the judicial sphere but also from the Court of Auditors, with an absolutely irregular instruction, with a partial view that today goes against independence and can go on to other movements that are exercising government functions in other administrations; it is a very bad precedent. And we, before this general cause, need to fight it from scratch. We fight judicially, it is done in Catalonia, it is also done in your Court of Auditors, it is also done in the area of European jurisdictions, such as exiles and exiles. But here it is necessary to pose-it politics, and politics is amnesty, which is the one that gives cover to a political solution like this country deserves. In any case, all that is needed and useful to alleviate the pain of political prisoners and prisoners will have our full will to work together, all the support, but what we ask is that we do not speculate and that decisions are taken justly and as soon as possible. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.113.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the position of the Government regarding the expansions of the airport and the port of Barcelona in the current climate crisis context]] [[317-00023/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Dani Cornellà, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.114.0	Good morning. What is the position of the Government in relation to the expansions of the airport and the port of Barcelona in the midst of the climate crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.116.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Government of the Government of Catalonia wants to work for a greater well-being, for shared prosperity, and it is now well aware that we have a climate crisis ahead of us that must force us to abandon old ideas of accelerated development. For this reason, I have convened a table of all the institutions and administrations involved in the discussion on the country's airport model, precisely because the proposals that have been made on the enlargement table have an impact on the environment, and what is needed is to work, so that, finally, there is..., if there is a definitive proposal, there is a proposal for consensus that allows economic prosperity, and that is still distributed, and that also allows the preservation of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.117.0	To answer that question, Mr. Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.118.0	Thank you. So as Councillor Jordan has said, or you yourself now, you need to listen to the territory and also call these tables where you can participate. It is necessary to listen, therefore, to the Zeroport Platform or to all the ecological or venous entities that demand the indefinite paralysis of the plans of expansion of the airport and the port of Barcelona. In its moments have already destroyed a thousand hectares of natural space and areas of delta and valley of the Lower Llobregat. Are you clear that the expansion of the airport will mean that the few agricultural and natural areas of the delta that still remain will be destroyed? Are they clear that the European Commission has opened an infringement expedition to the State in order not to adequately protect the ecosystems of the Llobregat Delta and in the same report evaluates how to deny the impact of the expansion of the port of Barcelona? In the midst of the climate crisis, this country cannot fail to meet the climate goals of CO2 reduction. We are talking about energy transition and climate change at the same time that approve oversized infrastructures that directly attack the fight for the reduction of greenhouse gases. You have to decide whether to walk towards the recommendations and guidelines of the Paris agreement and the climate summit recently held in Madrid or whether you want to continue with the same policies as always and always that they have brought us here. Hasn't this crisis really taught you anything? We're not after anything? We cannot continue to lay all the eggs to the cyst of the tourism passing from about 53_million tourists in 2019 to the xifra of 70_million with these enlargements. We worry about our veins and veins, the fauna, the flora, the quality of the air, the health and sustainability, decisively betting on a model change and making this fight effective for the climate change, reducing flights and crevices, thus promoting a change in the energy and transport system. They'll always find us struggling against these projects and they'll find us on the side of who's really fighting the climate change and for a new country model. Now they can sort out if they are, therefore, a green government, next to the energy transition, or if they continue with... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and he continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.119.0	Time's up, Mr. Cornellà. To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.120.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Member, the final decision that is made about these infrastructures is not a decision that will take a single administration. Therefore, there are many administrations involved. I therefore call on this institutional table to be able to work, from the rigorous, putting forward all the proposals, not through media headlines, and making an analysis, as I said, rigorous. And, obviously, talking to everyone; talking to the ecological movement, with the vein movement – obviously – with social agents, with economic entities and also with the European Commission. And you have placed it, and here I would like to extend it a little more. My intention is also that, in parallel with all these work, we can have a dialogue with the European Commission, which is ultimately responsible for what is the design and supervision of the Natura 2000 network, of these protection areas at Community level, because, whatever the decision, it is also agreed with the community institutions. The fight against climate change is not limited only to the infrastructure model, but we obviously have to bet a lot more on the railway, we have to bet a lot more on electric mobility and public transport. And, therefore, there are many other areas that we will have the opportunity to debate in this chamber. We have many initiatives, and we will continue to take, of reduction..., to favor the reduction of emissions, some of the fiscal character that they are putting in the way of this same year, of other relationships with what is the supervision in the field of industry, of emissions. It's one of the great folds of country and counting, so with the Popular Unity Candidacy to forge this... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.121.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the measures envisaged to put the social crisis on the ground. [[Question to the President of the General Council on the measures planned to put an end to the social crisis]] [[317-00018/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.122.0	What measures are planned to put an end to the social crisis facing Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.124.0	We will have a social rescue, a social rescue plan, focused above all on the collectivities that from the point of view of work are most affected by the high levels of work and precariousness. And here we are working intensively with the Department of Business and Work for the next few weeks. We'll get on the road, too, through the Social Dialogue Council, which we'll bring together tomorrow, so, all that's the new business support system. And yesterday we were also working, too, apart from the Department of Enterprise, with the Department of Economy. And above all, we'll strengthen the public service, and we'll be able to access it all. Because everyone in Catalonia is a citizen of this country, everyone who lives there, and everyone has right to universal access to public services.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.125.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.126.0	Mr Aragonès, the Catalans are immersed in one of the worst crises in the last 80 years. We have never seen so many queues of hunger before; we have the worst data on unemployment in recent years, and the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises is dramatic. Mr Aragonès, I am going to ask you to imagine a place, a place where about 500,000 people are standing, around 120,000 workers at ERTE; a place where thousands of businesses have had to close, because it has prevented their owners from working; a place where companies close and go to other countries, driven away by politicians who despise the needs of their people; a place where citizens pay more taxes than elsewhere and that money is intended to encourage confrontation and insolidity; a place where public services have been dismantled by corrupt elites, and a place that accumulates half of the complaints by occupation and leads crime statistics across the country. That place exists, Mr. Aragonès, and it's called Catalonia. And those politicians who have condemned Catalans to fear, precariousness and insecurity also exist; they are their fellow bankers and their governing partners. Catalonia is suffering an unprecedented social crisis: families can't take it anymore, businesses can't take it anymore and neighbourhoods are on the edge, Mr Aragonès. Faced with this situation, you speak only of pardons, amnesty and dark agreements with Mr Sánchez. And no, the solution of Catalonia does not pass by pardons, nor by amnesty, however much you endeavor to repeat it. The solution is to guarantee jobs and to abandon the legal insecurity that destroys them; to help small and medium-sized enterprises that are on the verge of ruin, and to guarantee the livelihood of families; to stop the tax evasion of Catalans, Mr Aragonès, and to facilitate that money is in their pockets and not in the hands of historical evildoers like you; to guarantee security in the neighbourhoods and in the cities, Mr Aragonès, and to stop being accomplices to the migratory mafias, the mafias of occupation and illegal trade. In short, Mr Aragonès, stop wasting Catalans' time and worry about them, not for the interests of four criminals imprisoned for committing the most serious crimes in our legal system. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.128.0	Thank you, President. The problem of bringing in written interventions is that you..., I spoke to him about the Council of Social Dialogue, I spoke to him about helping businesses, caring for the most affected collectivities for the increase of the twilight, and you told me that I spoke of something else. So, I guess this will be commonplace throughout this legislature. I would ask you one thing, which is that we treat with dignity everyone– we treat with dignity everyone–, especially our lives and our lives, which we can hold in any of our barrels, on the side of the house, which they have seen as in the pandemic situation..., but also the inequalities that we have worn for a long time in our country have worsened and put them in a precarious situation. I did not speak again of 'the tails of hunger'. We treat everyone with dignity, especially our fellow citizens, who, in the face of inequalities, are not guilty of them, so they have seen themselves in the obligation to access what social workers are. Miri, you have a model of society that is absolutely contrary to mine. You bet for a minimum state, where your only social policy is to put more cops; not that they're good cops like the security model we have, but there's more cops and more. It's his vision: a reduced state, a tiny state. Except when it's the Spanish State, which then has to be all over the place. On the other hand, we are the public servants, the ones we believe to enhance the welfare state, in which we want you to serve publics for everyone. That's the difference. And probably during this whole legislature we're going to discuss this. But above all I cease to use the anguish, the inequalities and the patience of so many Catalans to impose their totalitarian model of society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.129.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the recovery of social and economic activity in line with the improvement of the evolution of the pandemic and the negotiation with the President of the Government of the State regarding economic and business recovery and investments in Catalonia]] [[317-00021/13]] The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.130.0	Thank you, President. Many honourable Presidents, Councillors and Councillors – welcome and many congratulations on their nomination –, Members and Members, 3_million Catalans and Catalans have already rejected the first dose of vaccine at the end of this week, and therefore every day we sleep more at group immunity desire. This positive development on pandemic control allows the recovery of social activity and also economic activity. Yesterday, Vice President Puigneró inaugurated the ISE, the most important audiovisual industry in the world. It is the first face-to-face, with all the security measures, that is celebrated at the Fira de Barcelona since the outbreak of the pandemic, and it is also a preamble for Mobile, which will have its place this June 28. These events represent an opportunity for growth for emerging companies in our country, but above all they represent an opportunity for recovery for the hotel and catering sector, which, moreover, is to be added to the fact of the arrival of the international crucibles at the Catalan ports and the opening of the night. Undoubtedly, Catalonia has a diversified, dynamic, competitive and internationalized economy. I have shown one fact that we have known this very week: Catalonia is the first region in Europe – the first region in Europe – in the name of peppers that capture European foundations for innovation projects; 246 peppers and Catalan start-ups have captured more than 100_million euros from the European Commission. But as always – as always, never fails – the Spanish State is a rock on the Sabbath for prosperity, progress and the well-being of our country. A few days ago we learned that the Spanish government invested only a 23_per_cent in Catalonia, under the state middle of 2020. In this sense, Mr. Aragones, President of Aragones, we would like to know what the forecast is to address this issue with Mr. Pedro Sánchez and what he expects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.132.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, today the data of the event recorded in this later part of the year have been made public. We are still in extraordinarily high, absolutely unacceptable figures, 481,000 Catalans and Catalans inscribed on the lists of the atur, if well represents a decrease of 3_per_cent in the last month, and Catalonia is the second territory of the State in which there has been a more pronounced reduction of the recorded atur. But, all that, he's still feeling tall. From here on, there are three areas in which we need to act: emergency measures; tomorrow we have the Social Dialogue Council, with trade union and employers' organisations, to agree on aid to the productive sector, which will have an import of up to 1,000_million euros. Secondly, we must continue, therefore, clearly betting on a stabilization of the pandemic. The best measure for economic recovery and also for the tourism sector, which was previously the subject of one of the questions, was the vaccination campaign. And I need to keep moving forward solidly in this sense. In the third place, structural measures, some of which must be driven by the Next Generation funds, which must allow us to create a much more resilient economy. And this will be one of the topics I want to discuss with the President of the Government of the State, so that there is a much more transparent distribution of funds, which allows us to take advantage of all the potentialities of the Catalan economy in this sense. And, obviously, the investment in infrastructure is also a key element and will also be object to... not the negotiating table, which must be about the political conflict, but other bilateral working instruments with the state there. And then we also have to work – and this has also been one of the issues that has been discussed at this control session – to strengthen those instruments that, from the public sector, can help companies in our country to develop their activities and generate prosperity for everyone. And an example, therefore, is the Catalan Institute of Finance; we want to enhance it. In fact, it was the first visit made by the Economic Adviser in the exercise of his office; he was at the Catalan Institute of Finance. And, therefore, public banking, in the same way as it is in the most advanced European economies, will also be a fundamental element of the economic policy of the future in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.133.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the crystallization of consensus to materialize a national agreement of amnesty and self-determination and strategies to resolve the political conflict with the State]] [[317-00022/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Josep Maria Jové, of the Republican Group of Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Welcome, many congratulations and lots of luck to all the advisors and advisors who today are opening you at this control session. Good morning, President Aragonès. His government begins to walk with the approval of seventy-four deputies who represent 52 percent of voters and who want the independence of Catalonia. And we want to complete the path, and to do so we must make self-determination and amnesty inevitable, two concepts that far exceed the frontiers of independence, because they are one of the great consensus of the country. The behind these things make it clear. Three of four Catalans defend a self-determination referendum to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and the State – three of four. I've been there since 2017. The democratic resolution of the conflict is a proposal aimed at all citizens, it is the political reality of the great consensus, such as the public service or democracy as the system of government. Three of every four Catalans also consider that public services work equal to or better than private services. Three_of_each_four Catalans believe that water or sanitation works better in public hands than under private interests. Three of four are against the monarchy. Three_of_each_four is not a smaller figure; it represents the consensus of the principles on which it is built a common one of us. And the consensus for the referendum is so broad, so robust and so firm that it's even overwhelming between the opposition to independence. 53_percent of those who would vote do not defend independence by holding a referendum; more than half of the voters of the Socialist Party of Catalonia agree to celebrate it. Defending the right to self-determination, respecting and transferring a shared society agreement to institutions. Not to do this is to weaken institutions, because the great consensus solidifies a democratic system and to govern against it is to deny the same society. As much as some people agree to deny reality, a self-determination reference like amnesty is not an independent option, it is one of the country's most important consensus, of all democrats. A great deal of agreement around it is an indefensible democratic need, it has to be an insurmountable alliance and it has to come out well because it is from everyone, from the vast majority of the country. President, we know that you are obstinate to rule for everyone and to make all these consensuss possible, from generosity to generosity, you explained. How did you expect to crystallize them now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.135.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.136.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, I explained in the investiture debate. My will – and that is also the case, because it is the consequence of the agreements that made the investiture possible – is the convocation and inn of a national agreement for amnesty and self-determination. And, therefore, in the very days that I will do is to gather, in the first place, with the forces that have already been predisposed to push this great consensus, which are the forces that made the investiture possible. I also want to take part, from this beginning, in what are the sovereign social organizations, but also open to everyone who wants to join for a democratic solution to the conflict between Catalonia and the State, a solution that must have two pillars. For a band, end repression or end the general cause against independence. Therefore, there may be a debate, a negotiation without this spasm of the Damocles of repression. And, for another band, situate democracy, situate the referendum, situate the decision of the citizenry as the center of the solution we propose to respect this conflict with the State. We want to add a lot of people. We believe that the emergencies from the economic and social point of view must continue to work, and in parallel we must go to generating spaces from conflict to understanding, disagreements to agreements and common points. And probably because the diversity of the country is vast, because the diversity of the country is plural, like all societies around us, probably on a country model, on the relationship with the State there will be different opinions. What we could and should do is generate a great consensus on the decision mechanisms, and the decision mechanism must be a reference, with all the options, with the options that may be-there on the table, that each defends its own. It is in this mechanism of decision, absolutely democratic mechanism, propitious to advanced societies, adult societies that know how to resolve their disputes in a solid way and that can also have permanence in time..., so it is precisely the way to call the ballot boxes in a referendum. I am convinced that we would add a lot of people, because the proposal of the reference is one that allows the "yes" and the "do not defend each one's position and that Catalonia decides. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.137.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality about his position respecting the enlargement of the airport of Barcelona - el Prat]] [[317-00024/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Salvador Illa, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.138.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I listened unsurprisingly to the question and the position of the member of the CUP with reference to the expansion of the airport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - El Prat, but I did not see in his answer, very honourable president, a very clear answer. That's why it allows me to rephrase the question. Are you – you – in agreement with the expansion of the airport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - el Prat?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.139.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.140.0	The same way that many mayors of the people of the surrounding region, the same way that the Government of the State has not declared itself to respect in a single position, I have clearly translated it: I am in favour of increasing the competitiveness of the Catalan economy and of preserving biodiversity. It's not a binari theme. It is not a matter of adhering to a proposal. The proposals must be worked on and looked, if possible, at what they can do in accordance with the objective of better competitiveness of the Catalan economy, better connections, good infrastructure, but also with the preservation of biodiversity, which is not a question that we alone decide; it is a question that you decide, as you well know, at Community level, because the estany of Rica forms part of a protection area decided at European level.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.141.0	To answer the question, Mr. Salvador Illa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.142.0	Very honorable president, to rule is to decide. I did not ask him to join any project, I told him if he agrees to expand the airport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - el Prat. You know perfectly well that it makes a contribution to Catalonia's GDP of 6.8_per_cent, that with its expansion to convert it into an international hub we would move to a contribution to Catalonia's GDP of 8.9_per_cent, more than 2.1 points. He knows that the decision has to be made in the next few months because this can be done by 2031. I ask you to lead. You have all the legitimacy and the obligation to lead the country. And they ask that it is positions in favor of..., clearly, in favor of the expansion of the airport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - el Prat. Five years ago you ruled with the same formula you're ruling today, with coalition agreement with Juntes for Catalonia and the Republican Left. We've been feeling it all these five years. I don't want to take it out today at the debate. We felt that if Spain did not give us money... Now there is a concrete proposal, you can discuss, you can improve, to expand the main economic infrastructure of Catalonia. If you lead the country, if you work to pull this infrastructure forward, naturally you do it well, "Well done work has no borders, remember? Catalonia knows perfectly how to do things well girls, Catalonia knows perfectly how to expand an airport respecting the situation of the environment. If you go this way, you'll have me at your side, if you don't, in front of you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.143.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.144.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Head of the Opposition, obviously the Government of the Generality has taken over the leadership of this issue, for this reason I have summoned – and I hope to do so the coming week, with the agendas of all the institutions as possible – an institutional table on the part of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, with the Vice-President, also with all the climate action, with Councillor Jordan, which has a very important part to say, but also with the Barcelona Assembly, with the Prat Assembly, with the round-the-clock assemblies affected, also with the local administrations related to the other airports in the country, so that we can think about the country's airport, with the metropolitan area, with the government too, and this government. And probably, the vision, simply technical, the approximation, the look that can be held from within the scope of the Ministry of Development will probably not be the same that will be held from within the scope of the Ministry of Economic Transition. The Government of the State must process any modification of the Natura 2000 Area and must make a precept report. Then there's no problem that you'll have to answer the generality; we'll do it. Actually, we'd love to be able to do it directly, but, well, we're not a state yet, it'll still come. But I also want to talk to the European Commission. Therefore, this debate needs to be rigorously debated. It is clear that a large majority of this chamber wants to increase competitiveness, by minimizing the environmental impact, is obvious. It is a question that is not easy, that is complex and the way to approach it is with consensus, not with headlines, not with great media campaigns. Therefore, the institutional table, working and finding a solution. And that's leadership.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.145.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. [[Report of the Permanent Assembly]] [[243-00001/13]] In accordance with Rule 75.5 of the Rules of Procedure, the Permanent Chamber reports to the plenary of the Parliament on decisions taken and on matters dealt with in the period between legislatures. As the report of the Permanent Chamber is included in the file of the House which has been distributed to all Members, I would like to ask them to complete their reading. If everyone agrees, we would give by substance this point of the order of the day. [[Communication to the Plenary on the composition of the Bureau of the Permanent Chamber]] [[397-00001/13]] And we would pass the following, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the Permanent Bureau. And also in agreement with what it establishes in Rule 74.3 of the Rules, the composition of the Bureau of the Chamber must be communicated formally to the Plenary. As this composition is also included in the ple file that has been distributed, I also tell them that the reading has been completed. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to account for the structure and composition of the Government]] [[350-00004/13]] Therefore, complete the Rule, we would move to the next item on the agenda, which is already the appearance of the President of the Generality before Parliament to account for the structure and composition of the Government. In accordance with Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure and Article 23.3 of Law 13/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Presidency of the Generality and Government, and in so far as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the plenary to give account of the structure and composition of the Government, the President of the Generality, the very honourable Mr Pere Aragonès and Garcia, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.146.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Deputies, no objection, very good morning to all and all. As is customary in the beginning of a legislature, I appear before this plenary, a formalized date the holding of possession and appointed the councillors and the councillors and the vice president of the Government, to give account before the chamber of composition, structure and organization of the new Government of Catalonia. Let me make it clear that this is an independent and progressive government for women and men who share the will that Catalonia is to become a European republic that is ready and cohesive, that we share that out of the crisis of the Cove-19 we must not leave any behind and that we share the will to transform the country's production model so that it brings prosperity and welfare to everyone, so that it helps us to minimize all forms of inequality and so that this production model is also fully respectful of the environment and compromised in the fight against climate change. I have formed an independent and progressive government that will govern for everyone, for everyone, without any exclusion, without any privileges or discrimination, always bearing in mind the plurality and diversity of proposals and political approaches that exist in Catalan society and that are in good part represented and represented in this Parliament, because we are all the Government of Catalonia. We are not a coalition government; we are the Government of the country, we are the Government of Catalonia. Like all democratic governments, absolutely all, we are a government formed for people with defined political ideas and projects that are public and endorsed by citizens through the ballot boxes, by citizens represented in this Parliament. We also represent, therefore, what is the expressed will of the citizenry in some acronyms, in some political projects about which we join together and which we share the same idea of society and work together to make it possible. In my case, I have told you repeatedly, I have never imagined my independent and left-wing positions: two political positions which today are the majority of the Catalan society and which, as such, will guide the stage that we are starting with my action in front of the government, and which they will do with the sensible country, the southern Catalonia, because we are the Government of Catalonia and we are responsible for counting with everyone. What we will do is to put all our transformative will into the service of all the citizens, with an open mind, with an ample gaze, with a willful sum and always, always, always, working with all the vocation of public service that must have any government of the Generality. Being an independent and progressing government does not make us good or painful to enter, nor does it make us infallible to enter; like all governments, if we become worthy of the trust of the citizenry, it will be decided by the citizens and citizens at the end of the legislature. But these ideas are the coordinates with which I have undertaken to start a new stage in order not to give a new, more modern, innovative, efficient, close, transparent Generality. In short, a generality in line, much more in line with the Republican values we share with the government. Since the investiture debate, but also on other occasions, I have heard myself say repeatedly: the country needs a sacking, get up to date, and immediately push this transformation into four spheres, four axes, four missions. Social transformation, to transform the product model and strengthen the welfare state; the transformation into a feminist key, to overcome the patriarchy that is still present today in our society; the green transformation, to face the climate change, and, also, the transformation into a democratic key, to resolve – once and for all – the political conflict with the State. That is why it is essential that the structure of the Government also responds to these needs. If we want to sack the country, the first step..., the first one to take was to sack the government; to redraw a government adapting it to the needs of the Catalonia of 2021 and to the reptes we know we will face, not only today, but at the length of the next decade. Some of the changes of this new stage are seen in plain sight, beginning with the fact that it is the first government of the history of the Government of Catalonia that incorporates more advisers than advisers. But there are changes in funds, much more funds than this, that they will be visualizing, as the legislature moves forward, in this new form of governance, focused on cooperation and teamwork, that you seek at all times to break the compartments of the pond and that you do not do us for – and does not do us for – evaluating and re-advising, because this is the best way to move forward and progress. Assess and act with maximum transparency, explaining things as they are, with uncertainties and also with errors that will occur, and learn, learn from errors so as not to make old mistakes. We want to communicate everything, also with maximum agility and clarity. Among other measures, we have striven to professionalize the figure of the government's spokesman, prioritizing the highest quality of the generality's communications and thus providing better information to the citizenry, which is a basic step to strengthen confidence between the citizenry and the institutions. That is just an example of how we can and must be disruptive, imaginative and innovative. And, with this mentality, we designed the joint structure of the government. We've done it together, as it's close to a coalition government, coming to terms. As you know, the group of councillors and councillors will appear individually before parliamentary committees to explain the government's main objectives in each of these departmental areas. And I am convinced that, in these commissions, there will be enough space to discuss in depth the more sectoral aspects of each of the government departments. But, in this today's appearance, I think it's good that I'm being entertained, even though it's very short, to get into the backs of each of the fourteen councils – a council more than the previous government – to share with all of you who were the motivation of creation, who was the motivation, too, of the reordering of some of the competitions, but above all, the vision and the impulse, the dynamic of work, which we want to do for each of these councils. I'm starting with the Department of the Presidency. Councilwoman Laura Vilagrà has the task of rotating a council that will have to ensure, also, the cross-cutting of policies and that joins and coordinates a good part of the structures and agencies responsible for making the government work, ensuring effective management and always thinking about improving the service to the citizenry. The Presidency Councillor, we thought of it as a lever of transformation of the Government, which must allow the Administration to modernise with the combination of departments and promote innovative, pro- and efficient governance. The civil service model has to have a role to play, because the Administration is basically its public servers and servers; maximizing at all times the good know-how of the excellent collection of public workers and workers that we have in the Generality of Catalonia. We want a government on the side of the people, of all the citizens, who work for the honest country, for the honest Catalonia, and demand that we think about the whole country from all the prisms. U.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. n country that is complex, that is diverse and, therefore, starting from this complexity exist in all and each of the decisions we have to make. And this is also one of the main tasks of the government's number two, of the vice president, Jordi Puignero, and of the department that encapsulates it of the vice president, of digital councils..., of digital policies and territories. The pandemic has accelerated many of the changes and trends that have already occurred in our society. And what we want is that these trends don't get watered down. We want to star in them, focus on them, and that, therefore, where it can be a threat, turn it into an opportunity for the conjunction of the people. And, in this sense, we want to perfectly align, in a complete way, the policies of digitization, mobility, planning and management of infrastructures and also the policies of access to housing. As the vice president said before in the control session, it is necessary to interconnect all these perspectives, all these policies. From design, deployment and planning policies of what we could say about the infrastructures of our segment – optical fiber, 5G, underwater cables – to the nine forms of transport and mobility that we have to face and that are absolutely essential in the fight against climate change. And it has to be done from a joint country visit, an integral one, because we want to bring equality of opportunity to all parts of the territory. We have the precedents with the extent of the country's optical fiber, and this spirit will guide the rest of the actions of the Vice-President of the Government. Because, above all, what we want is to improve the quality of life of the city of Catalonia. We want a well-traveled, well-connected country, a country – this southern Catalonia – that offers equal opportunities to the citizenry, regardless of the city, the town or the region on visquin. Digital policies are the new social lift, which push the country's conjunction towards the future and, therefore, do so from the Vice-President of the Government gives it this cross-cutting environment, which is absolutely essential for all the digitisation that we have to carry out throughout the country. In this sense, it is essential that, since the Vice-President and the Digital Policy Council, it is continuing to work harder than ever and in cooperation with the Department of Enterprise and Work, a department that has to respond to a double need. First of all, to rebuild the country economically, but also to guarantee a decent job for everyone. Councillor Roger Torrent has a difficult task, but a task that will be carried out, to move towards overcoming the crisis caused by the covid-19– so far, to get out of the crisis, the urgency– but, at the same time, to deepen the transformation of our country's production system so that it is much more sustainable, much more resilient, much more diversified, outward-oriented, based on innovation and therefore able to generate well-being and prosperity for all of our citizens. In the area of enterprise in this department, it will be important to promote business recovery, with particular attention to the sectors most affected by the pandemic. And that's what we're working on right now. And also, with a closer look at the next few years, but starting to work already, take advantage of the European Foundations Next Generation to boost the economic sectors that have the most capacity to transform, with more added value, more future and more ability to generate a positive impact on the society's joint venture. In the field of work, economic transformation must lead us to build among all a product that can generate quality work places. The overcoming of this crisis cannot be done again on the basis of economic policies, which by chance we have overcome, of reducing expenditure, nor of reducing the real wages of workers and workers, nor of working conditions. We'll get out and be much more resilient if we're able to do it based on innovation, talent and added value. And that's what we'll do from the concertation, generating great consensus with the social agents, economics and politics of the country, to build a Catalonia that you put people in the center for economic transformation. And we'll empower the social dialogue. Tomorrow, the first meeting of the Social Dialogue Council. This whole job's cool, it's top priority. The business perspective and work will have to find complicity, and they are already working with all complicity with the Economics and History Council. Councillor Giró, as the most responsible for the finances of the Generality, will play a decisive role in the urgency of raising the economic activity of the country and, as I said, the need to transform the economic system in order to make it more forthcoming, more just, sustainable and, above all, placing the life of the citizenry at the centre of decisions. We have two instruments, in this sense, of economic policy. For a band, the Next Generation fund, which was previously mentioned, and the Catalan Institute of Finance, which is already, therefore, in the way of operating as a public bank and which will certainly strengthen the will to act as an authentic state undertaking from the Generality of Catalonia. And this will also be reflected in the policies in defense of the welfare state, in the new assumption that it will work from the Economic and Historical Council, which will respond to the new context of overcoming the crisis caused by the covid-19 and which will have as its main objective to improve, unequivocally, the life of the citizenry. And we will work intensely and want a great deal of agreement around our own premise. All this transformational vocation in the economic sphere must have its equivalent, also, at the social level, starting with a fundamental aspect, which this Government takes as the first of its commitments: the eradication of gender inequalities and the eradication of male-based violence, in order to guarantee equal treatment and equality of all types of discrimination in all spheres. For this reason, we have created the councillorship of Equality and Feminisms, a new department that expands and reinforces the structures dedicated to equality that existed in previous governments, but above all it has a central political role that homologates us to the most advanced democracies. We want equality policies to be designed and implemented from the highest political level and to be a backbone of all government action, and that is why it was essential to count on a councillor of Equality and Feminisms to turn the endless transformation into a feminist compromise. And I am convinced that Councilwoman Tània Verge will push, in this context, too, the enormous sacked that like the country and like society we need to start to leave the patriarchy behind. This is an example of the need we will need to work in a coordinated way in all the councils, since inequalities have multiple causes and also have multiple effects. They can only be eradicated from a cross-cutting and cross-sectoral approach, starting from the diversity of the society's joint venture and through a real dialogue with social movements, with entities that also work to build a country that is referring to the guarantee of human rights. For her part, Councilwoman Alsina, as the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs and Transparency, has the task of captivating Catalonia's external projection to Europe and the world, at all levels: at the social, economic level, at the level of our country's cultural potential, but also, obviously, with all democratic challenges, because Catalonia has to be present in all European and global debates making the foreign policy of a country that wants to be a state. It can strengthen the coordination of all the organizations of the Generality that have an external projection: Action – the Agency for the Competitiveness of the Enterprise –, the Ramon Llull Institute, the Catalan Tourist Agency, the Catalan Institute of Cultural Enterprises, Prodeca, in the field of food exports, to project Catalonia throughout the world. And, at the same time, we must stop working to build alliances and complicity in resolving the political conflict with the State on the basis of the right of Catalans to decide peacefully, freely and democratically our future collection. As I have said so many other times, the proposal is clear: through a reference on the independence of Catalonia. The other responsibility of Councilwoman Alsina takes on a key, substantive, and transforms the action of the Government: transparency, open government and citizen participation, some essential tools to improve the quality of our democracy and public decisions, some essential tools that we will use without fear and with the utmost naturality, because they are instruments that must allow us to hold back citizens and strengthen the much-needed trust in the institutions. And we can only talk about "good governance if we evaluate ourselves, if we govern from the assessment of public policies, because this is the best way to ensure effective management of public resources, above all to take the best decisions and offer better service and attention to the citizenry. It is the key to the transformation into the democratic challenges that we have undertaken to implement. For what he does to the Department of Education, Councillor González Cambray has the duty to resume and continue with more force than ever the transformation of the education system, to combat school segregation, a struggle that has begun with much force, in a very determined way, on behalf of Councillor Bargalló, that the pandemic has placed us with our backs and that we will continue. The education system plays a neural role in our society, especially for the ability to drive fund changes to ensure equal opportunities and equity. It is necessary to make a strategic bet to strengthen the education system, without delay and without excuse, always prioritizing the welfare and personal growth of students, taking into account their diversity. And, in this sense, I have no doubt, as the Councillor had previously expressed very clearly, that we have professionals of excellence, essential to make it possible. Thanks to your efforts we were able to keep the schools open all this course, with all the guarantees; it seemed impossible one year ago. The school year was a successful round. This is why I want to thank, once more, the effort, the involvement, of all the educational community and especially of the students of our country; we are in debt with them too. Today I think we are all aware that we will not go back to the school that was there before covid-19: the pandemic has forced us to transform, adapt, the education system. It is our responsibility to take advantage of this change context to take a step forward and give the system the impulse it needs; we will do so. The school will also start this new stage that will take advantage of the entire transformative potential of the education system. At the side of the strategic bet for education as a tool of empowerment and emancipation of the citizenry, we need to place the bet for research, for knowledge, for higher education. A bet that intertwines with the work that will also be done in the most economical character departments and that also demands the potential and strength that it offers to have again a close research and university consultancy. That's why we recovered this department, with the leadership of Consteller Gemma Geis. If we really want to be a modern and advanced country, if we really want to bring this transformation to an end, if we create the knowledge society, we need to offer to the university, to the research centers and to the entire system of generation and transfer of knowledge the political soul that corresponds to it; and, therefore, this has been the feeling of the creation of this new council. And the first step, from here, is to provide our country's research and university system with better funding. We know that this is the first priority: to begin to advance once again, taking advantage of the full potential of our university system, ensuring fairness in access to higher education, and also the full potential of research centres, research centres in Catalonia that many of them are of reference, not at European level, but at global level, at international level. We have strategic consent, the National Covenant for the Society of Knowledge, and we will have the tool, the approval..., which will be from the first laws that will come out of the furnace of government, from the law of science. Another of the strategic stakes of this government is the fight against climate change; it is the bet for a transformation to achieve this green Catalonia, and that is why a new council, the climate action, food and rural agenda, has been created to bring about the unsurpassed economic transition. As the country we have global reptes in climate, environmental, agri-food and territorial cohesion as well. These are challenges that we have as a country and as a society; the government will not take them away, the government will take them in and act. And this will be the main function of Counsellor Teresa Jordan: to face the challenges and transform this reality. Catalonia must take the path of the green revolution, and it must take the hand of the environmental sector and the agri-food sector together: it is time to cooperate, instead of competing; it is time to listen to everyone; it is time to listen to the territory as well; it is time to dialogue with all the communities involved, because we will only make progress from broad consensus, which will therefore be solid consensus; it is time to make decisions. The climate change doesn't wait, we can't do it either. The Department of Health, with the advisor Argimon in the front, will be in charge of managing the current step of the pandemic scenario to post-pandemic, the post-covid country; a separation that is not entirely clear, that we know, therefore, that forces us to continue to give response even to the effects that the covid has, without stopping thinking at any moment in the future of our public health system. At these times we have an epidemiological situation that improves in global terms thanks to the good results of vaccination, to the responsibility of the citizenry, to the decisions that have been taken, but above all to the great compromise of the health professionals and the rest of the essential sectors. This draws a hopeful horizon but full of reptiles too; we have to go on and we don't have to relax for a moment. From here, continue to manage the pandemic; address its consequences, also in terms of salvation; recover, therefore, the usual healthcare activity, which in some cases, therefore, has not been able to continue to carry out with all its potential, because we were focused on what were the actions before the entrances of people affected by covid; strengthen the system and prepare it for the future; have an extensive vision of salvation, incorporating the community perspective, putting primary care at the centre and having many reptes present in the field of mental health of our country. One essential step in achieving this is to improve the structural financing of the system. We need to get the resources we need to provide the health system with the leap before we can dispose of it, and it is essential, therefore, that these resources that we have rejected during the pandemic, which were conjunctural, are converted into structural ones. On the other hand, from the Interior Department, Councillor Joan Ignasi Elena has the task of getting back to the way we can further improve the model of democratic police we have in the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. In the later years, the repts on our security system, as well as the risk management repts and emergencies, have increased. We need to address again how we update our model of public security, from the perspective of human security brought by the United Nations, from the recognition and defence of the professionalism of public servants who conform to the Squadron's Cos de Mossos, also from the local police, and also from the constant will of the better. I am growing up with Councillor Elena in front of us we have the opportunity to face this debate, in a paused but decisive manner and in a positive way; today we have not had an exhibition, and in a firm way in which it is..., we have not had an exhibition at the control session, with strong consensus, with a constructive vision, which must follow from the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra a modern police and reference at the international level. We also continue to work in all areas of civil protection, emergencies, strengthening the Generality of Catalonia's Firehouse and integrating rural agents into the Department of Interior; therefore, it will also allow us to consent to what was the former Agricultural Councillor..., and this will allow us to have an integral view of this point of view of human security and generate positive synergies. In parallel with the field of human security, another priority of the new government is the need to strengthen the whole system of cures. Traditionally it has been the weakest trunk of the welfare state, and this we have to reverse, but the pandemic has shown us how unstoppable it is, how essential it is, how we have to take care of and cure our healers, those who take care of us. For this reason, the Department, with the name of "Social Rights", gives an unequivocally transformative impulse to have cabdal tools that we must continue to empower and manage, such as guaranteed income from citizenship. We need to have all the other rendering protection systems present. We want to be innovative, develop basic income pilot plans, have a vision that is also open to how we are compatible and improve coordination with the vital minimum income of the State or other social services. We want to place the citizenry, the welfare, at the centre of all and every decision we make. Better quality of life than any other citizen. In this area of the department, in the area of cures, in the area of social rights, all the citizens of Catalonia are concerned, all of us, at one time or another in our life, so we will see and we can be users, we can be citizens who participate in the services, in the system of cures of our country. Because the object of this government is not only to focus on material welfare, but also on the happiness of the citizenry. The aim, therefore, of the Social Rights Council, with the Consellera Violant Cervera in the front, is this reinforcement of the system of social rights and care for the dependence of our country. As I said, the department will play a decisive role in the full emancipation of the citizenry, especially in those stages of life or circumstances in which we experience greater vulnerability from the individual point of view, but also collect. We will have to work in other areas, too, to ensure that all citizens are equally free. And here we must not forget the essential role that culture plays, with all the emancipatory and transformative potential. Culture, no doubt, makes us more free than people and society. Culture accompanies and empowers us to think about freedom, to transform our country. And as the democratic, modern and advanced society we want to be, it's absolutely priceless. For this reason, Constable Garriga has the task of accompanying and exploiting the full potential of the country's cultural sector with a transformative and modern vision. If we want to be a society that is brighter, fairer, more feminist, greener, more free, culture has a fundamental role to play, and that goes, in part, to improve funding, as we have committed ourselves to the agreement of government, but it also goes to drive a transformation of the audiovisual sector, and also to regain all the ambition to make progress, once again and with all the strength, the Catalan language. Finally, from the Department of Justice, Councillor Lourdes Ciuro will promote a mogul council for the shared values of freedom, equality and democracy. In the field of Justice Administration, the main challenge continues to be that of modernizing and gaining agility. Mass sometimes, the slowness of decisions in the judicial sphere ends up causing injustice, and it goes to the detriment of the victims, of the people who need access to the Administration of Justice to resolve the disputes inherent in our society. It is necessary to continue working, too, to establish a prison system based on rehabilitation and reintegration. The Department of Justice is a department of social character and with this vocation we will work with Councillor Ciuro in the lead. We will also do so in other areas, such as memory policies, the impetus of civil law, also, not considering civil law in our country as a reminder of the past, but as a basis for regulating better relations between people in our country. In short, all these are the main motivations behind the new structure of the Government. As Members and Members have been able to prove, many of the objects will not be able to complete a department or a councillor alone. Therefore, this idea of cooperation, of teamwork on the part of the different departments is very important. It's a responsibility that we all have as the government. And, if I may, it is a self-requirement that we make my first, as President of the Generality, but that we make ourselves at the government's side all the councillors and all the councillors. Returning to teamwork there is a better service to the citizenry and it is what we are close to offering as the first public servers in the country we need to consider. With the constitution of the Government, therefore, we pose a massive stage of uncertainty and interinitiation that has been forced for repression because of the unjust disqualification of President Joaquim Torra and after the subsequent electoral call. We begin, therefore, a new stage that must be marked by the overcoming of the crisis caused by the covid-19, by the transformation of the product model, orienting it towards the need to generate more welfare and prosperity for everyone, and also to face the urgent resolution of the political conflict with the State, and our proposal will go to defend it all: amnesty and exercise of the right to self-determination. It won't be easy. Counselors and advisors and the vice president know that these reps are huge, that they will require all our efforts, all our involvement and all our good know-how and even more, from this team work, maximum determination, maximum ambition, more extended to the citizenry, more extended to all parliamentary groups. It won't be easy. The reps are huge, but the reps are unstoppable, and we will face this transformation of social character, feminist green and democratic that the country needs. We have already set out to work to make possible the change of stage of this new independentist government and progress, without further delay. For all this, I will continue to seek, we will continue to seek, the support and complicity of the conjunction of the Parliament of Catalonia. This is the best way to serve the citizenry, to project the country, the whole country, towards a future with more prosperity, well-being, freedom and happiness for everyone. Many thanks to all, honourable Members, honourable Members, Councillors, Councillors, Vice President, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.147.0	Representatives of parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of two minutes each. The words of Mr. Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.148.0	Madam President... very honourable President, Councillors and Councillors, two previous considerations very quickly, because we have work, President. The first, to condemn the masculinist murders; there hasn't been one more time since the last time I took the word in this hemisphere. And second, to condemn the homophobic attacks of this past week, six, in Catalonia; seventy, in which year goes. Against hatred and intolerance, zero impunity. Counselor Tània Verge, has our support on this subject. First of all, I want to welcome all our advisors and advisors, with all sincerity I say to them: serving Catalonia is an honor; it is serving society, more still serving Catalonia. And I say this from the political gap, I'm sure you'll be at the height of your job in terms of dedication, in terms of willingness to do good things, in terms of effort and work. I wish them, as I did with the very honorable president, fate and uncertainty, because their fate and their uncertainties will be the fate and uncertainties of all of us and Catalonia. I also want, from this rostrum, to express my gratitude and my personal consideration – I think I can also say this on behalf of my group, from the political discrepancy, also sometimes even deep – to the outgoing councillors and advisors: Mrs. Budó, Mr. Tremosa, Mr. El Homrani, Mr. Sàmper, Mr. Vergés, Mr. Bargalló, Mr. Solé, Mr. Damià Calvet, Ms. Angels Ponsa and Ms. Esther Capella. My best wishes, on my behalf and on behalf of my group, as much personal as they may have. And I even get up and make them a petition, which is to help dignify politics as public service now that they are no longer advisors, but they have the honor of serving Catalonia. Actually, thank you for your hard work, from the maximum... from the deep political discrepancy. Mr. Aragones, very honorable president, you have all the right of the world to organize your government as it seems best, you'd just miss it, huh? Now, I have some considerations to make. Miri, the one you present in this chamber, the government you have presented, gathered in two decrees, right? , Decree 21/2021 of May 25, and Decree 22/2021 of May 26, are more than the same. It's more of the same. A scheme of a bipartite government that has carried operating to Catalonia five years, with external support of the CUP anti-system, right? The changes you have explained are cosmetic changes, from my point of view, tend to store five painful, very painful years for Catalonia. I just... I could stretch out a lot, but I just want to give some data to the whole government joint so that I can clear the starting point after five years of your joint government, right? Catalonia is the autonomous community where the index of severe poverty grows the last few years. This is your starting point after five years, two years, if you want, of your government: 478,000 people in severe poverty, sixty-thousand plus the year 2019. Half the population of Catalonia, a 50,9_per_cent to be precise, has difficulties to arrive at the end of the month – 50,9_per_cent of the population of Catalonia. Gives you years of government, doesn't it? And the poor child doesn't stop growing up. This is the starting point. From here, fix's, fix if you have work to do and to pull forward. I can't make a few comments about the structure of the government, can I? First of all... they recognize that you have all the right of the world to organize yourself as you seem best, and you have all my respect in this sense. First, man, if you see it, or it seemed to us to see in some things the reflex of this tortuous negotiation process that took three_months and that settled in forty-four hours, in an almost magical way, to make a government, was there to get the key in the cabotage. We've seen it, or it seemed to us to see it, as far as communication strategy is concerned, right? In point 3.1.5 of the decree and in point 3.4.18 they divide it between Presidency and Economy and History. I think it's more orderly and simpler than the government's communication strategy, if it's a well-understood government, it's brought by a counselor or a counselor, not by sharing it between two. Certainly, Mr. Giró, you have enough work to make the assumption of the Generality. I'd like to see this year's very soon possible. It didn't seem like it either... well, let's hope it went well, shall we? But it also seemed to us to see a little reflection of this tension between the agreements that you have taken so long to conclude; all that makes reference to the bidding of infrastructures, which is located in Economy and History, right? In other words, there's a Department of Infrastructure. It would seem more logical than it was the Infrastructure Department that dealt with the infrastructure of the Generality, Mr. Puignero. We don't have a good record of the precedents we have in this contract location material to the Department of Economics and History and not the Department of Infrastructure, it doesn't have a good record. It's more, it makes us think of dark pages in Catalonia, said with all due respect. We'll be careful what's going on in this chapter. There are also some things that, if I may, would qualify me as "lessons, no? I refer to the mention that is made in the decree in relation to some competences of social rights, which is literally said "without prejudice that in what can be said in these matters can be attributed to the Health Department". Who do they attribute themselves to? I'm talking about social welfare services, I'm talking about big people's policy, and I'm talking about non-lost items: 12.1, 12.3, 12.6 and 12.7 of the decree. Does this bring Social Rights or does it bring Hi? I already know what I think because I've already said it. Well, you yourself had to make decisions on the last government, to assign it to Salut, that. Here, Mr. Argimon, don't worry about that. I'm telling you from the highest point of view and respect. Let's learn, I'd say, don't rush into this chapter. And he's got some faults, isn't he? From our point of view, too, in the field of sports. He's a member of the Presidency, Mrs. Vilagrà, but it seems to us that you've got quite a lot on your mind because, well, if not a counselor, you have a commission, don't you? , and not the adscript to a simple secretary. Or in the field of vocational training. Here and all, if I don't mess with myself, they fail to complete the law that passed this Parliament, not the year it passed, five years ago..., six years ago, 2015, which says that "it will create an agency of professional formation that will depend on the Presidency. And we would like to see professional training, which is divided between Work and Education, which we took from the Presidency, to pull it forward, naturally, because we carry many years stuck on this assumption. Or we've also liked it – it's a lot to ask – that we've had it – maybe they'll do it with some general direction – some specific consideration for everything that refers to animal rights and animal movement. I think it would be relevant, for example, a general direction in this sense, right? Well, even so, you have the right to organize yourself as best... and you, Mr. Aragones, as best you seem, eh? What are we gonna do? An alternate government of Catalonia, which I will present in the proper days, right? , alternate government, integrated by Members and Members of my group, who will be in contact with each of the advisors of the respect group, will offer them cooperation in what we can hear and tax – not take it badly, but it is our job – will tax the work you do. I hope that I have taken it as a stimulant and as a responsible exercise, as well as that you, Mr Aragonès, take it, as an exercise responsible for our opposition pocket, that we will do and consciously do, eh? Don't get mad, I said, Mr. Aragones, and I want to say to you today, we will not give you a hundred, nor fifty, nor come, nor thirty, nor two, nor a day, because we believe that Catalonia cannot waste time. And you carry... not you, but if your respectable parties, you have enough time to rule as if you have clear ideas of respect. And, by the way, Mr. Aragones. You spoke of an independent government and progress. Look, every time you say that, I'll tell you the same thing, it's an oxymo: progressism and independence not home, not home. Water and oil are not home, it is not barren. Why? It's very simple, because independence is selfishness and progressism is solidarity. It's my point of view and every time you say it, I'll remember it. A second consideration, too. Mr. President, things, things. If you go to things, you'll have our support. "To things I want to say to make a presupposition for this year, which is where black is placed on white, where resources are laid. It is not reasonable that a government that carries five years or two parties that carry five years of governing together, you had the responsibility of Economy, you are not prepared to enter immediately into this room a premise for this year. We bring resources that must be put into the social purpose service that you yourself mentioned in this appearance. Or, for example, I told him earlier in the airport. Here you know that you can count on it, if you lead the country, you know that you can count on the support of our group. Or in matter– he also came out at today's control session– of the Circuit de Montmeló, or Barcelona Catalunya, Barcelona Montmeló, which is a circuit that also carries rich. Things, Mr. Aragones, and Mr. Counselors and Counselors, things, right? And I don't want him to take it badly, because no, I say it with the utmost respect, but the summary you've made of the tasks you have of each of the counselors, I think it's more, shorter and smoother, everything you haven't done these past few years and, in some cases, the opposite of what you've done. Say stay with the utmost respect, but also with all the strength. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.149.0	Mr. Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, then has the words. [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.150.0	Now he's coming...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.151.0	Really? That he's not here at this time, Mr. Garriga? Ah, he's going this way. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If there is no Mr. Garriga, someone from his group, from his own parliamentary group, may speak. Yes, Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.152.0	I understand you're giving up your word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.153.0	Yes, it was that I had understood, it was that I was coming from behind. That's why I was asking, and they're telling me he's not here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.154.0	I understand that I do not and therefore ask you to continue giving to the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.155.0	Indeed, there is the possibility that someone from your group will intervene on your behalf or, if not, we will move to the next group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.156.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...we didn't know. We've surely sinned as rookies. Surely Mr. Garriga thought...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.157.0	It is mandatory for Members to attend the plenary and follow it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.158.0	No, if you've just come out. But we thought that the Junts or D'Esquerra group would also talk, as they do in other places. I think he thought about that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.159.0	No, no, The order is always from major to minor, with the government groups at the end. Therefore, Mr. Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidature - A new cycle to win, has the word... [[Pause. Ignacio Garriga Concicao Vaz enters the Session Hall.]] You're telling me that he was cut off from his mask, Mr. Garriga? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's that I called him to make his intervention. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; we've been waiting for you. I first understood that I had come out of the sky. Now you're telling me you had a problem with the mask... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] She's got two minutes to make her intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.160.0	Thank you, Madam President. I forgive the exceptional situation. Mr Aragonès, today you have come to present us the most expensive, numerous and with more advisers with open judicial cases in the history of Catalonia, a clear example of what you represent: political waste and plugging in your client network. All you have to do is see what it took to set it up, right? , the fruit of his distribution of prebenda and his high offices. I would like to propose from here that you endorse the proposal we announced yesterday from our parliamentary group to urge you, for the first time, that it will be in a few weeks' time, in which you will be fighting with all your advisers to reduce the Government from fourteen advisers to eight advisers. Its fourteen councils, of which four are involved in judicial proceedings: Ms. Nàtalia Garriga, Councillor of Culture, accused of misappropriation; Mr. Roger Torrent, Councillor of Enterprise and Labour, accused of the crime of disobedience; Ms. Tània Verge, Councillor of Feminism and Equality, recently tried for disobedience, acquitted, but appealed by the prosecution, therefore, open case; Mr. Josep Cambray, Councillor of Education, was arrested in the Volhov case and is being investigated and could be responsible for crimes of misappropriation, prevention and trafficking of influence. A government led by two criminals from prison, whose puppeteer, not content with it, appoints and counts his fellow criminals as advisors in the new government. And then they'll really wonder why we call them the separatist mafia. You are trying to normalize absolutely embarrassing public behaviour, which should blush, Mr Aragonès, to any Democrat, rather than encouraging, for example, exemplary or meritocracy. Mr Aragonès, you have made it clear – and you said it here a few minutes ago – your priorities: Catalan republic, green, feminist, amnesty, self-determination and referendum. Everything that ordinary Catalans don't need. It is a perfect compendium led, as I told you, by a puppeteer, in the hands of two criminals, and what will do everything possible to continue to confront and divide Catalans, breaking the law and attacking the nation. We have heard different opposition political groups in recent days. Some say they will give you room to see how your government develops. And I have to tell you that we, from the VOX Parliamentary Group, are not going to give the government a moment of grace, as I have said, with more imputed people in history and with a clear will, no doubt, to go through this endless path of illegality and to subvert the constitutional order. You have also spoken that you are going to represent all Catalans. Are you really going to represent all Catalans? So get out here and break once and for all that health cord, rather, that deeply undemocratic cord against the first national force in this chamber. If we begin to analyze your government, we discover that they have turned the autonomous government into a chiringuite – yes, of those that you love so much – to place your associates. The Vice-President, Mr Jordi Puigneró, who has as his cover letter the creation of the Catalan NASA, where all Catalans have burned their money; is it perhaps a little bit more to divert the funds that the workers of Catalonia are not receiving? What can we expect from someone who said Christopher Columbus was Catalan and his name was Cristofor? As a Business and Labour holder, Mr Roger Torrent, who has not been a member of a public office since he was twenty years old when he joined as a councillor. Explain to so many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are on the verge of ruin that someone who has not paid a quarterly statement in his life and who has not paid an autonomous quota will manage that portfolio. It demonstrates the importance you attach to economic recovery and job creation. What lessons will someone who is accused of disobedience give? From here I want to remind you that there are more than 600,000 Catalans who want to work and cannot. And your separatism, which you promote, creates legal uncertainty, which is contrary to investment and job creation. He was talking about a process of re-industrialization. You are the main enemies of the possible reindustrialization of our land. Work once and for all to ensure decent jobs and decent wages. As Education Advisor, Mr. Cambray. We heard him this morning in the control session and I would like to recall that he was arrested in the framework of Operation Volhov, in a process of investigation whose first contribution has already been to send a document to the teachers talking about the falsified Republican Generalitat. Look, Mr. Cambray..., and Mr. Aragonès, you have spoken about the great challenges facing the Education Council, and I want to tell you from here to take out the hands of our children, to respect the convictions of the parents and to abandon once and for all their ideological delusions. They will have us in front of them to defend the freedom that is close to them, the parents to choose the education they want for their children. You are going to stand up to us to defend concerted education; to defend, too, differentiated education, which is not segregated, because the only ones that segregate on this earth are all of you. And be truly concerned about ending the barracks that are flooding our territory, and stop advancing in their ideological delusions. And so I could go on with each of your counselors. With the flaming consellera d'Igualtat i feminist, a little chiringuit created to generate confrontation, to replace that ancient and classic class struggle, now replaced by the struggle between men and women, when we have, Mr Aragonès, an article of the Constitution, article 14, which I recommend you to read and read it many times, where the equality of all Spaniards is recognized. Therefore, it is not necessary to create more chiringuitos as you have us used to. In the council of Salut continues Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, who as we all know well tried to prevent the agents of the National Police and the Civil Guard from being vaccinated. In the Foreign and Transparency Consulting, the best they could do is suppress the. Suppressing it and dedicating themselves to transparency, but to transparency: publish how many chiringuitos have Catalonia, how many high offices are installed in those chiringuitos, how many grants each and every one of these chiringuitos receive. Let us hope that in that transparency the Counsellor will work. To Mr. Giró, tell him to take advantage to eliminate once and for all all all the subsidies that receive so many public media and so many organizations in Catalonia, and they dedicate that money to the social emergencies that workers and families in Catalonia are suffering. That's where we hope to find Mr. Giró. As Climate Action Advisor, Teresa Jordà. Little to say. And, about Interior, because the truth, I was hoping... [[remorse of the voice]] I was hoping that the Home Secretary would come and do some fire work in the face of the growing insecurity we have in Catalonia and have come to lead an attitude of an authentic pyromaniac. You, how do you have the defachability, the shame of saying that my political formation promotes violence? Have you seen the images of the recent election campaign on February 14? Do you know that speeches like yours translate into stones, cans, and street persecution? The only violent ones in this Chamber are their government colleagues, who are those of the CUP. The same ones who called on their public television to throw stones at my political formation. Therefore, I would ask you not to miss the truth and to really dedicate yourself in body and soul to restoring security in the streets, so that Catalans can go out and buy, to walk with their children with absolute normality. And, as the spokesman for our parliamentary group has said, stop politicizing the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps and give it all the tools to restore law and order to the streets, whether it be foam or water, or whatever it takes to put criminals in prison. [[Some applause.]] In the face of the worst government... we have the worst government at the worst possible time. And I told him in the investiture speech, that he knows that we are going to follow in detail each and every one of his actions, here, in parliamentary office, and out. And that to every action outside the law, there will be denunciation, and to every request for pardon there will be recourse. And we will mobilize the Catalans in the streets, Mr Aragonès, together with civil society, to make it clear to them that they are not alone and that before this government and that of its accomplices in Madrid, the Catalans will always have those who defend them. And you, before, to finish, were blushing, getting nervous because I was telling the reality, yes, of the Catalans, of the queues of hunger. Yes, there are queues of hunger, Mr Aragonès, I told you two weeks ago, you go down to the street, step up the street, listen to the neighbors, go to Sant Agustí Square, for example, from Barcelona, and see how many families have to go to get your bag to eat. Families whom you, for your ideological delusions and for moving forward on your rupturist agenda that generates legal insecurity and job destruction, have condemned to misery. Therefore, as I have said, I am as Catalan as you, I represent..., I have the honour to represent, moreover, more than 200,000 Catalans, that as I have said we will be very vigilant... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.161.0	Time's up, Mr. Garriga. [[Some applause.]] Next, has the word Mr Carles Riera on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.162.0	Thank you, President. Well, after this intervention that preceded me, I can only paraphrase Commander Chávez when he intervened in the United Nations after an intervention by Mr. Bush, he said: "Here it smells like sulfur. ( Some applause.) President, Councillors, Councillors..., President, you presented us today to your Government and we want to begin, first of all, by making a reminder and a claim of the investment agreement that gave little to your investiture as President and the leader of this legislature. I haven't made a summary, very short. First, turn to the left, clearly a turn to the left: reinforcement of public services; public recovery of externalised services; public recovery of concerted and privatized services when they are of general interest; public recovery of strategic infrastructures and common benefits; a public energy; redistribution of wealth with a functional tool such as universal basic income; right to housing and stop denominations; guarantee the universal right of basic sub-governments; a model of security and public order that respects and promotes civil and political rights and rights to demonstration and protest; protection of the territory before extractivism; fights against the climate change and the transition of society to a peaceful economy, to a peaceful economy, to a peaceful economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy, to a global economy to a global economy to a global economy, to a global economy to a global economy, to a sustainable Also the creation of a public bank. That's the turn left. And second place, independence. Self-determination and amnesty as fundamental objectives in this legislature. Parliament's sobirania in defence of the rights without the Constitutional Court following a limit. And exercise self-determination, I subratlo, in this legislature. These are, in short, the objectives that your Government must prioritise and fulfil if it wants to be faithful and loyal to its commitments in which it was the investment that it gave to its solitaire of the Presidency of the Generality, developing all the necessary measures and actions to make them effective. And all the while, president, let's give him a thought or a consideration. You always say you want to rule for everyone. We tell him this isn't possible, it's impossible to rule for everyone. Do you want to rule for the right to housing or for real estate speculation? You want to rescue banks or people? Do you want to govern for extractivism and destruction of the territory or for the fight against climate change and for an ecofeminist transition? Do you want to rule on the side of racism and fascism or effectively on the side of anti-physism? The masculinism and homophobia or the struggle against patriarchy? Do you want to govern the cost of redistribution of wealth or the wealth of the richest and the increase of inequalities? Do you want to govern by giving support to capital or to the struggle against job insecurity? Because I'm already telling you that it's incompatible, absolutely incompatible; if not, I look at decades of capital development, not just at our home but at a global scale, and I look at the situation of the working class in our country and at what the trends are. Do you serve public or private business with the basic needs of the population? Did the productive economy or the speculative economy finance it? Civil and political rights or repression? There are just a few examples that show that a government – neither its own nor its head – cannot rule for everyone; it has to be sorted, it has to be sorted from which side it is, in which side it is worked and fought. And you will have to sort – you will have to sort. We understand and want to believe, we hope and wish that, indeed, if not part of these objectives, you have already done so. And it will take your left hand to know that your right hand does. We know where we stand, we know clearly what position we hold. And do you take care of your government, do you know clearly what it is about these possible controversies? Obviously, let's wait and hope so, that's what it is. Also, taking into account the composition of your government, some of its profiles and the trajectories that precede them, we can ask ourselves if you have made any things clear to your advisors and advisors. If they've spoken, if they've kept talking and you've made some questions clear. I'm starting with Counselor Giró. Did you, President, make it clear to Councilman Giró that this is a public service promotion legislature? , the internalization of private or concerted services when it comes to services, common good and general interest? , what are reversions of what have been past privatization processes such as sanitation or education, strategic infrastructure..., what can be done to municipalize water? We understand that he has made it clear, because he has indicated this in his speech, that he wants to create a public bank, but also – and this also has to do with Councillor Jordà's office – the creation of a public energy. Also a public housing policy, a clear promotion of a large public housing park, which is ultimately the main solution to the problem we have in this country with regard to housing, and which can also universally guarantee basic deputy ministers to all people in our country. To Mr. Puignero, we also hope that he has not spoken, and that he has made it clear that, effectively, it is necessary to promote the right to housing over housing as well as merchandise. And this happens, inevitably, we have already commented on before, for the creation and promotion of a great public habitation, but also to put a stop to the denudations, to expropriate the empty habitats to the facets, to the great tenors, to the great real estate sectors that keep them empty, precisely, to speculate with a fundamental right such as that of the habitation, and that will also need to regulate the loggers. Certainly, I suppose you have made it clear, with Councilwoman Ciuro, that there are no more express charges there. I understand that they have made it clear, that they have made this principle and this subject clear. To Councilman Elena, obviously, the compromise with a new model of security and public order, the moratorium on the use of projectiles..., I guess that's what they talked about and we'll see soon its effects and its results. I suppose we will also see very soon the withdrawal of Brimo and ARRO in the execution of denunciations in vulnerable families, that we will see the withdrawal of particular accusations on the part of the Generality, that – if not, on our part, follow Jordi Cuixart in that maximum that he has recently pronounced, that it is necessary to replenish streets and squares – I suppose it is clear that we do not want a public order model like that of late 2019 to the airport or to the streets or in the much more recent mobilizations in defense of Pablo Hasel. I assume that Councillor Jordan has effectively clarified that a moratorium on energy installations should be placed on a new model, effectively, for the promotion of renewables, democracy, decentralisation and with care of the territory and public energy. I can't remember, we know that..., we know that Councilwoman Vilagrà clearly has the priority of universal basic income as a basic instrument of redistribution of wealth. To Councillor Cambray, I suppose it has become clear that it is necessary to rescue vocational training, to encourage and increase resources in public vocational training, to lower rates to fight against segregation, as well as to disconcerting the school system to promote the public system, the only tool to guarantee the fight against segregation. And that, of course, would guarantee a free, public network from zero to three years up to college – she will advise Geis, which also affects you. And to Councillor Argimon, I assume that when they have followed the table and started talking they have made it clear that a process of depriving public health, that we do not want the model of "socio-vergency". We don't want him, that model. We need to change to a model that promotes public ownership of health services, foster primary care and recover public ownership of 061 and health transport. And to go through with it. We also imagine that you, when you have made sure to speak at the time of forming the government, know that in this legislature you will need to exercise self-determination. I suppose they are aware of this absolutely priority objective, that in the absence of a state that wants to agree on amnesty and referral, these institutions, including the Government, will guarantee the exercise without the state and repression in the aftermath of a limit. And, finally, with the investment agreement, president, we were going to give ourselves a rope, a rope that can actually propagate us if his government is faithful to these reptes and these objectives, or that can be strained if his government does not assume them or act on them. We will cooperate with you if your Government follows the path granted, even assuming major responsibilities if we certainly advance in the compliment of these objectives and face a sovereign legislature in defense and the guarantee of the rights and exercise of self-determination. More extensive, let us give it to you, President, and to your Government, if it is effectively placed at the service of the social and economic rights of the people and independence of this country. Puny locked up and claudiate or act contrary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.163.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. The words "Jessica Albiach", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pomão, are followed by the words "Jessica Albiach".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.164.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to all of you again. Counselors, advisors, the first thing I wanted to do, like I did before the question, was to welcome them and wish them luck and uncertainty – we already told the president, and now we're also doing it with the government – because their fate and their uncertainties will be the ones throughout the country. Some of us know each other, some of us don't know each other. Yes, I can tell you that, on the part of In Comú Pode, when we talk, there are times when we like it better, sometimes we like it less, but we always go face to face, we always tell the truth; go, we don't lie, we tell what we think. We never have a profile when it comes to helping people improve their lives. And we're also clear that we want to make politics useful, and this is kind of our little presentation for those who don't know us. That said, now we have a government, after many months of functioning government, after three months of negotiations where people weren't really understanding what was going on, and now it's time to get to work without any further delay. You know this isn't the government we wanted. In fact, I am convinced that it is not the government that wants a majority of Catalans and Catalans, but it is already done, we have government and, therefore, we have to look to the future and we have to see how we all come out of this situation to the decadence where we were immersed. I want to recognize positively..., we value the creation of the new council of Feminisms and Equality and the incorporation of the councillor Tània Verge. The truth is, we expect to work very and very well with her. Exactly three years ago, when we were at President Torra's Government's presentation, we already wanted to recriminate him at his time that he did not create this commission, so now that we have it, we celebrate it and we hope to be able to work on it from our hands. In the same way, we consider that it is also good news that the proper government is formed for the first time by more women than men. Now, we also want to say, there are no advices that are key: we have a president, a vice president, a man in charge of Economy, a man in charge of Health, a man in charge of Education, a man in charge of Interior. It's not that I don't want men to be, but they'll have to recognize me that you're advising on a higher level and a higher level of assumption are still in the hands of men. Therefore, we have to say here that gambling is not just a matter of having more women or 50 per cent of women and men, but also of political capacity and decision making. And from here I'm sure I won't be so complacent. We always say that because things work out the head and the color has to go in line, the words and the facts have to go in line, because, besides, the speeches bear everything. I believe that if we know anything about this country, it is that the speeches bear everything, and, in fact, we have had governments that would say that, strictly speaking, they have endured the speeches they have made, but after the reality is coughed up and it has been too long since the speech and the reality go hand in hand in this country. President, you talk about social justice, but you give the key to the box to one of the highest exponents of market capitalism in our country. In terms of housing, there is no clear ambivalence in talking about accumulating denunciations as Justice's advice to one of the main promoters of the law of express denunciations is lifted. In the matter of health, we want to recognize the expert, the ability to manage and also the ability to do pedagogy, which I think is very important, of Mr. Argimon. Now, beyond that, we do want to move forward in reviving privatizations and starting internalizing you serve and seeing how this public-private collaboration that Junts' list leader spoke about during the election debates, Mrs. Laura Borràs, will fit, because we believe that with salvation, with life, there can be no negotiation and no one can fill the pockets at the cost of our lives. Therefore, I must convey to you that this concerns us. And it goes exactly the same with the issue of residences: with the essential benefits, with basic things there can be no negotiations. More fears: as we went green, we do not understand, I have already said more than once, that climate policies and infrastructure are separate; they do not think together. Facing the climate emergency is not a discursive issue, it must be the pale of all the policies that are being done in this government in a cross-cutting way. We can't talk about fighting the climate emergency and not setting ambitious targets in reducing CO2 emissions, for example, we could get to a reduction of 65_per_cent in 2030, or that projects like Hard Rock are being maintained, like the Terramar highway, like the extension of the C-32 between Blanes and Lloret... We think that they are models, they are projects that answer more, therefore, to ancient visions, to the logic of functioning that they have nothing to do with the crisis situation that we have now; they do not answer to innovation, modernity or sustainability. I understand perfectly... or we understand that green policies are sometimes not easy to set in motion. There are resistances, there are interests, there are lobbyists, there are campaigns of contempt. Patim, we live them, we see them. We see it many times at the Barcelona Assembly, but also the companies, for example, who are ruling Lleida, also suffer. Now, I think it's precisely at these times, at these difficult times, when coherence is demonstrated, when conviction is demonstrated, when it is demonstrated whether we believe it or not. Why, if not, what are we talking about? We're talking about greenwashing, we're talking about speeches that, like I said before, can handle everything. And in short, if we do not now launch green policies that remain ambitious, we will not have a future. It's not a question anymore... it's also a question of generating quality occupation, it's a question of salvation, it's a question of the future. That's what we're talking about. And it's also an economic issue, which doesn't go unnoticed. And I want to talk about a topic that came out today, which has been talked about a lot, and I think we need to talk about it even more, which is the Barcelona airport and its expansion proposal, the Prat airport. We want to know, President, where the Government of the Generality will be located. It wasn't clear to us. He had an opportunity to tell us where the government was going and he didn't make it clear to us at the control session. We still don't know what his position will be. We want to know whether they will be with those who are planning a project that goes against the criteria of Europe or the 2030 Agenda or with those who are planning this investment, so it has to be used to combat the lack of infrastructure that we have with the country, but it has to be done without cutting the territory. We celebrate this announcement of the creation of a table of debate, of work, between different administrations, but to lead is to make a proposal. They can't just go listening. They have to go with a proposal ahead, and this proposal we want to know if they are more responsive to a vision of the nine years of the past century or if they are putting in place an economic and infrastructure model that follows the 21st century. I insist, because in the end ‘leading' means making a proposal. We may or may not be mistaken, but they have a proposal. And more with the topic of the airport there is much to see: language is perverse, and here it is a matter of dispelling reality. There seems to be a debate between those who want to make progress and those who do not. Man, is there anyone in this country who doesn't want any progress? It's not that, it's not those who want the economy to go well and others who want a poor country. This is not the debate, it is not the debate between those who want to generate occupation and those who want a country full of fruit trees. Of course that's not the debate. The debate is that the green one has to be what makes us compatible between arriving at the end of the month and taking care of and protecting the planet, between generating places of occupation and generating places of work that have future or are only looking to the short term. The green wave is no use for greenwashing. This is not transformation, this is not change; the green one is a way of seeing and hearing the world, where the economy is in the service of life. And we also need to think: we want to follow a sunny country, which is dependent on and vulnerable to the shocks that are left to the rest of the world and to the rest of Europe, or we want to change the product model and think that we need to connect the three major airports we have in Catalonia, that we need to improve this connectivity, that we need better trains? This is the debate. This is simply the debate, and not this absurd dichotomy – and, moreover, it is not certain – between some who are supposed to want prosperity and others who are supposed to want a poor country. That's not it. And, as I'm saying, they're debates where the government can't profile. They cannot be stored after other administrations. You say, "Well, we don't know what the central government thinks. I don't care what the central government thinks; I don't care, I'll ask. And, in fact, we'll ask you a lot of questions. But I do want to know what the Generality thinks. I'm moving on. This government doesn't trust us. You know, there are some proposals that do not correspond with the profiles or with the advisors that have been chosen; we do not just make it clear whether these great transformations will be exclusively discursive or not; we do not know whether they will end up working well, different from what they did in previous years; where the energies will be laid; whether we will have a fair taxation or not, because in the end Mr. Turned neither has made it clear to us. There's a lot of trouble. In fact, we don't even know how long this government will last, because in two years, what we do know is that there is a question of trust. Nor do we know, Mr Aragonès, president, if you will finally call this table of previous matches to the table of the dialog. All Ways [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and it's over, immediately, President–, arriving at this point, we ask for courage to carry out these great transformations of which you speak and which – I must confess – we look at...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.165.0	He's finished his turn, Mrs. Albiach...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.166.0	... with skepticism– a_second. We only ask him to tell us and to show us that we are wrong in this mistrust that we have the government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.167.0	Mrs. Albiach, I'm done, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.168.0	...and also, and lastly, think of how they want to be remembered and remembered. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.169.0	Next is the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.170.0	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the Government, and ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Generalitat, I entered this Parliament in 2012, and the truth is that I can already say that I have seen more things that you could not believe than that replicator of the movie Blade Runner. Look, you're the fourth president I see here in less than ten years presenting a new government. I'm sure you'll understand that I'll tell you that each one of them, embracing the breakup as a model of coexistence, has generated much more distrust and concern in a large part of Catalans than confidence and illusion. And so I was here when in October 2012, with an Artur Mas who, after only two years of ruling, had called elections, promised Ithaca and his own state. And I remember that on January 23, 2013, in your speech of presentation of the Government, as you did here today, the speech of presentation of the Government, which was supposed to be the « Government of the betters, said: « Third great repte: l'exercici del Dret to decide the future of Catalonia. This is a big part of the legislature. That said, that government barely lasted three more years, it had already been two Mr. Mas, and it was in that five-year period that the wildest cuts took place, still not entirely reversed in health or education, and a public debt unleashed, apart from a mythical corruption that led Convergence to disappear and to be condemned to the millionaire compensations in the Palau case. But, well, it's also true that what those frustrations matter if More what he did, his great legacy, was that consultation in 2014 that led him to be condemned for disobedience and having to personally pay the costs of the « botifarréndum that they had paid among all Catalans. And as the ancient Egyptian people saw Pharaohs succeed, so I saw Puigdemont arrive in 2016. On January 20 of that year he said in his Government's presentation: "A government that will work in two large carpets. Make sure that Mr. Mas, for him, was "the third great challenge, and here are" the second great dossier, which is the design and execution of all the work of the process that must place us at the gates of the new State, a state that we want independent, in the form of a republic. And then he was talking about "the structures of state, from his inn to point – that nothing was done that, of course – "processing and pushing the projects of law related to all this, the full internationalization of the process, etc.. Several of the members of that government were condemned for the 2017 coup to democracy; Puigdemont ended up in the trunk of a car fleeing to Brussels. And in 2018 the mythical long list of the presidents of the Generalitat was enlarged with one more member, who was Mr.Totra, who had already been proclaiming that he did not come to manage an autonomy, and already directly neither « third great repte nor « second folder, but directly« this is the government that came to make out of the institutions on 155, said in his speech of presentation of the Government, « Catalan constitution project, obey the mandate of the First of October, etc.. And now in 2021 this long march towards Ithaca continues with them, essentially separatist proclamations that leave out more than half of the Catalan population. You did not speak today of the 'third great repte or' of the second great folder; you spoke today of four great axes. This time it is a great axis, and the process is in the fourth; there is «social, feminist, green and green process» the process is in fourth place of priorities, which in the end always become one; as the commandments of God's law are summed up in one, for the commandments of the separatist governments in the end are summed up in one, which is « you will worship the process above all things. Do you not realize, Mr. Aragonès, that you follow the same path as your predecessors? Is it not necessary to remind you how your predecessors ended up with these priorities at the start of governments? Mr. Artur Mas ended up convicted of disobedience and facing millionaire economic responsibilities; Puigdemont, escaped; Torra, disabled and also convicted of disobedience. And now we have you, Mr. Aragonès, and you've rolled in on your boat, as you did on the great dangerous sea voyages of the middle and modern ages, to a crew that seems to have nothing to lose, that already some of them have problems with justice and are winding up as adventurers in the boat of the process heading towards Ithaca. If you think this is going to be a way of roses, I think... wake up, because it's not going to be; it hasn't been in the three previous governments. Mrs. Victòria Alsina, Mr. Aragonès talks about a referendum on self-determination; do not listen to him: the fact of organizing the electoral processes from the Government of Catalonia does not empower him to make illegal referendums, I remind him. Just as the Court of Auditors is saying that the foreign action of the Generalitat is going to claim the money that previous governments had spent on doing illegal actions and promoting the process. Mr. González Cambray... He's gone. Mr González Cambray..., the courts also require classes in the majority language of Catalans; I would say to him: « Pay attention; pay attention to the courts, do not pay attention to their exclusionary ideologies. Look, we've had to criminally denounce several of the members of the previous governments, and our complaint to Mr. Torra cost him his disqualification, and other investigative procedures continue. You come, like the previous presidents, Mr Aragonès, announcing plans that break the seams of our democratic state. And you know, and your advisors know, that Ciutadans will ensure that you do not believe above the laws and comply with them as any other citizen. And I will tell you something else, which you, in these situations, love to say: "Ciutadans threatens! Citizens are threatening! No, no; the only thing we tell you is that you do not threaten us with breaking our framework of coexistence, and that, if you perpetrate your threat of breaking the framework of coexistence and believing yourself above the laws, you, who govern, we will defend ourselves by asking that the laws be applied and that you comply with the laws as governing members of a government that you are. You are not above the law, as no other citizen is, and neither are you. I believe that this, although it is necessary to remember in Catalonia, is a democratic norm. Therefore, I also tell you that Ciutadans feels this responsibility above all because we have in charge of the Government of Spain a president who is willing to settle in everything so as to keep himself a few more months in the Moncloa. And we feel responsible. Just as we had to stop Mr. Torra's feet when he was making a propagandistic use of the buildings of the Generalitat, and partial, and in full election campaign, and we had to denounce it for that, and the Government of Spain did not do it, we did it, and that cost him the disqualification, because we... I'm just commenting on this. And then I also tell you, Mr Aragonès, that, as the peaceful coexistence, prosperity and stability guaranteed by the Constitution are once again in danger in Catalonia, we, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, require you to clarify whether you are going to jump the legality this time also with your anti-democratic struggle. And answer us 'yes or 'no; in the reply tell us, please. I have already announced to you that, if you answer with evasive or if you do not, we will ask the Government of Spain to ask you to say whether or not you are going to comply with your threat, and therefore to act with all force. Look, Catalonia, with all this project, has gone from bad to worse; we have gone worse in debt, in investments, in the flight of companies, in the data of occupation, in the people on waiting list. We will plant face, as we have been doing in everything, in every totalitarian temptation, and without giving them a day of truce. But I also tell you that we – and I want to tell you this – will be working together and making a loyal opposition for everything that is fighting unemployment, improving the economy, health, dependence, waiting lists, for everything that affects all Catalans and not just their parish. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.171.0	Then there is the words of Mr.Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.172.0	Thank you very much, President. In the past investiture debate, you accused me, Mr. Aragones, of making cartoons, or holding the tendency to make cartoons, which is partly true – it is also true that I am often very easy to do so. But it was oblivious to answer a catháleg, a decáleg, lacks, very concrete, which I planted. And, in fact, when he tried to answer at some point, he did it, you see, with caricatures– that if Madrid, that the bars–, which, of course, he did again today at the control session, caricatures before very concrete questions that, I insist, I will refer to. Today, after his intervention, some of the key questions that I raised at the investiture session remain unanswered. And I will not repeat the decáleg, but seven additional points, which I imagine are not pleasant for you but are very important to remember. And that you answer in a concrete way, because they can very negatively affect the action of government, which you have asked in an idyllic way, but which has not gone into some questions that, by the way, your governing partners remember here every day, in the communication media and in any public forum. First question, Waterloo and Consell paper for the Republic. The question is very concrete. Mr. Aragonès, Mr. Carles Puigdemont for you is the legitimate president of Catalonia, yes or no? If I can answer the question. And if so, what concrete attributions does it have in this government? Second question. The Consell per la República is an instrument of its Government, yes or no? And in the concrete case stated, what attributes between the most concrete map reserves it. Why am I telling you this? So why was the government agreement that Torra invested, which was, I must say, a document that was still more hallucinogenic than the one that you signed the other day, it did have as a virtue, and it was that it made these questions very clear, it made them very clear. Well, it's true that after all the points they put there, so they were able to implement, because it was obvious that they could not implement, because the vast majority were illegal or directly impossible. But at least they were clear. I am saying this because now, and in your speeches, these questions are left in a few words that you have raised with informal coordination mechanisms, and even with co-existences and things that seem to be lacking in transparency. And you've been filling your mouth with transparency for a long time, and you have the opportunity to prove it now. Answer these two very concrete questions. It's very easy, and it's more likely he can flatter everything he wants. Second question, self-determination and amnesty, which we also referred to in the investiture. I will not insist on the same ideas, but on one: whose majority have you, not only in the Congress of Deputies but in the European Parliament, given the repeated, recurring votes that have taken place on matters? Because insisting on a fiction that doesn't have any kind of support right now for the European Union can end up once more with frustration and exhaustion of Catalan society. And I think after eight years, it's good to exhaust and frustrate Catalan society. The third question is the role of the Squadron Mosses. It's been well explained before. How is the worrying point of agreement with the CUP concrete? Today, at the control session, a number of Members have tried to fly whether or not Mr. Elena made a statement. Beyond statements full of goodness, he didn't do it. And then you didn't do it either. He also made some philosophical references to the security models, but at the time of truth to the things that concern the Mossos, and that they are posing by writing, you didn't mention it. And they're worried. And I know, because they've moved him, too. They are concerned about the concrete protocols. And how it will affect your ability to secure public order. And I'd love for that to come to fruition. Fourth, economic recovery. Beyond good desires, which he has also expressed, how he will get along, because he has not been able to realize absolutely anything in matters such as emerging from the crisis in the oci, culture, restoration. He has made a sustained defense of culture – very good, very good – but then these people have to eat. And beyond what you've said now, so I don't think you've come out with much hope or much satisfaction, do you? Because we have to have one thing in mind: without economic dynamism there is no financing of what you have defined as social rescue. Impossible. And that, as much as I'm talking about Madrid and Madrid, this can't be solved. It needs economic dynamism, here, in Catalonia. Five, live together and respect between Catalans. You have appointed Mr. Puignero Vice-President, who has often referred to social networks..., but he has consistently referred to Spain as "Spanish to social networks, or he has arrived one day and all that a medal, I quote textually, was that which differentiated a Spaniard from a Mongol. Okay. Fi. What I'm saying is that you have an opportunity here today, first, to disallow these expressions. And the Lord will, too, with all respect, some day have to rectify and apologize, because I believe that a political leader, if he commits a wrong of these characteristics that affects respect between Catalans..., is absolutely nothing if he apologizes to you. I think it's something that even honors the whole thing. Six, the governance structure. You have made special emphasis on feminisms. To be, a plural that denotes a certain ideological biaix, that is not all transversal nor, at all, in the whole left. And to me in particular, so, and to a lot of people, this ideological bias makes things that we can easily agree on... it's practically impossible. As we are also very concerned that it is talking about these things, which seems good to me, but that at the time of truth it is oblivious, and in every speech it passes, of the families and of the great people, which, certainly, historically, in the action of the government of Catalonia many years ago had been fundamental axes of this. And, finally, I wanted to finish the intervention... because, of course, there was no second reply in the control session, was there? And you've done... besides, you've been sitting there, hoping, haven't you? In his reply, but he said some lies, it's to say... Let's see: the ICO and the Catalan Institute of Finance have nothing to do with the model of public banking that you have agreed with the CUP, as Mr Carles Riera has dedicated himself to reminding him in his intervention. That is to say, in fact, so much so that what you are doing is referring from up to down the Catalan Institute of Finance to turn it into something quite different from what it is now. Therefore, do not manipulate; it is not the ICO that you want to do. It has nothing to do with the model that the CUP has of public banking..., which you have quoted as European instruments, effectively, of credit– of credit–, but it is not the concept of public banking that the CUP has. So it won't happen so much in your answers, especially when you're lying, will it? , because he says..., he finally said a truth: nationalism is a life-saving cure. All right, all right, look at that. Any nationalism. You don't have to put labels on it. But lying repeatedly has a more complicated cure. And then he's getting used to it, he's grabbing it, so... he's coming up, they say, right? So I ask him less lies, less manipulation in his answers, more concrete and more rigorous, and I think he has the opportunity to answer these questions, very concrete, which, I insist, affect or leave behind everything he has explained before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.173.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word "Mr Albert Batet".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.174.0	Very good morning to everyone, all of them. Many honourable Speaker of Parliament, many honourable Speaker of the Government of Catalonia, members of the Government, councillors, councillors, deputies and deputies, to begin with we want to give, from Junts per Catalunya, the welcome to our councillors and councillors – welcome to the Parliament of Catalonia –, especially to the members of the Government Aragonès-Pugneró who for the first time attend this House of Parliament in this chamber. Follow welcome and welcome to the chamber where the national sovereignty of the people of Catalonia is right. They honour the commitment to serve the country at a time of extreme difficulty, because they are near to lead the country in the face of a health, economic and social crisis without precedent; to make courageous and solvent decisions to help the Catalans and the Catalans who suffer, but above all to lay the foundations for the future of our country. That is why they are also close to leading and they are in charge of leading the way to the Catalan Republic; of completing with the will of 52_percent of votes that they took and bet for the independence of Catalonia on February 14; of building Catalonia of progress, of welfare, of freedom that most Catalans want and of Catalans. We said this to the investiture debate: this is the legislature of 'let us recover and 'let us prepare; of 'let us recover from the effects caused by the pandemic and of 'let us prepare to move forward towards the Catalan Republic. We know now more than ever that the government has to help people, families who have difficulties in basic needs, young people who want to emancipate themselves and cannot, workers who have lost their jobs or entrepreneurs who are struggling to push their business forward. We know that urgent and effective responses are needed to accelerate economic recovery and ensure the state of well-being. And now we have the certainty that the Aragonese-Pugneró Government will govern for everyone and for the whole country; that it will be on the side of the great cities, but also on the side of the smaller communities and towns, and that it will be on the side of the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans, who vote, think what they think, without exclusions and without forgetting anyone. Because this is a fundamental essence of the tradition of political Catalanism; a political Catalanism which has also always been characterized as an engine of transformation, and which will continue to be a part of this Government, in economic, social, cultural, democratic, climate, migration, digital, equality, innovation and governance, a government which will have to lower these transformations, which will only be possible with the initiative and modernizing action of the Catalan society. We understand that the administrations have the obligation to create the ideals and without going through to bring out the potentialities of the country. Now, we must be aware, as always, that it will not be possible to bring forward this transformative agenda in its fullness in the Spanish State, because it does not respect our sovereignty. And we can see the amount of laws that this Parliament of Catalonia has made and that have been suspected by the Government of the Spanish State, whether it be the People's Party or the Socialist Party. It is a government, that of the Spanish State, that escapes our self-government limiting the competitions, and surely every councillor in its sphere has some competence in which the Spanish State wants to limit its competitions, because it does not allow us to legislate on infinity of issues, because it does not allow us to manage the resources generated by Catalans and Catalans, which this country generates, with an endemic, chronic fiscal deficit, that we have to deal with. And also because we needed our language and put through the social use of català. It is a fact that we must remember, that we must denounce and that we will not tire of doing it from Junts for Catalonia, because the Spanish State neither does nor lets do it. It limits our aspirations and our future. For this reason, today, political Catalanism is mostly independent. This is how election is expressed, that independence has always been increasing its percentage, and in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia it took 52_percent of votes, on February 14. And, in this sense, the Government will have to compliment the majority, without doubt, of Catalans and Catalans in order to become a free country. This is the government that has to lead the post-pandemic Catalonia and the government of 52_per_cent towards the Catalan Republic. We know that this is the compromise of President Aragonès, as expressed at the investiture debate. We know that it's also a guarantee for Vice President Puignero, for all members of this government's advisors and advisors. A renewed government, reordered by the partners. A government renewed with energy and ambition, to work with the service of the country and its people, with profiles that have a professional path of recognition prestige, such as the advisors Argimon, Giró, Alsina or Geis. Therefore, a government that combines the expert with sufficient knowledge and political experience; a reordered government, as presented by President Aragonès, with departments of new creation, according to the priorities and needs of the country, with the creation of departments of Research and Universities, Feminisms and Equality or Climate Action, but also raising digital policies to the vice-presidency; a parity government, with eight councillors and six councillors, a fact that demonstrates the will to achieve gender equality, a question that makes sense of impregnating government policies throughout the legislature. It is clear that the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia is on the side of the Aragonese-Pugneró Government, on the side of all the Councillors and Councillors, because it is not the time of the parties; it is the time of the country, and the times we have to go forward are timeless and we can only take them with respect, trust and loyalty. In the last few years, we have proven that we are only moving forward from the unit, that we must consider ourselves allies. What is possible is a shared responsibility. From Juntes per Catalunya we commit ourselves to it, but respect, trust and loyalty must also go hand in hand with rigour, determination and courage. It will be up to us to make difficult and complex decisions, which will mark the direction of the country during the next decades, which will condition future generations and which will also guide us to complete the freedom of Catalonia. We have a committed country, which expressed it clearly at the polls, and we have a determined government to raise the country and build the Catalan Republic. Make it possible, make it together. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.175.0	The words "Mrs Meritxell Serret", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.176.0	Hello, very good morning. Thank you, President. Many honorable President Aragonès, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, I also have to say that today is a very special day, for many reasons, but today is a very special day to give welcome and happiness and praise to the new government team, and that today the President has presented us with all the deployment of the new structure and our great reps. Allow me to say, moreover, that it is also a day to feel, that we are left-wing republicans, proud and deluded and more compromised than ever in this project and yearning we share, that it is nothing other than working on the people's side to build this country better, more sustainable, more socially, environmentally, economically and territorially. And to make this society fairer where the republican values of freedom, equality and fraternity prevail. And, as always, putting the institutions in the service of the people, especially in the current context of social rescue and reconstruction, and which must also help us to advance in this project of construction of the Catalan Republic that we very much want and that we are aware that without independence we will not be able to fully complete all these transformations that the country faces. And, in addition, it can be done with a presidency – I want to insist on it again – republican, who connects with that republican generality that eighty years ago was overthrown by the fascist weapons that were also murdered by President Companies and that we have recovered the Parliament winning in the polls and with all the legitimacy that this entails. We are here to say loud and clear that we are democrats, republicans for everything, and that if we are behind history is that after violence and por, after silence and oblivion, abuse of legality and impunity, democracy always renews and wins, because repression does not yet and will not cause us to shatter our republican vocation and our independent and leftist project. We're here to do politics with everyone and for the common good. In part, today is also a special day for me, because it's the first time I speak again as the MP in this Parliament, celebrating it, with this welcome to the new government. And I do that too..., and I want to remember that I was also a member..., today I have to remember that I was a member of that government that was terminated by Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, in an application that we have repeatedly denounced as disproportionate and unfair, and that was also a key step in the general case against independence and in this strategy of repression that seeks to eliminate political dissent. In this sense, I want and allow me to make a sense and also claim record to all the companies and companies of that Government, and especially to those who are today in prison, exile, or who suffer the harsh and unjust consequences: the Carls, the Oriol, the Raül, the Jordi, the Quim, the Pain, the Josep, the Toni, the Clara, the Lluís, also the Meritxell, the Carls, the Santi, as well as remembering the Carmel, the Marta, the Year, the Jordi and all the rest of the companies and companies that are now facing different causes for having formed part of that Government or having supported it, and that some are here and there. [[Greetings.]] President Aragones presented us today with the new republican government, with a department structure that shapes the agreements that we have established with Esquerra Republicana together for Catalonia and with the CUP, and which also responds to the great commitments made by Esquerra in the past elections with citizens or elections. I would also like to recall that they gave an increase in support of independence and a clear bet for left-wing forces and that is reflected in this Parliament. In fact, we have this majority of seventy-four deputies who give strength to the leadership of President Aragonès in the face of this republican government of left and independence, and which is not oximonious, is a reality. It is up to you to make an explicit thank you and also to congratulate the companies and companies that have, during the last few months, worked hard, and that, despite all the difficulties, have been able to build up these agreements and to lay the foundations of trust that have forged this solid majority and made possible this independentist and progressive government that you are taking up in this Parliament. From the Republican Left Parliamentary Group we commit ourselves to work every day to strengthen this majority and expand it as far as possible. That's why we're on the side of the government, and we're also working with joy, because all the goals that we've set for each other are real, and they're stable, and they're helping to respond to the urgent challenges facing Catalan society. The president has moved us from the transformative vocation of this government, which is indispensable to face the great challenges in a re-elected way and to become this country for which many of us are working every day: the European Republic that is ready and cohesive that we want Catalonia to be. In Esquerra we have made our government's commitment to push a new Republican Generality under progressive, feminist, green and radically democratic flags. A government that must rebuild, after this pandemic and socio-economic crisis, an eminently social government that must give all the support to the welfare of the citizenry and a government that must also lead this democratic solution to the political conflict, that must and must always be based on respect for the democratic principles, and that must also pass in order to disrupt the conflict with amnesty and to allow citizenship to decide freely on the country's future policy with the right of self-determination. This new government must be able to meet the maximum objective we have: to help people in an extremely difficult context and to do so with more and better tools, so that no one is left behind. With the creation of the Department of Equality and Feminism, Research and Universities, Climate Action and Rural Agenda, we can strengthen individual and collective rights in favour of a more just and equal society, reaffirm the resilience of the country and the welfare of the people, achieve that the objectives of sustainable development are synonymous with prosperity and equity within the country – and here, Counsellor Jordan, she will always serve her. With the Department of Digital Policies and Territories also advance in this digital transformation. With the union of the departments of Enterprise and Work make a much more resilient future product system with the work worthy of the citizenry. Renewing the Social Rights Department, too, we're moving forward on improving the whole system of cures and being on the side of people's welfare. And, above all, with a strengthened department of presidency, we can also ensure maximum coordination between departments and universal public services and for everyone. In all these great transformations, we believe, and we want to be on the side of the Government in all that is this action that must be urgent and necessary now and that passes to continue with the vaccination, in order to get these Next Generation funds to really agree with what we have agreed here in Catalonia; to deploy this social rescue and support plan to businesses; to achieve this free education from zero to three years; to make this plan of shock against the youth's future and to advance in the – which has already been announced – integral plan of mental health and in the whole system of cures; in this new social contract that has also begun to walk in front of the housing emergency, and in this National Pact of Eco-Transition or the 2_per_cent of Culture. Also... I do not want to forget to make possible this rural agenda that must allow us to achieve territorial cohesion or to continue working to be an active and proactive partner in the European Union, also reinforcing this construction project and that the European Union remains the guarantor of human rights as it was originally. In this sense, I also want to make an important point of this pact, of this national agreement that the President has presented for amnesty and self-determination and that is open and that we will age because it is open to the participation of everyone. From the Republican Left Group we want and we will be on the side of the government, but they also work from the leiiness to push and work on all the lines and actions that we have proposed and to which we have committed ourselves. In this sense, I want to make our firm and clear vocation to build the maximum consensus, in all and every policy, to contribute and strengthen this parliamentary and social majority. Because it is consistent with our commitment to work in favour of strengthening the credibility and confidence of citizens with institutions, which goes unreservedly also to defend the value of politics and to put politics and institutions at the service of the people. Ruler for everyone, with this idea of Catalonia, which President Aragones reiterated. And because we understand and are convinced that it is the way to move forward in the great consensus of the country, that it must be possible to re-exist in the green, feminist, social and democratic transformations that must allow us to move forward on the Republican agenda and also towards amnesty and self-determination. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.177.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Serrat. Now, once the parliamentary groups have spoken, the President of the Generality can speak to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.178.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, I will make a non-extensive intervention, as many of the arguments that the parliamentary groups have put forward in the interventions at the length of this debate have already been answered to the control session and are part of some of the debates that were already present in the investiture debate and that will certainly be present throughout the whole legislature. I would like to begin by thanking the parliamentary groups of the Republican Left and the Juntes for their words, their intervention, the coincidence with the plans. We begin a stage in which from the learning, too, and from being very aware of the way used, now, therefore, we begin a stage with much more strength, with all the energy and with all the will to face, for one band, economic and social reconstruction, and, for another, continue the path towards the culmination of Catalonia's independence. With regard to the deputy Salvador Illa: I will not go in to give him..., to put labels to you on whether it is left or not. You told me to defend Catalonia's independence, I can't be left behind. In change, I suppose, to defend the independence of Spain, it can be. It's this vision of this banal nationalism that he actually gives, isn't it? The states that are born and that seem very good to you... the one that must be a Catalan state is incompatible with solidarity, but the existence of a Spanish state, no. Solidarity, the will of equity for progressive projects do not last at the border. Nor to the limits of an independent Catalonia nor to the limits of the Spanish State. So I don't label you. I won't give him books on whether he's progressive or not, we'll stick to the facts. You don't put me in. I believe that, in due course, I can demand it. Apart from the fact that we could get emboldened in a debate about how from the left, even from Catalan socialism, the debate between socialism and the concept of birth were present. I won't reproduce it. I refer to what is in the acts of this Parliament, not only since 1980, but also from 1931 to 1939. With the pseudo-opposition, in any case, we, with your parliamentary group, as with all democratic parliamentary groups, will work, build consensus, seek solutions. I ask them to be in the solution band and not to act like a project so they can solve a lot of the challenges that this country has. Not aliens, neither, of the great consensuss, that go far beyond the borders of the parties. Some of the data from the opinion study centres have been discussed before, which show that there is also great consensus to resolve the political conflict with the State where the reference is as the measure, as the preferred instrument to resolve it. Also among their electoral bases. In fact, a few years ago they were... you believe in an agreed consultation. I think, in this sense, you should not dwell on these consensuses. To the deputy of VOX. I think you don't mind the number of councillors of the Generalitat de Catalunya, you annoy the Generalitat de Catalunya. It bothers you that there are self-government institutions in the country. In fact, I remember that in the electoral campaign, in this competition of this three-headed monster that is Spanish nationalism, which will speak again in Piazza Colón, one of the leaders said to him: "Listen, however, you, who want to abolish Parliament, why does it present itself there? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Therefore, what bothers you is the existence of the Generality of Catalonia. But the Government of Catalonia is responsible for the welfare state in our country, it is responsible for the health system, it is responsible for the education system, it is responsible for the social protection system. Pensions alone are not the competence of the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, we will exercise our functions in full, all, always. And precisely, so yes, this is a feminist government, which I already see is bothering you; so as it bothers you, we won't have a problem going over it the times you need: yes, it is a feminist government. [[applause]] and it will not be demonstrated only with the existence of a councillor, but with the decisions that we will bring to an end – with the decisions that we will bring to an end. I suppose, for you, this is a..., well, it's one of these syringuites, etc. For us it is a key, cross-cutting element of the whole government. With the Popular Unity Candidate, an idea: the full route. The actions carried out by this Government are based on the governance agreements that made the investiture possible, and we are clear, we are clear about all and every member of this Government. And our will is to rule for everyone. The one who doesn't... [[Funnel veils]] Rule for everyone, for the vast majority. A few years ago, one of the slogans that was felt in the middle of the world was the need to rule for the 99_per_cent; it's practically everyone, you accept this equivalence mask. So rule for everyone. And I've said it since the first moment, I don't mind, of the independence and progressive position this government has. But with the will to generate social rights for everyone, to generate economic opportunities for all citizens, regardless of what you think. We are very clear about the privileges to be overcome, we are very clear about the unacceptable inequalities that we have to revert to our society, and we are very clear about the ideological models that many times confront, and I believe that the vast majority of Catalan society is located in this idea of more national freedom, more social progress, and, in this sense, the government is fully located in it, in which is that great consensus of Catalan society. For what it does to the intervention of In Comú Pode, I believe that many of the themes you have raised are based on a mistrust that we will overcome if it is looked objectively – if it is looked objectively. Probably, if you look at them with a lot of eyes on the game, then you'll find some excuse to continue with mistrust. But anyway, when you asked me to lead the issue of the airport debate, I think that when we demand someone else we need to look at what we do to our responsibilities. At the Barcelona Assembly, you are governed by the Socialist Party, there are two different positions. The Government of the State has not issued an official position, but we understand, for which I have been speaking, that there is neither a single position, because it is not a binary issue – yes or no –, in fact, it is not a question or just a matter of adhering to ideological principles, I believe that we all share the need to improve competitiveness and that the Barcelona airport is still feeling, and it is still more, and therefore, if it comes down to the issue of enlargement, an element of competitiveness and of increasing competitiveness of the Catalan economy. And now, this has to be compatible with biodiversity preservation. It's not easy to solve this issue. So let's go and settle it between all of us. And I think that if we recognize this complexity, so it is obvious that both the State Government and the Barcelona Assembly Government must also manage this issue, which is obviously complex. I think Ciutadans got caught in the last legislature. Mr. Carrizosa, he stayed like he caught up with the arguments, with the themes of the last legislature. It is obvious that there are many problems that continue, that there is the resolution of a political conflict that is more necessary than ever, that we want to change its parameters, of this conflict, that it is now a conflict, and become the solutions. But you're with the process mantra all day – all day – because that's where you've dedicated 80 percent of your intervention. Anyway, he also mentioned a request from the state government, I don't know if he's implying a 155. He won't find us, and we won't fall into his traps, will he? But I think it needs to be updated, we need to be updated. We have gone forward, there are better paths, there are opportunities to be made..., update 'you and prove too – not for me, eh? , for your voters– that apart from talking about the process, you can offer some products to your electorate, right? I don't know, sometimes I think that the famous "hamster of the process" is his political speech, that all day long he turned to the same, and that he has other fears about the table, so they lose interest, as the electorate has lost interest in you. And in any case, in the Mixed Group, we work for everyone. And you asked me about what measures, for example, we would take in the field of economic and social recovery. The previous Government of the Government of Catalonia for which I feel fully responsible, because it was the Vice-President, but I have..., that there are advisers who continue and we give continuity in many of the themes, it is the Government that of all the governments of autonomous communities of the State, more resources were put in place to help the productive economy during covid-19. In fact, it has laid 50_percent of the total resources. We will now continue to do so, with part of the money from the royal decree of direct aid to enterprises, which the Government of the State made, which made a year later – direct aid to enterprises – apart from the topic of ERTOS and ICOs, but direct aid took a year to do with it, the Government of the State. I'll apply that now, too. But we will continue to do this, in a context in which to accompany the sectors that are recovering their activity and in which they will be able to face the concrete transformations of the future – the National Pact for Industry, that is not an example. And in advance of the National Pact for Industry, continue the support measures, which we have very well stocked with the Business Advisor, with the Economy Advisor, in those companies that have lost billing. And continue working to provide help mechanisms to workers who are also in ERTO. That's the path. And we'll bet on the dialog and the negotiation. We have an opportunity ahead of us, and we face it honestly and honestly, and that is why we want the majority of Catalan society to accompany us, with the proposal that we have always defended, and with this we have made it clear, that the political solution to the conflict goes through an amnesty that ends with repression, and goes through the exercise of the right to self-determination, because it is the citizenry of Catalonia that decides the future. That's what we've made clear, and we'll follow it, and we'll feel, and we'll compromise. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.179.0	Next, we suspend the session. The replica return will be late, we will start at a quarter of five. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.180.0	If they were occupying their seats, past these five minutes of courtesy, we would start the session, also in attention to the deputies who have been punctual. Therefore, in this turn of reply, after the intervention of the President of the Generality, the representatives of the parliamentary groups would begin. And the words of Mr. Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.181.0	Good afternoon, Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Aragonès, very honorable president, to things; if you really esteem Catalonia, to things. Let's forget all this rhetoric about ending independence and... things, huh? I the first, airport– first, airport. Don't hide in the others; don't hide. It's true that it's a complex issue, but it doesn't hide in the others. I have to say. We are clear that we want, and Catalonia cannot give up an investment of 1,700_million euros and expand the main transport infrastructure that we have. We need to be connected. The Lord Poigned... – I don't see him now around here. Satellites, aerial connections, are key to the future. And we know that by 2031, when this infrastructure comes into operation, air transport will be well advanced. I also feel more respect for the environment. So we can't just sit around and watch this. I ask him to have a clear position, not to hide in the others. Let those who don't make it clear get clear to themselves. As for example the mayor of Barcelona. See if it's starting to clear up with itself. But neither Catalunya nor Barcelona can give up having an infrastructure that can serve 100_million passengers in 2031. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now we're 50. Yes, Mr. Cid, 100; double. Because now we're in 53. I don't know what thank you he does. Because here is the future of Catalonia, the creation of work places. And, obviously, Catalonia knows how to do good things when it gets laid. And he can do it with respect to legality. And you can do it with respect to the environment. Of course I do. What is it that they don't know how to expand five hundred meters of a track, so they can be connected to the world? Do we want to live locked up in ourselves? Therefore, to things, Mr. Aragones. And here he'll have us at his side. Not a word, and I have to say, about the assumption of enguany. And I think you've compromised... until I think it was... I'm not quite sure, but I think it was in some kind of debate of those that we're doing, electoral, that it's compromised that you at the investiture would carry a presumption. And I have no longer claimed it from the investiture; I demand that the porter to this chamber his councillor of Economy and History, and that he incorporate the major resources that must be used to deal with the deficiencies that we have in social matters. So, I'm asking you to put it black on white. And I say to him more: if you have problems – that I don't believe – with your majority, here we are. I'll tell you what. Here we are. But Catalonia needs a presupposition already, in order to be able to meet with greater resources the priorities, which, in many of them, in some of them, we agree with you and me. And some considerations, just two, to end. Look, I'm gonna follow him, because I think so, that's not... It's an oximo being progressive and being independent, from my point of view. It's an oxymoron. Because progressism is solidarity and independence is to set borders. You say, don't you? , "Borders and progressism...; indeed, it does not have to look at borders. And you, when you ask for Catalonia's independence – you have right to ask it, I also have right to say that I don't agree – it's bordering. And, therefore, for me, it's an oxymoron. And that's what I'm saying. From the labels on the left I can put as many as I want, I feel very recognizable. And if I want to be happy someday, say, "Listen, I want to be happy with Mr. Illa, so tell me that I'm a Tarradelista, and I'm happy, that I know, huh? And if you don't want to make me happy, don't tell me, huh? And it was, if I am not mistaken, Raimon Obiols, whom I admire and follow and whom I tell many from the political point of view, but above all from a point of view to mark intellectual horizons, the first, I believe, who spoke of better and worse, to use this discriminatory reference to politics: better, who want to improve things; worse, who want to take them in. You have spoken of solutions and problematizers, to me; enhancers and instigators. It's the same, the one you want. We're about to make things better. He will always find us here, to improve things; from our point of view, from our way of hearing reality, but to improve things here he will always find us. I, to improve them, the best we can do is not vote a break, but vote a deal. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.182.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Ignacio Garriga, of the VOX Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.183.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Aragonès, we do not mind the existence of the Generalitat de Catalunya, of course not; what bothers us is that you are kidnapped by people like you, who permanently despise the majority of Catalans, and unique and exclusively intended to govern towards a minority; towards a minority who permanently – and we have suffered for decades – despises that majority of Catalans who are open, plural and who want to live in freedom. And neither does it bother us that you defend feminist postulates, no; what bothers us is that you spend the money of all Catalans to encourage their ideological delusions and that their ideological delusions put them in schools to our children. That really bothers us. And in that you will find us throughout the entire legislature. You have referred in a sybilian way, but you have not answered the question. And, in fact, he wouldn't tell me, he would tell Mr. Illa. And you were commenting... or referring, rather, to the democratic parliamentary groups with which you, you said, will try to reach agreements, to reach consensus. I was saying that our political formation is not democratic. That is why it persists in not lifting that deeply undemocratic cord. I mean, you're insulting more than two hundred thousand Catalans, you're calling them non-democratic. Is that it? I should be grateful if you would clarify this at parliamentary level. Because there is no more democratic party that defends the law than VOX, who was responsible for sitting the perpetrators of the coup, his colleagues, on the bench of the accused. And we will continue to do so; we will continue to defend the freedom, coexistence and unity of all Catalans. I don't want to stop answering Mr. Riera, who said that he smelled sulphur, that they smelled sulphur more than two hundred thousand Catalans. That's what you said, isn't it? Well, I'm telling you, no, don't smell like sulfur. What you do smell like is painting, which you throw at the mossos d'ésquadra, and Molotov cocktails, which you throw at the shops, week yes and week too. [[Some applause.]] And I agree with Mr Illa that we must focus on the important, the social emergency. I told you this morning at the control session to the government. I place you from here to once and for all – to once and for all – reduce the billionaire waste of political spending that you have been leading for decades. Plant a reform, a reduction of the chiringuitos, of the councils, of the superfluous expenditure, and destiny the truth to the social emergencies that are suffering the workers and families of Catalonia, to those small and medium enterprises to which you have condemned to ruin. It has the opportunity to reduce political spending, which is what we are defending, and to devote it to the real needs of Catalans, to strengthen health, to improve primary care, to improve education and, as I said before, to end once and for all with those infamous barracks that make us national shame. And also in that line I said it a week ago in my speech..., in which you, then, were elected president: taxes yes, but for what it takes. Taxes not to finance, as I told you, those parastructures that you create, those entities in which you place your palm trees. Taxes for the essential; as I have told you, for safety, for health and for education. That's what you should worry about, and let go of, as I told you, amnesties, republics. Because the only thing that will lead you to continue to persist in your rupturist agenda and in your ideological delusions is to depart from the law. And it will be found that this political formation, as we have told you since we broke into this chamber, we are going to be relentless, we are going to defend the constitutional order, we are going to defend the Statute of autonomy and we are going to defend compliance with the Criminal Code. Therefore, I ask you... – and I know you won't listen to me, but I have the obligation to more than two hundred thousand Catalans and above all to that majority of Catalans whom you are permanently scorning – focus on the important: education, health, safety and work; work once and for all to ensure the well-being and prosperity of Catalans and to abandon once and for all their ideological delusions and their rupturist agenda. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.184.0	Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.185.0	Thank you, President. Well, president, I see we've understood... [[Pause.]] President? [[Pause.]] Thank you. I see we've understood each other. Indeed, you said that it is a compromise to govern for the majority, for the 99_per_cent, that it is different from" for everyone. There's a 1_per_cent for which he won't rule. I think I've clearly understood that, huh? But you know what's wrong with us? That this 1_per_cent later has most of the state's apparatuses; that 1_per_cent later has most of the judiciary and most of the system's instances, a great media apparatus, a great media cave. And, of course, governing for the 99_per_cent, for the most part, means having a very tough, very firm and very strong attitude ahead of this 1_per_cent. I'll give you some examples. Listen, and I'll tell Mr. Argimon, train with Railroad, already, don't expect another day. This has to be over. This Parliament, moreover, has decided on a blanket sometimes. I don't know what they're up to, yet, keeping this contract in force. Listen, I stop working with Hard Rock and the Box on a project like Barcelona World, which is a scandal from any point of view: social, economic, environmental, etc. They are escorting, repealing Decree 16/2019, which allows the energy transition to remain in the hands of Endesa and in the hands of the big monopolies. It's about decentralizing, democratizing this new cycle of economic and energy transition. Listen to me, with the great tenors, with the great real estate and with the Constitutional Court and we defend the laws that we have passed in this Parliament in defence of the right to housing, which means defending the right of people who, obviously, universally, unquestionably, have a right to housing. Let us stop collaborating with companies, oligopolises, monopolies of the 78th Regime, like AENA or so many others, which, moreover, are at that point in time the site of the rotating doors. And I would also say to Mr. Cambray, if you were here: let's break the concerts with Opus Dei's schools. What are we waiting for? Does this have a political cost? Obviously. I may have costs, but do it. This is to rule for the 99_per_cent and not for the '1_per_cent. And, look, in the time that's left, I'll tell you that – I think this is what you already know – the social and economic rights, the civil and political rights, the national rights, to which this 99_percent of the population aspires – and, for what it does to the right to self-determination, a large part of our country – you know that there is no place between the Constitution and the State; there is no place between the State and the 78 rule. That's why we're talking about independence. Because, in our country, in our social and political space, in our territories, we want to build a society that is much more upright. This is the reason why we are independent: because we want to build a political space, a social space, much more right, much more social rights, civil, economic, political, human, for everyone; rights that we know perfectly well that between the State, the Constitution and the State do not fit. That's why we're independent. Indeed, the urgency of the social and economic crisis, the emergence to which the great majority of our people pass, the threats to our territories, require, in effect, that we exploit all the potentialities of the present legal or political framework, obviously, of course, yes, but we must know that the guarantee and development of all social, civil, political and national rights require that the Constitution, the Statute and the Constitutional Court do not remain a limit, and therefore they demand to exercise self-determination in order to achieve independence and free us from the monarchy and the rule of 78. That's why I said it one day and I'm going to repeat it again now – we need unsubmitted institutions – unsubmitted – as was much of the population of this country the U of October, as are feminists, as are anti-faixists, as are the people fighting for their place of work or against a denunciation. I may be on the side of this insubmission. We need unsubmissive institutions in the face of justice and inequality, and we need obedience in the face of the social rights and the national rights that our country demands, and for which it can no longer wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.186.0	Thank you very much. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.187.0	Thank you, President. President, you know that we think that his government – in the words of Mr Batet, the Aragonese-Pugnero Government, as he called it today; we believe that it is the government of resignation – is a government that is thought for a previous stage, that is thought for another time, that it is a government that is not old – it is not old – it is not a government of hope, it is not a government of illusion, and it is not thought for a stage of dialogue and solutions, that is not thought for a new stage. It's a government of yesterday, not a government of tomorrow, not a government of the future; it's a government thought of yesterday. And you can't ask us that we have an illusion in this government, too, when you don't even have an illusion in this government, because you were thinking or talking before "no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I say, "Well, if it's you; if it's Republican Left who with the Republican Left party eyes is suspiciously looking at this government between Republican Left and Juntes for Catalonia. I'm telling you, we just need to look at what you're doing in public. No, no pateixi, we won't say anything about 'nshagi explaining himself in private, will we? ;it's better according to which things, so shut them up and don't explain them. But in any case, it is you who spoke suspiciously of this government between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana. And, look, that we overcome the mistrust in this government on our part will depend on the facts and on what this government does. Now, you cannot ask us to resolve the mistrust between you, between Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya. In fact, we tried, to settle them, to make a different government, to make a government of the left. And you sorted and decided. And he decided to make a government with Juntes for Catalonia. Because it's obvious, isn't it? : to decide is to lead. And if we're talking about leadership, I think..., and I'd like to know what my country's president thinks about a key infrastructure for the country like the airport, and in this case, whether we have to have a 21st century airport or we have to have a 1990s airport. And I know what the president of AENA, Mr Lucena, thinks, and what he wants to do with these 1,700_million euros, which is what he did in the 1990s, which is an old policy that does not take into account climate change. I know what the PSC thinks, which acts as the representative of AENA in Catalonia. I know what Foment thinks, it's the same as always. I also know what the Mayor of Barcelona thinks, I know what the Mayor of Prat thinks, I know that he thinks, in this case, also the Mayor of Infrastructures and Urbanism in the City of Barcelona, that they think that there is climate emergence, that they think of a change of model of production, that they think of a model of economy based on the bad economy, science and research, and that they probably do not think of a model of tourism based no longer in 70, but..., because today it was about 100_million passers at an airport like Prat Airport, without taking into account that it is also a model of country that we are discussing, as if Reus and Girona did not exist, as if the Catalan airport system is only looked at from the centralist view of Barcelona. I know what your flaming Vice President, who has already told us today that the same as AENA, the same as Mr. Illa, the same as Mr. Lucena, thinks. Or so it seemed, we'll see. I don't know if in the end we'll find... – I thought I'd never say that – I don't know if in the end we'll find Mr. Calvet missing. Certainly, I take advantage of the fact that Mr. Puignero is here because I remember him carrying habitat. Because in the end it's an exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality, and second it seems to want to get it off. It is curious that we have a government where no one wants to lead the housing policy. Also, when we talk about the lack of leadership of this government..., no one wants to lead housing policies and it seems that they want to pass it to social services. Or this is what it looked like this week. But we do not know, and I return to the debate on the airport, what the President of the Generality thinks about the proposal, because in the end we have a very concrete proposal from the table, which is the proposal of Mr Maurici Lucena, which is the proposal of AENA, which is a proposal based on the 1990s. And you'll have to sort it out. And you will have to sort another time between a certain policy, which is the policy of the past, or it is looking at a policy of the 21st century and a policy in this case of the future. And look – that you were talking about the debate about what is left and what is not left – I think it's an oxygen between being left and not being an environmentalist, that it's an oxygen between not defending in this case the fight against climate change and, in any case, not saying that you are left, because I think things are interlinked. And also, right? I'm referring to something that Mr. Illa said, it's obvious that we, Catalonia, know how to asphalt five hundred meters. He just needed to say, like Mr. Bel, that Ricardo is a toll, which followed the mythical phrase of these days of Mr. Germà Bel. But I do want to tell them too: count on what they're doing. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] Because they also know how to make airports without planes, because Alguaire thinks he did it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.188.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.189.0	...and it wasn't, in this case, the Spanish State, but he did the Generalitat de Catalunya...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.190.0	Time's up, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.191.0	...and Mr. Nadal. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.192.0	Next is the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.193.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I have asked you to specify whether these two illegal objectives that you pursue – one, amnesty; another, self-determination – that you will arrive at them by another procedure that does not smell much legality, which is the anti-democratic battle to which you commit, if in that transit, if to make that fourth axis that is the axis of the process in this legislature, you will respect the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Catalonia and the laws. That's it. Because this doesn't look like you're gonna do it. And, of course, you're not committed here. And we have already told you that we are going to ask the President of the Government of Spain to ask you to clarify this issue. Because their three predecessors, pursuing this very thing with the illegal procedures they have used, have personally committed themselves to justice and have also committed members of their Government, for that is an absolutely relevant question. And that's why I did it and you didn't answer it. And, look, we... – I already..., warning, I already told you – we want you to be a government that respects the laws and takes care of the things that interest Catalans. And that we are going to demand, this, that it be so, because we have the right to do so, because we are in a democracy and no one is more than anyone. And so we demand that everyone be equal and comply with the laws like us. And as in these ten years the parameters that matter to the Catalans have worsened and have worsened because we have had successive governments that have not taken care of things, for I tell you some data – some data. Debt: from 35,616_million in 2010 to 79,119 now; from 17.70 of GDP to 37.10 of GDP. Investments: to receive investments to lose the European Medicines Agency. Business flight: to welcome companies to escape more than seven_ thousand. Occupations: from 968 occupations in 2010 to 6,647 in 2019. Persons on waiting lists to operate in the Servivei de Salut de Catalunya: 130,000 patients in structural waiting in 2012, 167,000 in the first half of 2020. And I understand, because of the lack of answer you have to a very simple question of whether you intend to comply with the law, because I understand that you will follow the path of the coup to which you have committed in your government agreement with the gentlemen of the UPC, with the gentlemen of Junts per Cat, that I believe Mr Batet has also been very clear in his presentation in this regard. And you are going to continue to dedicate your money to the Catalans to subsidize separatist chiringuitos as Platform per la lengua, to internationalize the lies of the process with separatist embassies, to maintain the Puigdemont life train, to pay for the most expensive propaganda of all Spain called TV3... And I have already warned you and warned you that we would not stand idly by and we will make this request to the President of the Government of Spain. You're going to meet him, aren't you? Well, by the time you go to the meeting, it wouldn't be wrong for Mr. Pedro Sánchez to ask you: "Listen, Aragonès, President, will you comply? Do you plan to comply with the laws in Catalonia like everyone else or not? Look, I'm telling you that you've accused us of being on the hamster wheel, but I understand that you're being made..., you're making fun of listening to Ciutadans after so many years that you're arguing about separating us from Spain as if you had every right to do it by legal, legal and illegal means, but you have to meet someone who says, "Well, no, that's not it. We're going to demand that the laws be enforced. We're gonna demand what democrats we are. And that's it. And those on the hamster wheel are you. First with 'the third great repte; then, 'the second great folder; then, the immediacy of 155, and now you with your fourth programmatic axis. It is you who are in the hamster wheel. And then, regarding our election results, I tell you, if we are insecure of discouragement. We have also had a number of presidents here who told us ‘you are going to disappear when we had three. Well, look, here we go – here we go. And I also tell you something else: when you have 1,100,000 votes like us we get to have and thirty-six seats, which Republican Left has never had in this democracy, then he talks to us and tells us. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.194.0	Then there is the words of Mr.Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.195.0	Thank you, President. In a very telegraphic way, simply to convey that once more, Mr Aragonès, refused to answer my questions concretely– and see that they were concrete– ; nor did he want to clarify the paper of Carles Puigdemont, nor did he want to clarify his opinion on whether or not he is the legitimate president, nor did he want to clarify the paper of the Council for the Republic. In short, he has made clear that he wants to rule and that he has decided to rule without transparency. It's not a minor issue, because, these themes, what you've just publicly recognized is that they'll be secret. I mean, they won't be under the scrutiny of public opinion. And that instead of informing the citizenry about the relationship between the governing partners and these issues, that they are the people who faced them, they will make a living together, and, through this coexistence, they will fix the problems without explaining anything to anyone. And that is what is an anti-democratic anomaly, Mr Aragonès, a deep anti-democratic anomaly. This doesn't happen to any democracy in the world, as you can imagine, and it's obvious. And that's what he does, as he gave it to the first intervention, that this government is unfeasible and that everything he said is dumb paper, because in the background it will all be conditioned to these cohabitations that you will do to speak precisely of what today has refused to speak, that it is the paper of Puigdemont and the paper of the Council for the Republic. And we will continue as we were in the last five or six years, with Catalonia paralyzed and without growth capacity, without the ability to imagine anyone. And while the people are entertained with amnesty and self-determination – who know perfectly well that they are inviable – they will continue, in short, stuck in the same theme as ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.196.0	Thank you very much. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Albert Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.197.0	I see that Mr. Alejandro Fernández is very concerned about what Mr. President Puigdemont is about. So President Puigdemont is a president who made the U of October, is a president who made a declaration of independence for this Parliament on October 27th, and that you, his government – and who currently only has three deputies, the People's Party – together with other political forces, unlawfully ended it with 155, and that you did not go and that you are fighting in Europe, against your will, that you tried not to stand in the European elections, and won the European elections, and that you are making a stand in Europe, and that you do not go and that you are fighting in Europe, with Germany, that you said that there was no crime of rebellion or of secession, and that you are fighting in Europe, where you see that there is justice, together with Germany, that there was no crime of rebellion or of sediction, and that you are fighting to achieve the country that has an end in Catalonia. (perlongats applause.) Therefore, a little respect for the presidents of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Mr.Alejandro Fernández. And as far as Oxymorons are concerned, I think that Mr. Illa and Mr. Cid were talking about Oxymorons, of course, Mr. Illa says: "No, listen, we are willing to make an alternate government and make opposition... – and etcetera –, "and here we need more resources. And, of course, when I hear Mr. Illa talking, I think, "Home, Mr. Illa? But if he was a minister, Mr. Illa! And he was Minister of the Government of the Spanish State, of Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who are the ones who have the resources! Miri, Mr. Illa, if you want to work with the Government of the Generality of Catalonia, if the Socialist Party and you want to be useful for the country, if you want to help Catalans and Catalans, it would be the most useful thing that you, who are already ruling, would be that your first secretary is minister of public administration, if I don't remember badly, so man, so tell Mr. Pedro Sánchez that I stopped scanning Catalonia with the fiscal deficit and that I stopped maintaining the constant incompliments around the funding of the Generality of Catalonia. ( Some applause.) Because then we come here and ask for more resources in the field of salvation. And, in change, there is a historical underfunding of the health system. We come here and we die: "There must be more resources for people. And we only forget that the law of dependence approved for Mr Zapatero gives 3,600_million euros of the law of dependence. And we do not forget that there is an additional third provision of the Statute for which it is due 3,300_million euros to the Government of Catalonia. Home, if you want to help, then help. And we could start by completing what the Autonomous Statute of Catalonia says. I wonder if it's simple. And Mr. Cid... of course, it's funny to feel the people of Podemos and the commons talking about resignation. Of course, they come to give lessons of Oxymores and talk about resignation. Clearly, Mr. Cid, Mrs. Albiach – which isn't there now, is it? – and of the commons, who say that well, that... clearly, the speeches endure everything. Speeches endure everything, Mr. Cid. (Founding voice) Speeches endure everything. And you, of course, say: "We who come from the 15-M and who are a movement that makes years, that we were born to change everything..., right? And it will. And now it turns out they're in a government that what he's doing is he's putting the light on a 27_per_cent. Thanks to the revolution of the commons, who are like ministers – yes, well-sent – approving that the bill of the light should be used to humble families, who do so up to the butxaca. Therefore, contradictions..., man, before I come here to talk of contradictions, first one that is placed a Mirall and is looked at his home. This government – this government –, voluntarily, renovated, reordered and evenly, has a compromise, which is to recover us from the economic crisis and prepare us to get to the Catalan Republic, with the will to lead a path to freedom. And I am convinced that these values of respect, trust and mutual loyalty will be a basic pillar for building, winning the future and winning Catalonia's independence. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.198.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.199.0	Thank you, President. President, compañeros and compañeros de govern, consellers, consellers, MPs, MPs, I'll go fast. The truth is, with this line, I can't leave... I've said it before, huh? It's been a long time since I intervened here, but it's been like a flashback in a few moments. There are things that don't change, unfortunately. What I wanted to convey to you is that I believe that, in the background, in the different interventions, there is one thing very clear, and I would like to beat some of those that have been said. And it's that the challenge that we have is very big, and yes, this government and the groups that support this government put all the illusion in it, we put all the compromise in it. And we have a lot of hopes not only to take on the emergencies that are already and that we are clear that we have undertaken to assume and that we have gone back to the length of the interventions today, but also to give this vision of the future. To take action today, but with a long vision and which we have very clearly concretely, with the different pacts and agreements, these great consensuses that we have said we want to push along with the country. And with these great transformations, this sack, which the president said. With this social transformation, because the equality of opportunity must promote the well-being of all people; because with the feminist transformation it is obvious that, if we do not achieve this equality, the country has not felt, and, therefore, yes, there must be rights, but we also need more rights and prevail for everyone. With ecological transformation to combat this climate crisis and put life in value and always – always – with this social and territorial cohesion. And we've said it over and over again, the democratic transformation, haven't we? , with this commitment to promote the participation of all citizens in politics, modernise administration and advance in those great consensuses, with this pact also for democracy, for the national agreement of amnesty and self-determination. But so much more important than these big reps and this governance structure, right? That takes these reps, they're above all the people you're here and you're going to make it happen... because, in the end, we still do people. And in this sense, starting for President Aragonès and all the advisors – Vilagrà, Verge, Alsina, Geis, Jordà, Cervera, Garriga, Ciuro – and the advisors – with Vice-President Puigneró, Councillor Torrent, Giró, González Cambray, Argimon and Elena – all the members and the government teams..., they are you, they are the ones who end up generating credibility and confidence also in institutions and policies. And that's why we congratulate the appointments and thank you for wanting to take on this responsibility at this moment so crucial to the future of our society, with the global challenges we have to face. Since the Republican Left Group we have made it clear that the values of equality..., and here we also celebrate this joint government, with more women and decisively feminist, but also integrity, honesty, humility, determination, which we believe must be combined with these principles of republican governance, transparency, participation, good governance, defence to preserve the rights of everyone and which must be the guide in government action. That's why we give our full support to the compromise of President Aragones and all the members of this government that you have with these principles and values, and from our parliamentary group we commit ourselves to promoting it if we are also vigilant in a loyal way. Finally, I encourage and invite you and convey to you all this feeling of the parliamentary group to be at your side at the time of entering the backs of this legislature, with all the help and desire to work in the right, with a vision of the future and with this compromise for the welfare of all citizens, for the transformation of the country, the construction of the republic and, as the President said, because we have to shake the country up to make a leap forward. So, friends, friends, here we are, for the country and for the republic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.200.0	After the appearance of the President of the Generality, we go on to the next item on the agenda, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree 11/2021, of 27 April, of fiscal, tax, administrative and financial measures. [[Decrees of 11/2021 and 12/2021]] [[203-00001/13 and 203-00002/13]] As I reminded the House that, as agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesman, this debate will be taken together with item 6 of the order of the day, which corresponds to the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 12/2021 of May 18, relating to the tax on stays in tourist establishments. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. The deputies who have to leave the room do it quickly and quietly. Thank you. First of all, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Jaume Giró and Ribas, Councillor of Economy and History, will intervene to expose the reasons for which both decrees have been promulgated. There's the word the counselor turned.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.201.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, make this intervention, the first of the Ple's Faristol, to present them, as is the precept, two decrees approved by the previous Government of Catalonia. The first, Decree Law 11/2021, of 27 April, of presupposition, taxation, administration and financing measures to deal with the effects of the pandemic of the covid. And the other, Decree Ill 12/2021, of May 18, relates to the tax on stays in tourist establishments. The two include concrete and targeted measures to help people in a concrete way, and aim to complement other measures already taken to address the effects of the health, economic and social crisis caused by the covid. The content of the two decrees, above all the first decree, I have to tell them that it's a little dense and dope, but I will try to make them all a complete explanation but as far as possible. Let's get started, then. Among the presuppositional measures contained in the first of the laws, it is established that 85_percent of the recovery resulting from sanctions imposed for different police organs for failure to comply with measures decreed during the first state of alarm is transferred to the respective joints, so that these joints are intended for preventive, follow-up and fight against the pandemic. With this decree, it is also better to manage and install funds from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and the fund known as REACT. I do so with the amendment of the 2 February Decree Law 5/2020, for which urgent measures are adopted for the implementation and management of the funds coming from the Recovery and Resilience Mechanism and the REACT Fund for the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia and its public sector in order to improve the management and absolvement of the objectives of the European funds Next Generation. In order to ensure the completion of the objectives fixed in the operational programmes of this fund, it is necessary to expedite the execution of the expenditure projects as much as possible. advancing the credit, if necessary, of the same department or entity. In order to ensure that this credit advance does not entail a lower expenditure on the departments by the end of the year, provision has been made for the possibility of returning the credit advance one time to the Treasury of the Generality. The fate of the returned credits..., will have to be used preferably to ensure the completion of the objectives of European fund programming, but it can also be used for other projects, such as recovery and economic and social resilience on the basis of the pandemic crisis, and that perhaps initially it could have remained..., if we do not put this decree into effect, it could have been left without the financing of European funds. In this way, honourable Members and Members, they intend to maximize the execution of European funds and also the execution of projects that have been selected and that are selected in the future. In the same line, to the extent that there is a high volume of contract with multiannual impacts than the projects programmed in the framework of the source of the recovery and resilience mechanism and also of the Reaction, which require this essential agility in the process, in order to simplify the management and ensure that the terms of execution are completed, the Department of Economy and Heritage is authorised to modify the commitments of expenditure on future years for the funded projects with the reaction and recovery and resilience mechanism, provided that the import of future annuities does not exceed 300,000_euro. Furthermore, between the presupposition measures, Article 5(7) of Law 4/2020, of 29 April, which affects the claims arising from the presuppositional service known as expenses of various departments, is amended. Why? So to attend to the needs derived from the pandemic with independence from the origin of the credit and the financing code. So here's the presuppositional measures. Tax measures. For fiscal measures, this decree extends one year, until 31 December 2022, the non-application of specific billing minima of water canon to hotel establishments, to camp and other long-term short-stay accommodation, in order to stimulate the economic activity and competitiveness of an environment, as you know, particularly affected and punished for the effect of confinement and uncertainty in the economy of the city, such as the tourism sector. It also establishes, in its Article 2, a system of tax subsidies on games of lot, envelopment or gambling that engraves recreational machines with different percentages of bonus according to the impact of government measures on the effects of the pandemic; some measures that have meant or have meant total closure to the public, for which bingoes, casinos and play halls, or partial closures and openings for limited or very limited slots, in the case of bars and restaurants. The third group of measures is to be financed. These measures..., according to the Generality's presuppositions law for the financial year 2020, if an entity in the public sector exceeds three-monthly at 31 December, the Generality has to apply a withholding tax for the same import to the transfer of the following year. Given the current context caused by the pandemic, this decree makes it possible for this retention exceptionally not to apply, whenever the General Intervention authorizes it. The initiative responds to the Government's willingness to enable these entities to fully implement their assumptions and thus help to reactivate the economy. Finally, by means of this decree, the Railways of the Government of Catalonia are authorized to formalise operations involving an increase of its indebtedness, up to a maximum of 120_million euros, in order to buy mobile equipment for the implementation of a new roundabout service between the airport and the city of Barcelona. Other additional financial measures, without being exhaustive, but I will highlight the most relevant, are to authorize the Government to guarantee up to EUR 500 000_ in favour of the ICF for the allocation of downstream and loan financing to non-profit entities linked to the third sector, mainly NGOs, associations, foundations and cooperatives. All of them, yes, with their own in Catalonia and which promotes development cooperation projects aimed at strengthening the social and solidarity economy at local and collective level, conditioned on the formulation of an agreement with the Catalan Institute of Finance, so as to constitute a guarantee foundation with regard to the assumptions of the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation. There are also administrative measures in this decree, such as authorizing the management of non-contractual forms of student care programmes with specific educational support needs. Another administrative measure incorporating this decree is the amendment of Article 17.2 of Decree 69/2020 of 14 July, on accreditation, social concert and management delegated to the network of social services of primary care, which is concrete in that the provision of emergency may be extended until the formalization of a new concert or of the delegated management. This procedure of emergence of provision of social services is designed to provide immediate care to persons in a situation of social urgency and vulnerability in cases where there is a difficult danger to their life or integrity, which is provided for in Article 17 of Decree 69/2020 of 14 July and Article 5 of the order of the then named Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. Therefore, in view of the current situation of social emergence and the vulnerability of persons using social services, it is appropriate to extend the maximum time to publish the public call for the provision of six-months up to one year, so that it guarantees the continuity of care and, ultimately, a better protection for persons using it. If I may, I will now summarise the contents of Decree No. 12/2021, of May 18, which is the second decree that commented on them, relating to the tax on stays in tourist establishments. It is, as you know, also subject to its validation, and it refers to the Decree 23/2020 of 9 June of urgent measures in the field of taxation, which extended until 1 January 2021 the entry into force of the increase in the rates of the tax on stays in tourist establishments approved for the Law 5/2020 of 29 April, of fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures and of the creation of the tax on installations which affect the environment, and which were to enter into force initially on 1 July 2020. Later, Decree Ill 36/2020 of 3 November, postponed until 1 June 2021. However, as we all know today's health situation does not allow tourism establishments to function with full normality, and in order to help the sector reactivate, it is considered necessary to postpone the entry into force of tariffs and charges until October 1, 2021. I take this opportunity to thank the previous government for the compromise, the work and the hard and difficult times of this unprecedented crisis. I hope that these two decrees will be validated insofar as they provide concrete measures and measures to combat the effects of the health, economic and social crisis in which, a little less, but still today, we find ourselves immersed. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.202.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, as agreed at the last Spokesman's Meeting, will have a maximum of two minutes per group. In the first place, Mr. Óscar Ordeig, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.203.0	Good afternoon, President; thank you. President, very honourable councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies..., first place, deix'm, councillor Giró, who congratulates him on the new responsibility and responsibility he occupies. As the chairman of our parliamentary group has already said, its successes will be the ones throughout the country, and so we want them, and it's not rhetorical, that you want them as much as possible, and we want them too, huh? , which we do not repeat, as the president said in the morning, mistakes of the past – all folds. To the former councillors, who have also been told, but I want to say this here, because there are also some that I appreciate very much, former councillors who have left the government and who are also here with us, at the seats of the deputies, also to give them thanks and thanks for all the work done for the good of the country in some moments, obviously, especially difficult, and therefore sure that we will go back. I know how to be very honest. You told us in the morning that we do not fight with harm, that we do not fight with prejudice. We won't do it. We will judge, evaluate and interact with you based on what you do today in the future, because we think it's the right thing to do. We may have some doubts, but also, if I may, and I don't take any advice... but I also give you a advice: sometimes what we're doing here is a little bit of an understanding. The suicide rate, suicide attempts, is due to clouds. What has happened here with homophobic attacks, what is happening with salvation, what is happening with many people who have no work. And people don't sometimes understand what we say or do from here, or that we don't help enough from here. Therefore, also by grabbing the thread of what was said here today, politics might have to divide it between those who are useful and those who are not. And, therefore, you too..., sometimes coming from outside politics can also serve to bring fresh air, new ideas and tarannas us. And here's where we hand him over, okay? And now you will have to learn those good things of politics to try, therefore, to donate solutions from the Parliament, from the Government of the Generality, in especially difficult times. So let's see. I think we have a lot of work to do. These decrees are in part. Let's do a little reflection. Allow me, since this is the first debate we have with you, that we also say some of the things that we – of context – believe are important to emphasize, in the margin of these decrees, that they have very correct things, demanded by different economic sectors, different social sectors, different administrative or legal changes, not of much transcendence, but that they are necessary to be able to keep up with the demands of public services. But there's not enough. We are missing, and we have already said... – I am sorry: this decree signed for the current president, and therefore, when he was vice president of the economy – we have said many times: we need a good photo. And here's where the Economic Advisor has to take a picture of what the department is, what the Catalonian Government is, what it is and what the public sector is dependent on the Catalonian Government. We have two-hundred societies, more or less. We have a budget of EUR 33,000_million. We have innumerable recommendations from the Union of Accounts that do not comply. And we make a debate sometimes to say that we need more money, more money, more money and more money. Mr. Batet said here: "We need more money, we need the government to give us the fiscal deficit, which... Listen, we've had 3,000 million euros more than 2020 of those that were planned, extraordinary, covid funds. What less, of course I do. And therefore, these moneys are precisely for giving help. But how much money do we need? Three thousand? Five thousand? Do we need to change the financing system? Clearly, because, if not, we're talking all day about the world being divided between yourself and independence, and if not, and we're also talking about the second things, and we don't... while we're not meeting, many times, which funding needs Catalonia, as we are meeting the health pandemic, as we are meeting some of the effects of the economic crisis of 2008 that we're still seeing and meeting the demands of a changing world, each time more changing, and a Catalonia and a Europe and a Spain that are very small compared to the world. Therefore, here it was said: we act and adapt or stay back. And it gives me the feeling that this means more money, more money, more money... Home, so no. Let's see what structure you need for your own years the Generality. You're starting a new legislature. It would be a good time to take a good picture of where we are and a projection of where we go our own years, which economic horizon, organize... Not all departments must always have more money. We must prioritize healthcare, yes, educational, social services, yes. We must prioritise economic recovery. Also. But, so, we can't go with the same mental scheme, huh? , and with the same complaint of all the years, to say: "We lack more money, more money... Well, more money, well, where do we lack more money? And then we'll go get them. And this is where we offer collaboration. Therefore, of the decrees they bring us, we will abstain, not because we disagree, but it is true that they did not inform us, they did not consent to them..., and then I recommend them and remind them of one thing: that they have no parliamentary majority, to the Government and, therefore, nothing happens. If you have the votes to approve, it's all right. We'll abstain to make it easier for him to get along. It's important that I pull this forward. This isn't a government decree, it's from the past. But we would ask them that face to face, man, that we do a little more reflection. Sometimes with details, huh? Measures including postponing the tax on touristic establishments. But, listen, we're already in the summer campaign, practically. What do we do with the tourism sector, one of the most affected by the pandemic? We all have to say it here. That's not the logic of independence, yes, independence, no. No, man, no. I think we can hear each other here. And at the end the last word will surely be the government, because it has to pull forward, right? But, as the chairman of our parliamentary group has already said, we are here to be useful. That's better, better, useful... I think I'm listening, who's useful that I come here, and who's not that I go to a TV set or that I go to another place. But, please – please – the situation is difficult, the time is difficult, the years that come continue to be difficult, we are still in a pandemic, it will be very difficult to be competitive, with the new world waiting for us, and, therefore, better than we do well. And, as I said before, listen, well, you need consensus to hold the majority and, therefore, here we are. On some economic issues we can hear. There's nothing else that's going on, huh? There's been talk of 85 percent of the numbers in the state of alarm for the joints. Totally fine. Correct. The improvement of the rate of recreational machines, recreation sector, the oci, also very touched. The reclamation of the water channel to touristic establishments. Presuppositional changes to allow European foundations to be integrated. Clearly, we have had a lot of points, a legal change, but you say: "Home, here is a good debate on European foundations, in depth. We haven't done a few, we haven't done a few, but we'll have to do more. And who do you think this is about looking at our honey and staying here and saying, "No, no, you don't think like us, you're not here or you haven't voted the president of the government, so I think you're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong. Because I think these years are important, to lay the foundations of the next decade. We can't do everything, but we can do a lot. We have to do a lot. And here, as the competitions are distributed, so it will have to go to Europe, it will have to go to the Government of the State to ask for more funding. Of course I do. And that, even if we were an independent country, we wouldn't get away with it, would we? , because obviously many competitions are delegated. Also, obviously, modifications to meet the necessary assumptions of CatSalut. Totally fine. To make the call for social services, as he said, so as not to have so many problems to extend it to a year, it also seems good to us. I believe that, therefore, our vote will be abstaining. Yes, we'd like to ask him a series of questions. I know it's not a session now. We will have time, when I come to the committee, to talk about who their priorities are, but I do think it would be important, man, to have 2021, but then start thinking 2022. But something we'll have to explain to the citizenry and something we'll have to have. I apply myself, when I leave home, always the theme of maximum self-requirement, self-criticism too, because here no one has the absolute reason and, therefore, we all have a share of responsibility, to represent the best possible citizens. But, for that matter, try not to repeat past mistakes. There's a lot of fear that we could hear each other and I don't know why... well, I know, for different reasons, but we haven't just heard each other. We have been claiming years and years and years of disability flexibility, which the Generality needed to be able to make more of a deficit, in order to better meet the needs of the citizens. And it turns out that when they allow us to make it more difficult, more flexible, we don't exhaust it. Maybe it's not the solution, making it difficult, but at least we have to talk about air as it is. The same thing I say with the debt. We're in debt to the gorges. But fine, but it's going to be necessary to set up a future plane as this debt is paid. There's a lot of ways to do it. So, I think there's a lot of fear here that they're not white or black and so everyone will help us. Nor did you feel that the Generalate stopped lending according to what you served for just paying the debt, because it has a financing and entrance problem. Like, I repeat, you didn't even hear us say that here we have to spend, spend, spend and spend. No, no, It has to be spent and it has to be invested. And it has to be spent well. Okay? And for another band, I don't think I'm leaving anything behind. No, no, As many as two seconds are left, it's just over to say we abstain, to wish them all the uncertainties, to put us at their disposal. I think we have a lot of work to do. I don't want to clap it, but the responsibility is very great, and the Economic Advisor, as you know, has to have an integral view of the entire Government of the Generality and, therefore, has a strategic position for the good functioning of the Generality for the next few years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Next is the words of Mr Antonio Gallego, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.205.0	Thank you very much, President. I would also like to start this speech by congratulating and congratulating the new Economic Adviser. I hope that you will be right in your day-to-day decisions, because they will affect all of us Catalans. I'm going straight to the decree that you read very well. But, finally, I, to be frank, when I saw this decree, then, I felt stupefaction and disappointment, because, frankly, when you analyze the content, then you realize that there are half a dozen measures of short flight, of gallinaceous flight, of very littlejundia, eh? Frankly, I think a great opportunity to make, man, a couple of decrees has been missed, finally, at the height of the economic circumstances that Catalonia is going through in recent times, right? It gives the feeling that there are four patches there appelotonados, in short, but that they do not address any kind of structural reform, do they not? I think Catalonia needs a one hundred and eighty-degree turn in fiscal policy; it has to control its atolled unproductive political spending, it has to control its debt, as you know, about 80,000_million_of_euros that place Catalonia at the head of Spain's public debt, and of course it has to address the budget, it has to make a budget, Catalonia. In other words, we have made two budgets over the past six years. I don't know if you've been able to follow this, but if there's no budget this year, it would be the... well, we'd be doing just two budgets in the last seven. This is not normal, this is not typical of a country, as you say, or of a region or an autonomous community, I don't care, that it says it's pointy, that being..., in short, it's not normal, it's not normal that in the last seven years only two budgets are made. On the issues that make reference, at last, to the decree, right? , i.e. on the fines imposed during the pandemic, make two comments. Frankly, we find it very sad what has happened in recent times with this issue. Fire trackers to hire fine collectors because he doesn't speak well about his management, huh? 359 frac collectors have been hired to collect fines while, on the other hand, they were firing trackers. Anyway, that greed... reminded me of that enough to raise the inheritance tax in the middle of the pandemic. Anyway, there are things that are indecent, if I may express, there are things that don't have to be done like this. You have to know..., you have to have sense of the moment, sense of the place and sense, in short, of the general perception of things. They didn't take a good look at him. What I'm telling you is that it's okay for them to regulate that 85_per_cent of the collection is going to fight the pandemic, because that will prevent circumstances like the ones we met last week, where we find out that covid funds have been used to pay TV3 programs. So, to avoid these ugly little things, by the way, it's okay to regulate that the money you raise goes to what it has to go to, huh? That pointer wanted to do it, didn't he? On the bonus of tax rates and not to apply the minimum billing in the water fee, because I think it is reasonable. It would be unheard of to do the opposite, that is, to continue doing what you are doing in recent times: to continue charging people who cannot work as a result of decisions you make. So it seems reasonable, huh? With regard to... There is one issue that I don't know if you have commented on – but, well, it's in the decree, it doesn't have much mystery either – it's to give you..., open the door for the Catalan Development Agency to be able to do financial activity, isn't it? We don't like that, do we? Opening the door to that in this context, with the capital needs that so many citizens have in Catalonia, it seems irresponsible to us, huh? And especially on this subject. That is to say, aid, solidarity in Catalonia right now has a deep crisis of reputation and credibility as a result of some information that we have been able to read in the media, right? There are important suspicions of corruption about public solidarity in Catalonia, aren't there? It seems to me unwise to extend the powers of this body, precisely when Judge Joaquín Aguirre has just asked the High Court of Justice of Catalonia to open an investigation against the deputy of Junts, Francesc de Dalmases for profit is alleged and precisely, eh? , development aid, aid, inter alia, from the latter. I mean, I think that... well, as I said before, finally, the judge has considered that there are reasonable indications of criminal responsibility over the Member to whom I referred, crimes of misappropriation of public revenues, prevarication, trade in influence by benefiting indirectly from 224,000 euros, right? That is, all of this supposedly, logically, but, in the end, there it is, and it is known – it has come out in all the newspapers – everyone knows that there are investigations already in serious phase that speak, in the end, that point to possible turbulent, dark and very pestilent corruptions in this whole sector. Therefore, we are also not now to give more competence to this type..., to this organ. We would have thought..., we would have expected in this decree, well, that it would have appeared..., that the Generalitat would have been faced with this issue or that a comprehensive external audit would have been made of the funds that have been managed by this and other similar entities, because they are really absolutely necessary. On the creation of the public company Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya Mobilitat, SA, we, from minute one, have expressed our opposite position. We think that there is no need at the moment to set up a public enterprise and provide it economically with that potential investor, in short, when Renfe can perfectly perform those services because it has the trains. I do not understand, frankly, we do not understand from the Parliamentary Group of VOX..., no, no, we do not understand, we do not understand that we have to buy at this time twelve trains worth 187_million_of_euros and that today we authorize this entity of new creation to be in debt up to 120_millions. We think it doesn't touch now, we think there are other priorities. I don't think it's time to buy 12 trains worth 187_million_euros now. So that part of the decree, too, because it is not to our liking, that is, and more when that service could be arranged, as I said before, with Renfe, could it not? And the fifth and final reflection on the points that appear in the decree is on the so-called tourist rate, isn't it? The decree itself says: the government postpones the charge again, doesn't it? , until 1 October, and it says literally 'because it favours the reactivation of the sector. Indeed, that tax, that tax on the sector bothers you – it bothers you – and as you know it bothers you, to help you catch and withdraw the tax. Good, good. But what they do not have to do is to temporarily withdraw the tax, what they have to do is to eliminate the tax, directly – directly – because the sector needs it, because it would help the competitiveness of companies in the sector, make them more competitive with other types of operators and because it is not really being used with the finalist objective with which it was created. Therefore, since the VOX Parliamentary Group, we are opposed to this tax and nothing else. They will have deduced that we will vote against the intervention and in successive decrees, try to make them more complete, eh? , with measures of greater silence and that are up to the circumstances, right? because in the end, finally, a decree of six folios so, and present it here as the salvation of Catalan economic policy, because it is a little... at least, it does not seem very serious to me. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.206.0	Yes, Mr. Dalmases, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.207.0	President, I would like to ask for the reference to Article 87. They have directly referred to this Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.208.0	Forward, yes. It's in 30 seconds, a maximum minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.209.0	I am used to it, and I know that the arguments that I can offer to the honourable Member are not worthy of any attention, but in any case, there is a language that does, that is, that is the idiot of the prosecution, and in this case that has made reference and speaking directly of this deputy, the prosecution has said: "It does not proceed, that it seems that it is part of the news that he does not want to hear. I'm sure they'll finish fine-tuning it, but in any case the prosecution of this case says: "I don't proceed and I understand that this is a language they do understand. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.210.0	Next, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.211.0	Thank you, President. Counselor. Before I started, my company this morning was talking about or remembering some phrase that "here it smells like sulfur and I'm going to say that it is clear that there is someone who bothers him that there is someone who fights against the accumulation of wealth, because it is fought against his people and against his people. That's why it attacks the Catalan cooperation that carries years working against global inequalities and is exemplary; a cooperation and a people that carries years working to eradicate the privileges that you defend, because you defend the privileges of the Marquises and the Riches. Therefore, not a single word against Catalan cooperation and the hundreds of people who wear years working to eradicate the inequalities of the world. [[Greetings.]] I, then, going to the one who touches us. We are aware that the purpose of the government's intervention before the parliamentary debate, is to say, before the debate to the totality in a law decree or in a bill of law is not a debate with the member of the government who made the presentation. Actually, it was a while ago and it's not there, the president before the vice president, is it? And, in fact, it is strange to do this debate and to do it or to do it as set out in the Article of the Statute of Autonomy or the Rules of Parliament and, therefore, we are doing it anonymously. However, we think that it is worth starting this intervention by making a point to the abuse of the law decree by the government, as the outgoing government does, we hope that the entrance will not be so, that taking advantage of this figure, and even more so under the excuse of the health emergency situation, has had to validate this chamber several decrees without, in our view, the grounds of urgency or the necessary needs and without counting with the consent of the sectors affected by the mass or the consent of the legislative chamber. In fact, we have examples of housing decrees, which had to be withdrawn by the government because they reached the full without the lack of sufficient support for their validation. So, and maybe it's not his responsibility, but for us we could say that we start with little if we reproduce or if the first one we debate in this chamber after there is new government are decrees that are used in the same logic as the last months of the outgoing government. Therefore, we hope that the measures that the Government is pushing from now on will truly respond to the rights and needs of people, taking into account the social, economic and environmental return of the measures to be adopted. We therefore hope that the Government will not approve of any measure without listening to the political sectors, the economic sectors, the cultural and social sectors of our country. You were talking this morning, weren't you? , to omit prejudices. I'll be honest, I try to avoid prejudice. Now, let's say these decrees are about fighting the effects of the crisis generated by the cove, so we think it's a little realistic. It's a little realistic because they don't go to nothing. In the background, they perpetuate the fact that the last few months have existed and perpetuate the policies that have taken place so far. There's no transformation. He didn't go to the game, did he? , to really generate better conditions for workers in this country. In fact, there is a driving wire in these two decrees– there are more things– but there is a driving wire that has to do with tourism. For or for, in both decrees, right? the tourism sector sees measures that will try to deal with the effects of the crisis in this sector because, as Mr Ordeig said before, right? We are already in the summer campaign and here we are adopting measures linked to this sector. We would like, however, to reflect on the tourism sector in our home, a tourism sector that is basically made up of heritages that come from industry at the time, especially heritages that between the end of the past century are decanting towards tourism. They were industrial sectors that decided to sell their company and that sought a higher return for their assets. Someone could say that this is legitimate. It would be legitimate if it were not to exploit workers on twelve-hour days, on precarious wages that, moreover, are seasonal work places, wouldn't it? And that, therefore, what they end up doing is collecting misery, in the fact that they don't even arrive at the minimum annual average wage, right? And that, therefore, means that we are expelling a lot of people who, in the background, are forced to work or that the only way out you have is to work in the tourist sector, right? So they were a heritage that decided to get more income and it was an income that they couldn't find in the industry – because in this country for years there has been no clear industrial policy, an industrial public policy that I really bet for industry in the broad sense of the word and that you're old because there have been no displacements and because what is not done is to make people more precarious, isn't it? – an income that they did not find in the industry and that, at the time, they decided that they found it in the real estate sector and in the tourism industry. 2008 saw what was going on with the real estate sector. A real estate bubble that burst out, which led us to think that the problem was the real estate sector, but that, for us, the one that posed a replete was that capitalism, the capitalist system, in the background, lived long ago for its own natural crisis a deep crisis. A deep crisis that, moreover, 2008 did not address in its complexity. Because we saw that the response of all the public administrations and of the European Union at that time was not to resolve the crisis, but to pacify it, to store it. And, in fact, we're still paying for this. Therefore, a tourism sector which has also benefited from poor societies or comarques which do not have so much industrial sector. And someone will say, it generates jobs and generates wealth. It's been a while. In the medium and long term it generates more impoverishment, because it generates or because it lowers income per capita, because it builds societies a little more unequal. I, therefore, the competitive fam ies. Mr. Canadell, I see you're drivin'. You're the one who defends so much competitiveness ends up making companies less competitive. Depending absolutely on tourism. In fact, there are studies, various studies. But the study of an agency – it will not be anti-capitalist, the agency – AIS Group, of the year 2015 detected that the poor Catalan cities of more than 10,000 inhabitants, right? – made a study about the poor to the Catalan cities of more than 10,000 inhabitants – and already showed how among the worst places there were cities or there were cities with a strong tourism sector. And, in fact, if we go to the Idescat and compare and look at it by the head or look at the Idescat indexes, we find that there is a large percentage of impoverished families in the municipality of the coast. As I said before, tourism pays low wages because it is a seasonal activity and because in the background it takes advantage of this. Therefore, the guiding thread of these decrees for us is no longer what should be transformed or at the root of things. Because here they talk that tourism generates work. But no one talks about the pee chambers or the Kellys, no one talks about the riders, no one talks about the tourist guides, no one talks about the museum workers or the same sector of restoration and its precarious conditions. This is the tourist sector they want to promote. And I'll be done, 'cause I see I'm late. But here, isn't it? After a year of the pandemic, what we need to talk about and the debate is in: Are we changing or are we still the same? And what we're seeing is that the economic sectors that want to go back to normal. The question is, whose normality are they talking about? From the regulars from the precarity? From normal to unequal? Because normality is neoliberalism for them. The neoliberalism that you firmly believe in the free market and the private enterprise. In the free market and in the private enterprise to the detriment of the public sector, of the organized working movement and of the collective movement that is based on solidarity. And this is the transformation, and here's where we think we should go. I'm done. Turning a little to the principle, these decrees read for us are more of an exhibition of the policy of apprehension that featured the former government. I need to plan. Cal's planning the economy, counselor. What is urgent and necessary are policies that transform relations that govern us, policies that transform relationships and that give way to the demands of our people at the social, national and environmental levels and that address the major challenges that arise. They have the opportunity to do it from now on. They have the opportunity to do so with European funds not repeating what has been done so far. They have the opportunity to bet on an industrial model that defends the labor rights of workers in this country. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.212.0	Thank you very much. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Pomão, Mr. Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.213.0	Thank you. So, good afternoon to all of you. Good afternoon, Mr. Giró. We are condemned to hear, to see each other, it seems to me that above all, which is already good, because as we go talking, we go to understand each other and we can go building nine things. I put Einstein back in the middle, and yes, he said the damage. We will try, among all, to break any kind of harm and from, say, change, also, in the political and economic practices of this country, right? We had, we have before us two decrees of the law and they ask us to validate these two decrees of the law. We're having a hard time. We have it complicated, because one thing is to approve these two decrees of law and another thing would be to see if you came here to ask to process as the bill of law these questions that are here. They would be two different plantings. Because with this second we could talk about it. Because with the first, to validate these two decrees, we have a hard time, because in these two decrees, we find three blocks of problems that are important to us. A block that would refer to procedural, democratic issues, we could say. Another one that would refer to questions of opportunity. And another one that would refer to economic issues, we could talk about it, right? From a procedural, democratic point of view, we find two problems in this respect. One, which refers to elements of participation and another to elements of clarity. It can be decreed by law, only it would be missing. The decrees you are a legal figure that, as a matter of urgency and exceptionality, can be done. But what we can't do with the decrees is obviate the need for participation, consultation, right? , to the affected sectors, but also to the political forces. The law decree must also come after having spoken of it, after having tried to make consent. If the decree does not provide for this work above, obviously there is a democratic procedural defect on our part – at least this is what we see – which refers to this lack of participation and this need for debate. So here's a problem. And the other, which he also gave, procedural, democratic, would refer to the question of clarity. We're talking about two decrees of the law. One is very clear, talking about the tourist tax. Point. The other, of course, the other is a bar, it's a bat of questions. In other words, we are talking about changing the assumptions..., « presuppositional and fiscal measures of the assumptions; amending a law, amending a law decree that had been made on February 21, amending another law, amending another law decree of 2020 and also amending the decree on social services networks. Clearly, we've put in a decree the mass of things, and different things, of different levels. And that sweeps it and that doesn't make it clear. And from the procedural point of view, we have a lot of difficulty in being able to validate this law decree, because it didn't participate and barrage, it's confided. There's an opportunity. The opportunity would be the real urgency of this decree. I think the urgency is also relativized. There is some measure – now not... – where – I don't know the concrete article –, we fix the measure, situate something so that it is a measure that has scope for application until the December 2022 with retroactive character from the generation of 2021. God, man, very urgent, very urgent will not be if we reach the September 2022 and, in any case, is planted with retroactive effects. They could do it now, they could do it from here three, four, five months. The urgency is not clear either, I say, in this aspect. Therefore, from the point of view of urgency, from all and each of the measures in this decree, I think they are unclear. There are some legal changes that I think are substantial and that would be worth making a more substantive debate, because we are modifying drafts of the law that... Using the way of the law decree, this quick way of modification, can alter even all the initial philosophy of the law that is intended to change. And the third element, which I think is the most useful at this time, is the utility. What we give of the economic utility or questions behind this decree would be, in short, the purpose and utility of the decree itself. We do not see viability or economic virtuality in these two decrees. Not in the end, not in the end, not in the end. Clearly, the purpose gives the feeling that what ends up is reinforcing, in a way, the mechanisms that already worked in the system's conjunction. And utility, neither, because it does not change, does not generate new dynamics necessary in the context in which we are living. There are elements that are obvious. When we are talking about the tourist tax, for example, to set aside the tourist tax, the supplement that is paid, say, to the user, in June accounts, to place it in October. Say, look, this fee or this fee charge affects users, it doesn't affect the entrepreneur, it pays the user. Endorsing this tax per October does not have any type of effect on the social demand of the hotel sector. Users, potential customers, will not fail to purchase, say, this service because the tax on this is or does not. Therefore, it does not have any type of effect on the demand of the tourism sector and, obviously, it does not have any type of effect on the tourism sector's own business, because it is not paid by the tourism entrepreneur, it is paid by the customer, it is paid by the user. It doesn't have any kind of virtuality from the economic point of view. But by doing this tax, what we're doing is we're preventing a more substantive debate about which is the tourist model that the country needs. And, precisely, by reinforcing a functioning mechanism that we believe is not adequate – and that the pandemic has shown problems –, what we are preventing is, precisely, to make this debate more substantive than what is the most integral model, more connected to the territory, more socially compromised with the workers and the workers, of the highest quality. We are not making this debate about who is the tourist model where we should move forward and make this debate, obviously, in areas of social concertation, with the representatives of the workers and the workers and the entrepreneurs. We are not making this debate, we are simply reinforcing the dynamics that we have brought these past years and we are simply saying that the tourist tax will not pay it now, but that it will be paid by three months from now by users, without any kind of effect and without any type of strategic message, of strategic change in the tourism model of our country. Therefore, from this point of view, we believe that it does not have the necessary economic utility. And three-quarters of the same is going on with the theme of swimming pools. On the subject of swimming pools in camping and also in hotel facilities, we are doing a little bit, reinforcing the idea that bonuses, discounts, tax gifts help improve the competitiveness of the economy, help define changes in strategies. No, listen, with the bonuses we're doing, we're consolidating certain sectoral economic processes of operation. We are not encouraging changes, because changes will not come because we are taxing gifts, they will come because we generate different dynamics of strategy, with which, possibly, we will have to raise resources, we will have to raise aid, we will have to raise incentives. But it's not the bonus, it's not the tax gift, it's not the tax relief that will lead the change strategies that this country needs. And, on the other hand, we are reinforcing an idea that taxation, by lowering it, helps to stimulate the economy. I don't; the economy doesn't go through tax cuts, it doesn't go through tax subsidies. Possibly, it passes through the public leadership of change strategies that, possibly, are, obviously, public reversals. But let's not cut tax on them. And it is also important that we know what is the key discourse in economic policy that we want to strengthen: a progressive and fair taxation that helps things move forward, to have enough public resources to make public policies necessary, or a taxation that simply goes downhill, a spiral, say, of devaluation that ends up leaving the system without the public resources needed to make, as we say, public policies necessary. That is why, obviously, we do not have many facilities to positively value these decrees. On the contrary, we believe that, as presented, they are neither useful nor opportune nor democraticly articulated in the necessary way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.214.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word "Mr. Matías Alonso".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.215.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, councillor, lords, honourable Members... We have put to debate and vote the validation of two decrees of the law promulgated on behalf of the king for the president and then vice president of the government and substitute for his predecessor, disqualified for justice. I want to stress the fact that these decrees of law, like any other promulgated for the presidency of the Generality, have been promulgated in the name of the king. And I do so because the Government of the Generality is placed in evidence even in the administrative formula chosen for promulgation in accordance with the democratic order of the decrees of the Law. He has always called me attention as the Government of the Generalitat tries to pass points on political or legal reality. The democratic mandate of Article 67.6 letter to the Catalonian State of Autonomy makes it very clear that it corresponds to the President of the Generality, as the ordinary representative of the State to Catalonia, to promulgate – you see here – on behalf of the king the laws, the decrees law and the legislative decrees – on behalf of the king, I have made it clear. But the Generalitat makes use of an administrative formula that tries to leave a small amount of this undisputed reality. The formula begins by referring to Article 67.6 letter to the Statute and the democratic mandate it contains, to finish, they say: "I agree with this, I promulgate the following decree to you. I mean, in the name of the king. I make this administrative reference to make it very clear, from the legal, political and institutional point of view, that from all points of view applicable to the case in question, that these decrees, like all those which have been issued by the Government of the Generality, have been promulgated on behalf of the king on behalf of whom, at the time of his approval by the Executive Council of the Government of the Generality, was the ordinary representative of the State in Catalonia. In the case before us, Mr Aragonès; when the Executive Council approved these decrees, Vice-President in tasks of President-in-Office of the Generality, by the work and thanks of the anti-democratic activity of his predecessor. Ordinary representative of the State, without a hint of relativism, without a hint of distortion, beyond the continued willingness to entangle staff looking to anchor as much as possible the reality of the city of Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in this Parliament all of us by virtue of the democratic order we have given each other in greater or lesser enthusiasm. We're here by virtue of the law in force. And that's why we can exercise and exercise our functions as MPs. And it is by virtue of this democratic framework that President Aragones has been invested in this Parliament. The same mark that obliges him and all members of his government to be loyal to democratic institutions with scrupulous respect for democratic order and to rule for all Catalans, not just for their own rope, which, even though they sometimes deny it, is what the masses often do. And maybe we should start telling your proselytes the truth. This generality of Catalonia, even the repeated statements of the president of the government, has nothing to do with republican. The Government of Catalonia continues to feel the autonomous public administration in the Catalan territorial area in our social and democratic state of law, which has as political form the parliamentary monarchy. Therefore, this generality has nothing to do with republicanism. Even so, I believe that the members of the government and the political parties that give him parliamentary support do not even defend the true republican values: those of freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism that advocate the Constitution and the State. They are – they have shown enough – much more to pull for the right and to hope that their anti-democratic behavior has no consequences at all. Well, then, two decrees that we are submissive to today's validation in this plenary debate of Parliament, within the term of the precept, before they expire. For what it does to the Decree Law 12/2021, of 18 May, relating to the tax on stays in tourist establishments, in force from the 21st of May of enguany, the decision of the Government of the Generalitat that the modification of the rates of the tax on stays in tourist establishments established in Article 3 of Law 5/2020, of 29 April, of fiscal measures, financed, administrative and public sector and creation of the tax on the installations that affect the environment, has effects from the 1st of October of 2021, instead of the 1st of June, which was provided for by the Law on the Accompanying of the Presuppositions of the Generalitat of 2020. This decision was taken by the Government in view of the delicate economic situation in the tourism sector as a result of the heavy health and economic crisis caused by the covid-19 pandemic. A four-month moratorium that applies in high season from the point of view of tourism. We must reiterate another objective reality. Catalonia is ahead of the tax burden, we lead the Spanish tax return. Catalans, in general, and entrepreneurs and locals in particular, are the Spanish citizens we pay the most taxes. And this is so because a hypertrophied and oversized public administration in some services, while underdominated in essential services, as can be seen, for example, with sanitation at this time of pandemic..., and the response of the Government of the Generality, especially to the last four legislatures, has been nothing more than to increase taxes, to get your hands on the citizens of Catalonia's buttocks. This rationalisation of public administration and the prioritization of spending on essential services is not a government priority either. It's much easier to keep scanning people through taxes. The citizens are not against this moratorium. We are, if not, against the rise of the nine rates of the tax on stays in touristic establishments. A tax that continues to be charged with the pre-tax rate and that in the situation of economic hardship in the tourism sector should have left no effect, should not have been charged. This is the urgent and necessary measure that the Government of the Generality should have taken. Not this past May, but since May 2020, in the midst of a pandemic crisis. Not a moratoria de la pujada, but a moratoria de la recaptazione de l'impost. For what it does to Decree Law 11/2021, of 27 April, of fiscal, tax, administrative and financial measures, which came into force on 30 April, Ciutadans can agree on some of the measures that it proposes, but not on others, that we see neither necessary nor transparent, because we are already very accustomed to the tripijoc of the separatist governments of the Generality. We agree, for example, that 85_percent of the recovery from penalties imposed for failure to comply with the regulation of the first state of alarm, decreed for the pandemic of the covid-19, denounced for the Catalan assemblies, is destined for the respective joints. But we would also like to know what the real recaptancy was, how many of these sanctions have been carried out by those responsible for the non-compliances, and not just the period that this decree provides for, from March 14 to June 21, 2020, but all of the sanctions imposed, even though it was in percentage, because we are convinced that many of these sanctions have remained in no-res, in full paper and have not been effectively enforced. We can also agree with the bonuses provided for in Article 2 of the Decree on the quotas of the tax on recreational and gambling machines, corresponding to the first two quarters of encanny. As we agree with the non-application of specific billing minimums of the water canon to hotel establishments, campgrounds and other long-term short stays between the 1st of the guinea-genre and 31st of December of the year you see. But we do not agree with the measures provided for in the additional provisions of this Decree Law 11/2021. In order to get ahead of us, we are not in agreement with the modification of the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation's Creation Law in the terms exposed to the third additional provision: they take another way of possibly out of control of public resources spending, deliver another key from the box, and a little more transparency by place. And neither do we have anyone who can persuade him to authorize by this decree a debt of up to 120 million euros to an anonymous company dependent on the Generality to acquire mobile railway equipment to implement a new roundabout service between the airport and the city of Barcelona. Not because we don't think we can implant and improve this service, but because we think the forecast is excessive and the proposal has the opportuneness to what the Government of the Generality has accustomed us to. If you want to implement this service, let's talk about it in the presupposition process. Do it now and I can't count on Ciutadans' approval. Therefore, the announcement that without being at all in disagreement with both decrees will already count on the support of Ciutadans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.216.0	Next, there is the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.217.0	Thank you very much, President. I... Good afternoon to everyone. First, excuse me, I don't want to be rude, I want to start this intervention, therefore, congratulating the new advisor on the nine tasks he is taking here, some difficult responsibilities in a difficult time. Today the new Government of the Generality appears to present us and defend two decrees laws that were approved by the previous Government at its long stage of government in office. They have been making changes..., inter-channels, better said, of councils between the two governing partners during these negotiations that have lasted a few months and have wanted to make everyone believe that there is a new government, but the reality is that we have more of the same, badly. The intersection of departments between the two formations that conform to this coalition of government has been nothing more than a simple make-up operation: here nothing has changed, only the cares of the government have changed, but the new execution kept exactly the same policies as the previous one, and this, believe me, is the main problem that Catalonia has. These two decrees that the government presents today are the show of how the former government and now, sadly, this new one, it seems, will be, manage the worst health, social and economic crisis that Catalonia has seen in a long time. It is clear that outside the process there is also a full route and that the decisions adopted are only stuck, according to the needs of the moment, and that at the end there is no long-running planning. More than pushing the tax burden to the citizens, who in this are very quick to agree, it does not seem that there is a viable plan for the economic recovery of Catalonia. In order to be Madrid's steals, you should begin to assume that you are the worst that has passed you to Catalonia and are the best that has passed you to Madrid. They have been able to take advantage of their lack of management and this loss of economic leadership in Catalonia is being driven by all Catalans, whether independent or not, with the loss of investments and thousands of jobs that have been destroyed and that have not ceased to be created. This government has faced the pandemic and its consequences based on the approval of laws, in timely, improvised measures, which have been constantly modified at the length of the pandemic because they have proved to be utterly ineffective. And if they've been able to do so, it's thanks to the fact that they've found an opposition on the front that has thought more about the general interest than you have. A sad example that reflects this ill-doing of this government was the gymnasium to which thousands of autonomists subtended to access clearly insufficient help. Sad episode of that and enough shame. But before this attitude is responsible for a good part of the opposition, the Government has continued to act as it has always done, without counting on the rest of political formations or at least on a large part of the rest of political formations, and what is much worse: without counting on the sectors affected by their decisions. It is the case of unwarranted criminalization that the restoration sector has systematically been subdued and that has caused thousands of closures and accompaniments, and that will take a long time to recover. The same thing happens now with these two decrees that are submitted to validation today. We cannot share the totality of the measures contained therein. Some because they don't solve the problem that really has its roots. Others, in change, because we do not believe that it is absolutely necessary to adopt them, and less to take advantage of the exceptionality of the pandemic moment to approve them. The Decree of 11/2021 repeats the pattern of the decrees approved at the end of the year: a very heterogeneous content, which incorporates timid measures, clearly insufficient, of support to the sectors most affected by the pandemic and the restrictions agreed for the Generality or the Process, we do not well know for whom. This decree approves the transfer, as you very well explained, counsel, to the joints 85_percent of the recapitulation of penalties imposed for the same joints with reason of the violation of the first state of alarm. The measure is presented to us as a financial support for the gatherings that during the pandemic have had to make great sacrifices. Without doubt they have made them, the great sacrifices, but when it is looked at with detail what has been approved it is seen that of support to finance in little way. Only the import of penalties imposed by local police is transferred, the import of penalties imposed by the Squadron Mosses is left to the Generality and they do not even transfer the totality of the import until only 85_per_cent. Why 85_per_cent? It's not known or justified. What we know is the cipher – and maybe we should start talking with ciphers. The xifra we're talking about is about 351,000 euros, which would be divided between 133 joints. The rest is, say, 15_percent of the remaining local police sanctions and the total imposed sanctions for Mossos, which amounts to more than 1_million euros, is left to the Government. The decree also provides for the 80_percent bonus of the fee on the game that charges recreational and gambling machines located in gaming establishments and the 50_percent bonus of the fee in the case of machines located, for example, in bars. This type of establishment has been reduced to a minimum by government decision. It would only be necessary after forcing them to close they are forced to pay taxes as if they had been fully paid. At the length of this pandemic, this parliamentary group has required the government to zero-input, zero-input. This bonus is welcome, sense of doubt – before anything else, better than that – but we believe that it must become a total exemption from the tax to those who have been passing it, mainly the tourism sector, restoration and the oci. With regard to the extension of the non-application of the specific limits of the water canon to hotels, campgrounds and other short-term accommodation facilities, the Government finally ends up giving us reason. As we have already claimed, the extension until now in force was absolutely insufficient. It is now corrected and extended until 31 December 2022. Welcome follow the extension, but why not delete these specific limits? We are talking about an impact of €613.00_. Res justifies not being able to delete them and help the tourist accommodation establishments de facto. Finally, this decree incorporates specific measures of the presuppositional extension situation and adds an additional provision, the third, which deserves special attention. The legislation governing the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation is amended to include, among its functions, the possibility of exercising as an entity swallower dedicated to it. It may seem like a minor modification but from now on the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation will be able to endorse up to 500,000_euros. Who is the urgency that justifies this change through this decree? Why is this change being made and whose reasons are there some of the questions we think that government has to answer before this plenary. And the progress that our group will make in this decree will abstain, because as I say, it is not the measures that we want, there is a pot-pot of many things that might not have to be here, nor regulate themselves through decree, but some, therefore, more worth going forward than not blocking it and not pulling it forward. For its band, the Decree llei 12/2021, which extends until '1 October the entry into force of the increase of the tax rate on stays in tourist establishments. We've got a big debate here, and I'll tell you what I'm talking about. Until now the extension was fixed until June 1st. We have already advanced that we will vote in favour of this measure, because we are here to make a responsible policy. It's not the measure we want, but you know I'm a little expert at always sorting out the lesser evil, and so with this ability I have, so we'll vote in favour of this proposal. It's a measure we share, even though we consider it a little ambitious. It may be recalled that this government, in the first instance, approved the increase in the rate of this tax and created the charge for the establishments of the city of Barcelona. What were you thinking? What exactly was the message they wanted to send to the sector in the midst of the pandemic? They didn't try very hard to figure out how, in response to the pandemic, they had to suspend payment revenue. Well, so, here we are and here we debate this suspension as welcome as it is. But you really don't see that the hotel sector is going to triage more than four months to recover its pre-pandemic activity level? Do they really believe that in four months it will be solved? Administrations have subdued them over the past year to restrictions of activities that have entailed the shutdown of thousands of establishments, and this situation cannot be reversed in the time set by the Government. We cannot look at the other side, the autonomous tax mark recognizes a wide margin for approval of bonuses, reductions, exemptions. It's time to exercise the competitions. They are complaining, so exercise them with responsibility and make a gesture to a sector that is very, very hasty. You approved the worst assumptions at the worst time. It was more important for you to approve assumptions than to approve good assumptions adjusted to the harsh economic reality that we all see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.218.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for Junts for Catalonia, Mr.Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.219.0	Thank you, President. Economics advisor, welcome and good work, we wish you. Councillor Geis, also, therefore, good work, and all the members of the new Government, who are not here now, but we also wish them a good government, with our support, of our parliamentary group. Well, here we have, so, a validation of some of your laws. Here we have seen the debate as it has not gone from band to band, according to the group that intervened. In any case, I would also like to point out that we are not making any decrees that the economy of the country should be saved or that the economic sectors of the country should be debated. They are decrees made for a functioning government, with an exceptional situation, and that they must take steps as the months progress, and that the situation of covid, obviously unpredictable, therefore, forced the government to make decisions. Some of them, in this exceptional state that is living, and with a functioning government, deserve this procedure, the law decree, as the only formula after being validated here in Parliament. Therefore, they are measures to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. Obviously they are not the panacea to change neither the model of society nor the economic model, what time will we have to do it and, therefore, with the new government this will also work on a new vision, and the new post-pandemic vision, the new vision of these expected European foundations and this mobilization of resources and, therefore, I suppose we will have time to talk about the different economic sectors, huh? , as some groups have certainly wanted to focus their debate on this issue. Anyway, I'll do a brush, too. Mr Ordeig, of the PSC..., seems that the thing does not go for them, it seems that they do not govern the Spanish State, it seems that they do not remember what we always remember, these from 13,000 to 16,000_million that leave every year and do not return. The State collects 95_percent of the taxes in Catalonia and Catalonia in only 5_per_cent, and this 5_per_cent is based on similar taxes, as some of them today, with this law decree, so we correct or modify. We only receive 5 per cent. Surely, if there were no such fiscal deficit, perhaps we should ask ourselves, the groups that we have been supporting the previous government and this: would we create taxes, the government of Catalonia? Surely not, or surely some – the tourist tax exists in many countries of the world –, to correct, therefore, some environmental effects or some negative effects, which is said, or help, for example, in tourism marketing, etcetera. But surely we would not have to imagine some formula of financial imagination from the previous governments, to create some pre-tax formulas so that we could have taxes so that we could give our own liquidity and, therefore, depend less on a state that does not only oppress us fiscally, but then, at the time that they return in the form of liquid money, this state also makes the snoring, makes the snoring, because these money comes late, many times, even more, with debt respect for the same state, that after they return to interest, and other times also in a way that the State does not return in the form of reversal to our country when it touches it, for example, the lack of investment. We've talked about Renfe, we can talk about Adif, and I can talk with a good knowledge of cause, like the user of R3, right? And, therefore, in this sense the investment deficit is terrible. Therefore, surely, in a different scene, we would not even talk about tributes, like those that we are trying to modify, because it would be different, and so we could also speak differently if our country has the capacity to resort, for example, to external debt financing operations that the State does not leave us. Or during the past few years he has not let us resort to generating greater deficit to generate greater reversal, reversal that would stimulate the economy until this past year, which he has let us do, but the previous years have not. Therefore, I think that here what we have seen these past years is this, I would finance engineering to manage – I said earlier in the legislature – sometimes to manage the misery in which we are left to assume. And, therefore, with this we must give first-rate services to seven million inhabitants of our country, who, in addition, in the past few years, have increased in demand for services and services, school needs, social needs, for aging, for example, or health needs, and resources do not grow in the same proportion. And, for example, some should remember, so, the difficulties we had to square the presuppost 2020, when we were in summer 2019, or, for example, the vice president's boxing and the economic advisor, because the money didn't just square to finish coming in at the end of the year, did it? There was also talk of tourism. Mrs. Reguant also wanted to focus on the theme, the theme of tourism. I think he's done it with a little sloppy and very much focused on the rental sector. I think tourism is a lot more than that, it's the sector that brings the 12_percent direct of GDP to our country, with a 14_percent occupation, and that wants to reduce tourism to a visit of some people who shut down the industry to create a hotel, I think it's a very reductionist one. Tourism is so much more than that. I can also speak to him with knowledge of the cause of a Pyrenean region with many hotel establishments, almost most of them family, with people who do in some cases..., this year we celebrate, in the case of the region to the Ripollès, two centenaries, of two establishments with a very long family vocation, but it is not only a vocation to work and generate money: it is a vocation to be amphithiones, to teach the territory, to teach the best they have at their hosts, who are invited hosts, friends. So, I think this vision that he's made of us is a bit of a reductionist. And we could agree with other things, we could agree that it's a sector with wages that isn't enough suited to today's society, but it's not a sector that's the only one, is it? We could extend this to other sectors: head spinning or, for example, the treatment sector, which we have also seen and which has emerged from this pandemic, or the primary sector, with prices of products that are not sufficient for the farmer or the branch, or the net sector or others. And we could agree that we must work to have a country not only in the tourism sector but in other sectors, of greater added value, of quality, with wages and decent contracts, deseasonalized and more internationally. And that's what it's all about. And with Mrs. Regan we could also agree that she has to bet on an industrial model. Also, we agree. And, as you know, with the National Pact for Industry, there is a commitment to redraft it for the proper years. And also speaking of tourism, as Mrs. Reguant said, that I believe that it has made this much simpler reduction of tourism, but tourism is much more, tourism is activities of rivers, seas, air, mountains; they are llogers, vehicle llogers, bicycle llogers, boat llogers; they are transports – buses, planes, ships–; they are events, they are heritage, museums, natural heritage, natural parks, heritage elements, they are guides, agencies, it is gastronomy, restoration, it is also the oci, it is the enotourism... Therefore, we could talk about many and many branches of a key sector for our country and, therefore, I do not think we can condemn it with this obvious view for this sector. Let's go back to the decree, which is what we focus on. So, the decree that touches on two tourism themes, as we say, one, put this tax charge back on the tourist tax, which we also remember that on two occasions it has postponed the recovery of the previous liquidation and of the self-liquidation, huh? And in this case what's done is to postpone the liquidation that this June 1st was to come, huh? and, therefore, it is postponed that this increase comes into force. The following themes have already been discussed. There is also the topic of water consumption in tourist establishments. Obviously, it is more logical than if they had a minimum rate on which water consumption is based by the Catalan Water Agency. Therefore, these establishments which for a long time have either been closed down or with a minimum activity, have more..., I think it is logical that this change should therefore be proposed, and so that, so to speak, it should be homogenized in the basic water consumption of the other sectors of industry and therefore not in the sector they had applied, right? In this case – this has not been said before – the import on the recapitation is about 33_million euros, if I am not mistaken, on this issue. No, that's the theme... I'm sorry, it's the theme of recreational machines. Water is about €513,000, huh? Why didn't these guys say so before, huh? Also the subject of sanctions derived from the covid. So he's been thinking about it, too. So, here was a compromise, a compromise from the former councillor, Councillor Buch, with the municipalist entities, huh? From this effort that we have made – and I also put myself in the first person as the mayor of a people – to fight, by foresight, to try that the citizenry, in this difficult situation, therefore completed the basic norms of coexistence. Therefore, it has a crippling logic, therefore, that the resources generated, in turn..., in this case we are talking about some 350,000_euros, come back to the joints that have contributed to this control of this exceptional situation of the pandemic. In this case, this would correspond to some 133 meetings. To the sector, as we say, recreational, which also affects many establishments that have had to suffer from compulsory or partial shutdown, in this case the reduction in recapitulation is estimated at 33_million euros. I think it's also important that we put in some checks that we're valid for today, that we're more or less agreeable. In the end, we'll have to stop..., or else we won't have them, we won't have them, and so we'll have to do this financial engineering too, huh? , to be able to face the situation. And that's it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.220.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Josep Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.221.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, very late everyone. In any case, as all the companies and companies that preceded me in the use of the word have done, I would also especially like to greet the Councillor, the new Councillor of Economy. Today is the first plenary that can participate as a member of the new Government of Catalonia, and I wish you, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, a lot of luck and lots of interests in your pocket. You know, counselor, that Republican Left we are part of the Government of Catalonia, you know perfectly well. Therefore, our role is to be there at their side, to be on the side of the government, to work loyally, and especially in a department where we feel very compromised, as is what you are leading at this time. And we've got it on the side, and we've got it on the side, and we've got it on the side, and we've got it on the side, and we've got it on the side, and we've got it on the side, We will try to extend it with care and institutional respect. And above all it will have us at its side to face the enormous challenges that the country and Catalan society must take on immediately, and especially during the next few years. We will, in the first place, recover everything that we have lost during this pandemic, and we will have to do so, as has already been done since 2020 and at this time it generates consensus in all international economic institutions, from expansionary economic policies. And we'll be able to recover the levels of time not before the pandemic but before the 2008 crisis – the latest data is getting better. And we will also need to recover the fall of the gross domestic product, which passed the year up to '11.4_per_cent– the first quarter did not give positive figures. But above all, as has also been expressed in some interventions, we will be able to face the structural challenges that clearly this pandemic situation has posed more than ever before. The Department of Economics and History will play an important role in managing European foundations, as was done during the previous parliamentary term. It is a fundamental challenge, that we must not only allow ourselves to face the fate of the pandemic but also to be able to bring industrial policy to our country and, ultimately, industrial policy to Europe, which allows us to reorient the situation and the foundations of our society and our economy to a more resilient and sustainable situation. We also expect, for another band, to follow a good continuation of the compromise demonstrated by the Department of Economy and History in previous exercises, with a responsible management, a strict management of the finances and of the budgetary management and assets of this house. And as I hope we can also..., go may hold important debates and tasks in the field of taxation and tax collection, which, as has been shown in some of the interventions may be in future plenary sessions; the tax area is one of the elements that generates the most passionate debates in this parliamentary chamber. And you will see that at the same time as those in Madrid who govern and carry out reforms that at the maximum they arrive are pushing 0.18 per cent of gross domestic product to the assumptions of 2020, 2,000 million euros, 0.18 per cent of gross domestic product of the joint venture of the State, while, at the same time, here, everything that is driven by ambitious fiscal policies seems to be always qualified as a few ambitious; while, at the same time, President Sánchez announces the Spain 2050 strategy, that it creates a homogenization of tax and fiscal pressure in the Spanish State and puts it at the level of the rest of the euro area countries. But it is for thirty years; that is what is said to be a transformative ambition, a compromise and a progressive taxation, but 20 years from now. That said, and going into the matter, today we are proposing to validate a couple of decrees that come from the management of the previous government, as has been stated, two decrees that regulate a whole set of fiscal, tax, administrative and financial measures to help some economic sectors to respond to some of the consequences of the health crisis that we are experiencing. And I specify "some, because, since the March of last year, here we have validated fifty decrees that the government had previously approved. And each of them has pushed sectoral measures to try to give partial answers. And I would like to have a more general view of what is the aggregate of all the contributions that have brought to fruition this set of fifty decrees. Each of these decrees has not transformed the Catalan society, each of them has not responded to the pandemic situation, but all aggregates have made a very important contribution because the pandemic situation was more light and more digestible to most of our society. Therefore, I will not go into the detail because it seems to me that Congressman Munell and his own adviser have done so and have done so in a very precise and very concrete way. In any case, allow me to make this global view and put into value this agility, this flexibility, this week-to-week response, execute, analyzing the needs and problems that at each time generated a pandemic that was not planned, a pandemic that was not planned and that was given an agile and rapid response to the new needs that were produced. All in all, in an aggregate way, brings us to the fact that last year the Government of the Government of Catalonia increases its expenditure not to be financed by 19_per_cent– by 19_per_cent–, 3,638_million euros more economic resources to meet the needs caused by the pandemic, with a drop in revenues of 1,123_million euros in the year 2020. The Government has put all the resources it could to deal with this situation and proof of this is the fact that 206 measures, which the Government of the Government of the Generalita has approved week by week to help the economic sectors of our country, have made themselves available to entrepreneurs, pymes and autonomists, workers, sectors of culture, sectors of the oci, also to help improve areas of social character. It has made available 1,780_million euros, the triple that the second autonomous community, which is the Valencia Country, and six times more than autonomous communities like Madrid. The Government of Catalonia has done what it had to do, which was to take strict measures and at the same time help those sectors that are affected by the crisis. And the consequences we see at these times, when we already have a very controlled pandemic situation and a situation of the economy that is beginning to recover. Calien, surely, more resources – company Munell was also commenting on it –, more resources are increasing, but the Government of the Generality has made the efforts that it has made. And, unfortunately, as we have repeated in this chamber on various occasions and the reports of the European Central Bank thus testify, which less resources, which less direct help has posed from the table of the joint European states has been the Spanish State. Therefore, the Government of Catalonia has done what it played. Those who could not have done what was in their hands. In any case, we are certainly finishing this long series of fifty decrees. We will certainly still have to debate some more in the future sessions of this Parliament, because the health crisis is in its final stages, but the economic and social crisis is certainly not yet. And, in any case and in contradiction with some of the interventions that have been completed, the Government of Catalonia must continue to do what it touches, adopting decrees, week by week, because it is from all the articles that form part of these decrees, from all the dispositions that form part of these decrees, that we have allowed us to give an answer as to how to govern, with the collaboration of this Parliament, a response to the agile, global, rigorous, ambitious and coherent crisis. A response, for another group, of a high efficiency, but also of a very important social sensitivity. And, in any case, we hope to continue this way; we hope to continue to manifest this social sensitivity, that is to be on the side of the citizenry every week to try, through the decrees, to help the people who are most aware of the consequences of this economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.222.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us, therefore, vote on the validation of Decree Law 11/2021. [[Long break.]] Now. We had a problem with the system; we already have it. The vote begins. The result was 64 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 41 abstentions. Given, therefore, the result of the vote, the Decree Law 11/2021_has been validated. According to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, however, a valid copy of this decree I ask the Chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants this decree to be passed as a bill of law. [[Pause.]] Yeah? So this petition of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, we will have to vote in favour of processing as decreed by law. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's not going, it's not going. Yeah, it's just that this isn't... now. The vote begins. With an 8-vote result, 109 negative votes and 17 abstentions, it will not be dealt with as the bill of law passed by us. We will continue to vote on the validation of Decree Law 12/2021. The vote begins. With 67 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 39 abstentions, Decree 12/2021_is validated. I, in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, also ask the Chamber whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to be treated as draft law. [[Pause.]] As the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning so demands, let's do the vote again for whether it's handled as a bill. The vote begins. With 15 votes in favour, 108 votes against and 11 abstentions, Decree 12/2021 will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Proposal for a resolution on the change in the name of legislature]] [[250-00068/13]] I would then touch the item on the agenda of the debate and vote on this decree which we jointly supported and voted on with item 5. Therefore, the item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the change in the name of the legislature. This proposal was presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win and the Parliamentary Group of In Common We can. Therefore, in order to present this initiative, we will start the debate with the proposed parliamentary groups on a single two-minute intervention period for each parliamentary group. So, in the first place, there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy, Mr Francesc de Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.223.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, two previous, if I may, for the first time and the times you need: we are Catalan school, we defend the Catalan school run by the Catalan Countries and, especially, in Northern Catalonia. And, as we said to Perpiny, "Today and tomorrow the school in català. Indeed, estimates and estimates: no Catalans. And the second, from this rostrum, is a touch of alarm and alarm against attacks on LGBTBI+ people that are produced in a way that grows from the Catalan Countries, from Alacant to Barcelona – in plain mention this morning – the terrible aggression that suffered two pairs to the plaza of the Somorrostro. We attend a sequence of events that cannot take place in our society because they are not part of the national project we have and want, which is a vital project, which is a project for life. Therefore, all the support for victims and all the determination of this chamber to fight homophobia, and the complicity of the Group of Joints for Catalonia. On the motion for a resolution that concerns us, first of all, thanks to the Commission of the Dignity, without organised civil society, once more, this country would have less passed, a more difficult present and an uncertain future. And, therefore, many thanks, because they were, through Pep Cruanyes, who made this proposal to the President of Parliament. And it was President Borràs, April 14th, the act that we did, precisely, to the floor of the library of this building, which was transferred to all present. And we were the groups in Comú Pueblo, the CUP, the Esquerra and the Juntas that collected the glove and today we will make this act of dignity and historical justice possible. Because one of the differences between governments and parliaments in democracy and those governments, those parliaments that do not believe in democratic principles is the fact of practicing historical revisionism or historical memory. The first, revisionisme, is used to being negacionisme on the part of the winners. And the second one talks, precisely, about how to avoid this negationism and seek and hold the historical facts. From this perspective, today's proposal has no more history than its own history if it was not that history some have wanted to erase it. And the story is this, and it's that December 6, 1932, was the Parliament of Catalonia after the elections that had taken place on November 20. That was the first contemporary legislature of the Parliament of Catalonia, effectively interrupted in Catalonia for the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship. But those Republican courts worked in exile. In fact, they held four different presidents. That is to say, the Generality recovered for President Macia is the one that gives historical continuity to this government and this Parliament that we have now. What we're doing today is not a symbolic act, it's an act of historical justice, of historical memory. Of recognition to the president, the deputies, the militants and the fighters who defended that Generality and that Parliament, therefore, that democratic legality. The coup d'état francquista, the most explicit and latent fascism, the restoration of the monarchy by the 78th rule, by the dictator, have as their objective to erase this memory, to make disappear these struggles and these names. That's why I insist, what we're doing today is not a symbolic act, it's an act of historical justice. We are heresmen of a tradition of governance that begins in the 13th century with the Catalan Courts and ends in the 18th century with the fateful 1714. But it is that before these courts there already existed at the beginning of the millennium the assemblies of fear and darkness which, since 1021, had the faculty, after parliament, to stop wars and violent acts. We are what we have been and it is only from the recognition of our past that we can interpret our present and push us forward. And remembering this past and making it present is also remembering Macia calling on the saddest day of her life, the day she has to sort between republic and generality, and tria generality. And we're not here to judge Macia's inner circle or disincentive, the 122nd president in that tria. But we are to give continuity to his political arrival and his national yearnings, because President Macia proclaims the Catalan Republic as an integral state of a virtual Iberian federation, and it is when he negotiates with the end of proclaiming the Spanish Republic, and before the threats he rep, which lowers the act of sovereignty and accepts the recognition of the differentiated personality of Catalonia in the Spanish mark. And what's this deal? Who's this sunny deal? Retrieve the Government of Catalonia, the institution abolished two centuries before by Philip V with the Decree of New Plant. But when he has to sort, I insist, the President says that it is the saddest day of his life, but I also determined not to cease in the political compromise for the Catalan Republic, as President Benach well remembered, in a magnificent writing of the year 2009. Now what we're doing is incorporating all this political determination and all this stuff into our Parliament today. They recognize that legislature, we recognize the Catalan society that made it possible with their vote, we recognize the legitimacy of all the people who occupied the corners of that first legislature of that chamber – of that chamber, for sure. And as important as this: let us give the franchise and its heretics that their effort to erase a part of our history is in vain, let us draw up minutes and do so in this plenary. I finish, if I may, by reading two paragraphs of President Macia's speech of 6 September 1932, when the official and solemn opening of the Parliament of Catalonia takes place. President Macià said: "I am the free will of the country, I am, honourable Members, all Catalonia in a short time. Think that we take back the story of a righteous people who are not bound, of a people who did not want kings, but princes, who were the first among the equals, elected by the city that were right to be free. We are, by the unanimous will of the people, in the authentic path of the liberties of Catalonia. Let's lean on starting it before the ashtray and they couldn't get it. Let's make it one of the largest and most secure. We don't take a false step and never go back. That brings us where the color tells us he wants to go Catalonia. We also give to all the peoples of the world that we are willing to go to the side of the conquest of all these ideals of freedom and justice, and above all of peace. We would like the city of Barcelona to be the city of the pau, of the world, and we are willing to do everything possible so that this is the case. We honour this Catalan Parliament, which in giving us our laws will be the driving force behind Catalan freedoms. So, what we're doing today is not a symbolic act, it's an act of historical justice. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.224.0	Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Ms. Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.225.0	Thank you, President. And it's an honor... I think I still haven't had the opportunity to address you with these words and from this window, so thank you President Borrás. This is not the first plenary of this legislature, but it is the first plenary with a new republican government. The last president of the republic chosen for this Parliament was President Lluís Companys, fused by fascism. Eighty-six years after the Plethora of this Parliament once again proclaimed a republican president with the investiture of Pere Aragonès. From this investiture in a new Republican Generality; it is the first time that since the Republican Left of Catalonia is leading the Presidency of the Generality since the restoration of the institution on 77th, in the figure of another Republican President, Josep Tarradellas. This new Republican Generality, the president and the groups that we support, we are very clear: it is the legacy of the Republican Generality of Macia and Companies, it is the continuing desire of the kingly thread of social and national struggle that violence and fessistic repression and democracy have been unable to escape. The new Republican Generalitat that we want is not an empty adjective, but a living continuation of the social and national political ambition that shaken Catalan politics in the thirties. Today, as yesterday, the danger of fascism is present and today we are also fighting, with more right and more freedom, with policies that alleviate the most vulnerable citizenry's suffering, empowering the most helpless and ensuring that everyone has all the freedom and resources to undertake their new vital project. We cannot be more satisfied that, in the first Ple of this new republican government, the Parliament of Catalonia also makes a recognition to the Republican legislature of 1932, establishing it as clearly prior to and first legislature of this Parliament. It is a recognition that goes to reinforce what already exists: the letter in which the last President of the Parliament in exile, Francesc Farreras, renounced the mandate and recognized the restored institution and its new President, Heribert Barrera; the letter that went forward as President to President and that today still symbolizes this republican continuity. Nor is it the first explicit recognition that this republican continuity is made in this Parliament: in 2016, President Forcadell paid tribute to the deputies and workers of the Parliament of Catalonia who were victims of the Franco regime. President Forcadell complimented the ple's mandate that on October 1, 1937, she agreed to place an inscription in the session hall in honour of her memory, after they were assassinated for fascism on July 19, 36. He decided that today we take Parliament in historical and institutional equality with the Government of the Generality. We are aware – and here we may differ a little – that what we are doing today is a symbolic recognition, but felt, of this first Republican legislature. The recognition would have been good in 1980 – but I think that with Mr. Dalmases, in the background, we agree on what we want to express. If you want to go beyond symbolism, this Parliament still has work to do. We must claim the historical memory of that first republican legislature. Reconnaissance and reparation are two essential pots of the claim of the historical memory and of the first Republican legislature of the Parliament of Catalonia. To the recognition and recovery double we need to add context and revision. The Republic was a national, social and also feminist sack. There is a link between the republican and free women who pushed the country forward in the thirties – the first mayor of Catalonia, Natividad Yarza; the directors who ran from Catalonia jumped into the public arena to lead and build, and the militias who resisted fascism – and the women who are advancing today, this link that unites us and is always constant in this feminist revolution, taught by the new republican government, the first government that has a council of Equality and Feminisms. This was not the case, however, with a Parliament in Catalonia which, in its first Republican legislature, did not have a deputy. It's also important to recognize it and know how to explain it. You've made a necessary gesture, imperative. And it could not end in another way, without remembering the words of our esteemed President Forcadell, who reminded us of our obligation to remember, our duty not to forget, because, as she said to us, "To forget does not give. Oblivion is giving little so the horror can repeat itself. For this very reason, remembering is making history, but it is also working for the present and the future, which is what we try to do every day in this room. The institution is trying, with the effort and commitment of many people. All the workers in the chamber and all the representatives of the people of Catalonia are working for a country that is fairer and more free, compromises with poverty, democracy and human rights, and this requires not to be forgotten. Carme Forcadell. And today I'm taking advantage of these last three minutes, because it's time to take me from this room. Today's my last full. It's... 2015, isn't it? , came to the political world from a totally different background. I must be grateful that it has been a unique experience, unforgivable, especially for what we have lived for. I think we've lived through all the transformation of a country, in a way of hearing the citizenry. And we've shared it among all of them, they've been moments of many emotions and I think I'm getting on with a great record. And it's that you've got friends of a great cycle and friends of all political colors, because with everyone it's been easy to build when we find what to fight for. Thank you, Republican Left, for the confidence, to be always there, to work as it is, to keep this illusion always in the eyes. And thank you to the whole room, because it was a journey that personally allowed me to grow up. I would also like to speak as the Vice-President of the Parliament and extend to the whole chamber something that I have experienced and that I was unaware of. And I'd invite all the deputies and deputies to make an effort to get to know this chamber. We don't know her very much. It is a room where we have a lot and a lot of people in our service or which helps us to walk with quality, from the linguistic services, the letters, the Department of Infrastructures, the Department of Communication... I've had the great luck of finding out all this, which is behind me. And I've found people who value the chamber. I have found people who have been working at this institution for a long time, but who are not comfortable, that every time we have sat on a table to talk and to work, illusion, they shine the eyes of those projects that could grow this room in all spheres. I encourage you, because I, humbly, have some of these aspects that I disenfranchised, and I think it would even be our obligation to know and recognize. Therefore, many thanks to all, because they have been two months and a million to learn a lot. And thank you, starting with the uixers, who accompany us and make it easy for us, even the secretary general, who makes all this work. The day you pick up the car from Girona, like today, and you know that you're coming to Parliament and you know that it's the last plenary, things look different, because it's a day when a lot of records go through your mind and the lot is that a lot of them are very good and they're good because they've been shared with a lot of people. And I'd like to welcome myself with a few words from the esteemed Raül Romeva, who in principle is with the person I started this way with. He reminds us very often that we face the future with the high head, the long gaze, the verb will be, the open color and the broad hand. If we do that, we'll have a very rich country that really represents us all. So we're-there, people, always coming forward, we're still working and we need everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.226.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - A New Cycle to Win, the deputy and secretaries Pau Juvillà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.227.0	First of all, as my predecessor has done, I think it's just, like, a recognition to the Dignity Commission, it's a commission, a necessary organization, and it's made this proposal today that we're debating. Thanks to these organizations, so they also allow us to move forward in the national sphere and, therefore, I think it is fair to do this thank you. Deia, the 6th of September: "I am pleased to greet you, honourable Members of Catalonia, among these walls that fate has wanted them to be just the same as the usurper of our freedoms who has risen to bring down Catalonia. Thus, on 6 September 1932 at three quarters of four and five minutes late, the constitution of the Parliament of Catalonia resulted from the elections of 20 November of the same year. « Parliament of Catalonia, working 'tde bat a bat to the afanys and aspirations, to the illusions of the Catalans, stated Macia in his speech. And he adds: "We honor this Catalan Parliament, which, by giving us our laws, will be the driving force behind Catalan freedoms. From that 6th of September, 1932 to '1st of October, 1938, the later session before a long mass parentheses, with a final agreement of resistance and hope which he gave: "The Presidency, gathering patriotic words from the President of Catalonia and also taking into account the suggestions made by some honourable Members, proposes to the chamber that they agree to appoint a commission so that it goes to the front to greet all the fighters. The disembarkation of that year's fascism would cross the Ebra and the genera of the next year would enter with their tanks for the advent of the Diagonal of Barcelona, annihilating our right collections, prohibiting our language, annihilating and extinguishing our institutions, also this Parliament, converting it into a barracks with the will to erase any record. But they didn't get out – they didn't get out –, Companies, captured by the Gestapo and sunk by the Francoism, brought Parliament's flame to Northern Catalonia and gave it to Josep Irla, the only contemporary president who died without being able to climb Catalonia again, as he said, « vell, malalt and poor. And this is the cedia to Tarradellas. Thus, despite the repression of the Francoism, the Parliament, thanks to the toxicology and the heart of the exiles, was able to survive and on April 1, 1980 the Parliament was constituted again. The presidency of the State, in the voice of Josep Maria Poblet, one past and present, said: "For this reason you must understand the emotion that I feel, not comparable to any other, at the time of opening this assembly, because I cannot forget that it will soon be forty-eight years ago to inaugurate the most illustrious of Catalans in time, Francesc Macia. Nor can I leave out other figures who, among the walls of this old city, have had a prominent role, before which to place the personality of Lluís Companies, fused by the enemies of Catalonia, from which it happened in a few hours of disarray, Josep Irla, and I don't need it, Josep Tarradellas. A parliament that was held in spite of the application of Article 155 by a demophobic state, in a fact that implied a clear case of imposition of the state raison d'être over the democratic raison d'état and the will to win with institutional violence where the political defense parties of the State had lost at the polls. We give – the CUP – to our conclusions in the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry on the Application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia, driven by this very Parliament............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And despite everything – and despite everything – with political prisoners and prisoners, with exiles and exiles, with more than three-thousand people who have suffered repression, today we return to occupy this hemisphere. I'd say Montserrat Roig if there's an act of love, that's the memory. And today we are here to end an act of love, yes, but also an act of justice and an act of reparation and restitution, to retrace our story as it was born, of which this Parliament is one more piece. Because there is a royal thread that connects us, that connects us as a born that is open, plural, diverse and permeable, of which this Parliament – the Parliament in which we are today – is not indispensable, an indestriable piece in the construction of the Catalan Countries, from Fraga to Maó and from Salses to Guardamar. And it is this justice that calls upon us, which requires, among others, recognition, responsibility and reparation. Repair in the form of restitution, as in terms of historical memory: the return to the situation prior to the violation of rights. That is why we must unite that Generality of 1932 with what we have today, because we are one and the same institution, because there is an obvious historical continuity and because doing so – do it – is also demanding Macia, Companies, Irla and all those who worked, have worked and worked for the national advance and the social advancement of our people. Deia Macia, as previously recalled, in that session of constitution almost ninety years ago that we are, by the unanimous will of the people, in the authentic path of the liberties of Catalonia. We've made it possible for this fourteen-year term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.228.0	And then, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, the deputy Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.229.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors... a hug to Congresswoman Caula, it's not now, but anyway... [[The timer laughs.]] Well, this is a motion for a resolution that we think you felt debated today because we are at the heart of the legislature, but as Mrs Caula rightly pointed out, surely you would have felt that you were doing it in the year 80. But in any case, we want to thank the opportunity, we want to thank the Commission of the Dignity for the initiative and also President Borràs for having rejected the initiative. And, therefore, we celebrate being able to do so from an agreement with different groups in the chamber. It is a proposal, as has been said, that they intend to address a question of historical justice, but that is not the least felt at the moment. In fact, in the face of a political conflict like the one we are living in, which is a conflict that revolves around sovereignty, so it has all the meaning of the world. And, precisely, because it is a question around sovereignty, I think it connects with the main problems, with the main demands of today's Catalonia, because in a global world where the main problems like the pandemic, such as the climate emergency, such as the poor, such as inequalities, so they have a distinctly local naturality, but they impact completely and in a differentiated way at local and regional level, and require specific responses to each territory; therefore, you have felt thinking about how we articulate the different sovereignities. And, moreover, in a context, at a time when the citizenry claims to be a part of collective decisions and it is clear that Catalonia has expressed more than ever its willingness to self-governance. So, in this context, the proposal that is being brought here today is felt in the debate on sovereignty, isn't it? , on who makes the decisions, on how to manage the resources collected, on how to articulate the different scales of government. Or do we think that the ability to respond to a pandemic crisis that we have experienced, to make decisions with the political community that we are, or to provide us with sufficient public resources to bring about it is not a question of sovereignty? Or is it not a question of sovereignty to guarantee the right to housing, to guarantee public water management or to decide the energy model or airport model? But well, before returning the strong feeling that I think you have this proposal, I would like to do some more on historical justice, also reading the papers that the Ciutadans Group has presented. Mirin, that the current Parliament is king for the Constitution of 78 and the Statute of 2006 detailed in 2010, we believe that it is not incompatible with the recognition of the historical thread of this institution. And we believe that it is a fact and not an opinion, therefore, that the recovery of the Generality in 1977 was prior to the Constitution of 78. In fact, who called the elections to Parliament on March 1980 was President Tarradellas, not another, and did so through a decree published to the DOGC and also published to the BOE. Therefore, the historical thread exists and this is not an opinion, this is a fact. And beyond the fact of the numbering of the legislature, which we can discuss, some arguments that are raised in Ciutadans's emena..., right? That Mr Aragones should not be considered the 132nd president, but the 11th president, but in change, they have no problem giving continuity to the Bourbon monarchy, do they not? So... [[applause]] Let's apply this to the second we hear it. But, well, it said that beyond the numbering of the legislatures, the change we are proposing today is just to avoid reinterpretations of history as it often happens that some groups that self-identify constitutionalists are accustomed to us. Certainly, defenders of a constitution, that of the 78, that it is evident that it has evolved in a recentizing claus and that today clearly – and we cannot deny it – constrain the will, like a shirt of force, and the longings of sovereignty of a great majority of the people and of the citizens of Catalonia. This constitutional mark doesn't work for us. Cal get over it, we don't have to be conscious. We can't hear the constitutional mark in force as a chain from which you can't get out. There are new solutions, more imaginative solutions, and therefore, to hear Parliament and the Generality from its historical perspective believe that it opens just new opportunities for transformation, new opportunities for brands are possible. And this also brings me to the need to recover the thread of the history of the Republican Generality, that of the Catalan Republic in the mark of an Iberian federation proclaimed for President Macia on April 14, 31st. And that of the Catalan State in a Spanish federal republic formulated for President Companies on October 6, 34. Because that's what Macia and Companies proclaimed. Two proclamations that clearly claim, from the sobriety of Catalonia, to be the engine of change to make a different Spanish. We don't forget, either. And this formula that they put in for us was not new. As Xavier Domènech explains in his latest book, this formula materialized, right? , or has already materialized in the failed draft constitution of the First Republic of 1873, certainly, presided over by a català, for Francesc Pi and Margall. I refer not only to a new question of historical justice, but also to the Generality's restoration process with the Second Republic, which also makes it retrospective to the Democratic Sexenni and to the subsequent Bourbon restoration. But I am referring to it because that is a time that expresses a whole series of unresolved conflicts today, but also because the formula that Macia and Companies put before us and which is expressed in the draft constitution of the First Republic of 1873, I believe that it should be considered, also today, as a possible solution to the current political conflict. And the key to this formula, unlike the Constitution of 78, is in the principle of equality between territories that decide to be federated, and not in the principle of hierarchy. That draft Constitution of 1873 recognized the existence of various states, so it recognized Spain as a plurinational state and articulated sovereignty at different scales. It's the idea that after Valentí Almiral would recover when referring to the federal state as a composite state, formed by various sovereign states, are the sovereignty of these the original and that of the federal state the delegate. A morning's not less important. And, in fact, it is under this look of equality and not of hierarchy that I take the right to self-determination, a right that at the present time, it is true, the Spanish State is denied to recognize, engaging precisely in the logic of hierarchy. And it is precisely for this reason that it is again felt to regain connection with the Second Republic, because in the Pact of Sant Sebastià that gives place to the process of which the Second Republic was born, there was an essential element that was that Spanish republicanism recognized the right to self-determination. And it is the Pact of Sant Sebastià, signed for Francesc Macia and for Niceto Alcalá-Zamora that marks the beginning of this Second Republic. It's true that after all we know how the story evolved, but we don't forget, either, where we come from. In short, I believe that behind this motion for a resolution, which is a question of historical justice, as has been pointed out, there is also a claim and recognition of a conductor wire that must allow us, right? Therefore, put in value the Catalan institutions and above all put in value what they represent, which is nothing but the will to self-govern us. And with this I end: I think that this historical thread must always make us respect and value our institutions, and sometimes I have the feeling that it has not been so. So we don't lose sight of it. And I also have to tell you that, precisely for this historic son, I hope that today's Catalonian Government is always serving the best of self-government, that it is with the best of funding, whether it is claiming new skills or fighting for the armoring of the skills that we already have, because all this is also gaining sovereignty and also connecting with the 1932 Republican Parliament. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.230.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Parés. Now, then, to position himself on the papers presented, has the words of Mr. Ignacio Martín, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.231.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, first of all, in the first place, I want to express my escalph and my sympathy for the words that Mrs Anna Caula has just spoken, Mrs Caula, because it is really a joy to be able to maintain a cordial, kind and polite relationship, always correct and respectful, with a person with whom you differ in many aspects, from the ideological point of view, from the point of view of the debate on the national axis, the national anonymity, or the anonymity is ideological. The truth is it's a good thing to have a company like you, Anna, and I want to thank you for this company time here in the Parliament of Catalonia. On the other hand, I want to begin my intervention by making a point of the intervention of Mr. Parés, who made me think precisely of a person who flies over this session, who is the character of Josep Tarradellas. He said that one of the main characteristics of our communists, of the Catalan communists, is that they, more than communists, are nationalists. And precisely his intervention, Mr Parés, as that of other Members of the Comú Pode, and finally all of his partners in Madrid, Podemos............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The fact of trying to establish this change in the numbering of the Parliament of Catalonia, effectively, as we say to our question, is absolutely contradictory to the fact that it is said that Catalonia has or has had one hundred and thirty-two presidents at the length of its history and that it has only thirteen or fourteen legislatures. If we really had to accept this revisionist logic of changing the number 13 to the number 14, we would have to accept that Catalonia logically only had eleven presidents in democratic times, because it is obvious that the pre-republication period, those who come before Macia and the companies, people who obviously have many shadows, seem to us to have many more shadows than they don't... so I think that, if not for consistency and consistency, it would have admitted that it is absolutely ridiculous to say that Catalonia has reached one hundred and thirty presidents across its history. Especially because it is about an institution, that of the General Council of the Crown of Aragó, which has absolutely nothing to do with the Government of Catalonia, which was established – that it did not restore, establish – during the time of the Republic. Certainly, the idea of an Andalús, Mr Fernando de los Ríos, a socialist deputy, who proposed this name for whom the institutions of Catalonia's self-government are working. I'm saying this because I think it's important to know what the historical trajectory of our institutions is. And from this point of view, I believe that this claim to establish this correlation between what was the Republic and the democratic period that began, beginning with, year 78 is a clear claim to deny, to try again, in the measure of its possibilities..., to leave in the wrong place what is our autonomous system, our constitutional state since the year 78, which you call "the 78's rule". So what you call the 78's is a consolidated liberal democracy, regarded throughout the world as one of the most advanced democracies in the world, the most complete of the world, and has absolutely nothing to do with what you present as an oppressive, anti-democratic state, in which there have been political prisoners, etc., but, I insist, is a democracy that is absolutely recognized and with great international prestige. Therefore, trying to link that democratic experiment between year 31 and year 36 of the Republic, to relate it to the current situation, I believe that, if not, it is more than questionable. Certainly, when we speak – and also from the group of In Comú Pode, but also from the rest of the groups – and it is claimed the figure of Lluís Companies, and it is often said that we say that who destroyed the legitimacy of that government republic in the thirties was the coup d'état of the dictator Franco, I want to remember that the first one that put at risk our self-government and that caused, logically, the suspension of the autonomy of Catalonia in the year 34 was precisely the Mr. Companies with his coup against the Republic of October 6, 34, a coup d'état to the Republic, which I want to remember for sure it caused until forty-six deaths and that it had to be suffocated by the forces of order, because it generated terror in the streets of Catalonia. We can't forget the story, we can't fall into the manicism of the story of pretending that some are the good, always good, always good, and the other pains, always painful, always bad. The claim to change this numbering of the legislatures in Catalonia has a clear link with those who claim to present the history of Catalonia as a history of war or confrontation between Catalonia and no longer the rest of Spain but Catalonia and Spain. Of course, we, from Ciutadans, for historical rigor, never fall into this claim to assume this view of the bellicist history between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, or between Catalonia, as a fan of you, and Spain, is to say, as if there were two of us who did not have anything to see. There was no war between Spain and Catalonia, nor good. The miseries, the dark times that our country has suffered together from Spain, have been in many cases involved, as enthusiastically as in other parts of Spain, for Catalans. I would like to recall that General Franco's military uprising was supported by an important part of the people of Catalonia and also by economic elites of Catalonia, as well as other parts of Spain. Just as there have been very brilliant historical moments of our democratic or pre-democratic history, yet in any case proto-democratic, in which, indeed, there have been great men, great intellectual prohoms such as Mr. Francesc Pi and Margall, a well-known philosopher of the world for his theoretical work from the point of view of the analysis of nationalities. And, from this point of view, I believe that this intellectual quality that has been achieved in Catalan politics by people like Francesc Pi and Margall or even all the importance that other Catalans have had in the First Spanish Republic, such as Mr Estanislau Figueras or the same Pi and Margall. I believe that what they claim to be with this initiative is basically back to making a historical revisionism, back to the idea of good against pain, Spain against Catalonia, and I think this is perverse. It really seems to me regrettable that some come up with this kind of initiative that the only thing they do is try to undermine our current democratic order, undermine the prestige of our institutions and undermine the history of Catalonia. The story of Catalonia is very complex; it falls into a manicism, I insist, to present some as santes and others as demons I think does not do us well, for Catalonia and for all Spain. For the rest of Spain, obviously, this speech that I'm doing here right now could be applied in an absolutely coherent way and with the same intensity. You, the very people who present this initiative, are the people who present the Spanish Succession War as a secession war from Catalonia against Spain, as if there were no supporters of the Bourbons and of the Austries here; as if that war had not been a conflict between European powers and not a conflict, as you claim, between Catalonia and Spain. And there are other historical episodes that you directly present them in a spurious way. Present the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera as a dictatorship, once more, of Catalonia against Spain. And I want to remind them of what the historian Shlomo Ben-Ami, a very prestigious man, who I think is not of Belchite, and so let's say that he speaks..., for the supremacy of some, has a page of legitimacy because he is an Israeli man, and what Shlomo Ben-Ami says is that who created the historical climate for the rise of Mr. Primo de Rivera – that at that time, certainly, was a high military authority in Barcelona – was precisely the Catalan bourgeoisie. Therefore, the miseries of the history of Spain, the totalitarianisms, the authoritarianisms that have occurred in Spain are in good measure, for their part aliquot, also the responsibility of the Catalans. Let us stop presenting history with our interests and making historical revisionism by inventing history with each and every one of them. I think it is time to be rigorous, to try in the measure of the possibility to make a parliamentary task that is useful, that is not an absolutely trivial thing, that is not useful for absolutely nothing. And I believe that this historic change and this claim to diminish our presence again, these forty years of coexistence, these forty years of Spanish Constitution, since the year 78, which we have held, with an autonomous regime, with a level of autonomy for Catalonia that did not give birth to other states of the world..., I think it is important that we have much in mind what we have and that we are not all day having an absolutely distorted nostalgia of what is the history of a period like the republic, which we have, remember, lights and shadows. When we talk about Tarradellas, I want to remember what Tarradellas gave to the principles of the Transition, when he said that the one who was creating Jordi Pujol in Catalonia was a mermaid of white dictatorship. Therefore, we remain rigorous with history and stop trying to play magic and historical revisionism, which does not lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.232.0	Thank you very much. Then, finally, the remaining parliamentary groups will have a single turn of intervention of two minutes to position themselves. The word has now been said by the deputy Raúl Moreno, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.233.0	Thank you, President. She will advise, Members, Members... Mrs Caula, we add, on behalf of our entire parliamentary group, to wish them every certainty, to wish them a good way, to thank them for their always predisposition to the dialogue and their personal passion, which they have made, therefore, that our step, their step for this Parliament – we continue to do so – has been a pleasure to share with you, from the political discrepancy, but from the admiration and the personal respect that we must have for all the Members and Members. After a long period of negotiation of formation of the Government, which almost exceeds the deadline to call an election in an automatic way, after more than one year of pandemic, after more than one year also that President Torra donated by the end of the legislature because his Government was broken, after all this we consider that when we return and leave Parliament, the citizenry should try to see that our task is to prioritise those issues that are to be dealt with in his day-to-day, that concern them, that can be the exit of the pandemic, that can be economic recovery, social recovery in order not to let anyone else enter, for the reactivation of the tourism sector, for other issues that are absolutely important and of extraordinary urgency. The independence groups that today sign this motion for a resolution – Esquerra, Juntes per Cat, the CUP – and the philoindependence groups, like the common ones [[remorse of the voice]] Consider of extraordinary urgency a motion for a resolution on the change of the numbering of the legislatures of the Parliament of Catalonia, which, if approved, would pass from the thirtieth legislature to the fourteen, and count them from the first legislature, begun on 6 September 32 during the Second Spanish Republic; the only legislature constituted in a republic that represented a historical period of openness, of conquest of some of the social rights that are still enjoying today, of the feminist revolution, also said here, and that, unfortunately, it was interrupted by a civil war and forty years of a saving dictatorship, of repression, of lack of freedom, of feminism that forced the exile of the Catalan representatives of the Parliament, of the institutions. It is, therefore, about two absolutely different historical periods, the Second Republic, a dictatorship, and, from the Constitution of 78, a third, a parliamentary monarchy, with a large majority of 91_percent Catalans and Catalans. We believe that the signatories of this proposal align the recognition of the republican legislature or even of a continuity of the institution of the Catalan Parliament with the number of the legislature, which has as its main objective to straighten, order, enumerate these differentiated historical periods. In the case of the current numbering of our thirtieth legislature of the Parliament of Catalonia, as in the case of the General Courts, it is the entry into force of the Spanish Constitution of 78 and the Statute of Autonomy of 79. It is the very Statute of Sau, which speaks in its preamble of the process of recovering democratic freedoms, that the people of Catalonia recover their institutions of self-government by referring, in effect, to the recovery of institutions in a new period, in a new period, as it was since the constituent session of this Parliament in 1980. That was our first parliamentary term, which opened a new time for Spain and Catalonia to recover its institutions, the longer period of time and progress of our country, the construction of democratic institutions, the consolidation of a welfare state, the recognition of the plurality of freedoms, the harmony and integration into the European project. Forty-two years we carry in this period with all the difficulties, but also with all the opportunities of an imperfect democratic system, like all the systems, but today Spain and, therefore, Catalonia are part of a consolidated democracy, a state of right of the world's most advanced and one of the world's most freer and secure countries. And it's not a particular success. It is not the success of one party or another, it is a collective success that needs to be put into value. And being able to defend or not this later period does not endanger the existence or oblivion of other legislatures in other historical periods both in Catalonia and in the rest of Spain. Only that the numbering hint in other periods would respond to a different historical moment or constitutional_mark. In addition, in the case we are dealing with, we are talking about two constitutional landmarks separated by forty years of dictatorship that can't be forgotten, if that's what it is to recover and claim historical memory. But this motion for a resolution, for many times that it is intended to be given, for many historical justifications that it is intended to provide, does not claim the historical memory nor only the Catalan institutions interrupted by the Civil War. Under our point of view, this motion for a resolution is a further example of the desirability of independence to adapt history to its political relationship. It's not the first time they've made it, and in fact, we're not used to it anymore. A little more than fifteen days ago, we came across the 132nd President of the Generality, behind a long list of Presidents of the Generality, the result of a historical interpretation that recovered Jordi Pujol with whom he built a political and historiographical discourse that still persists in our time. The reality is that President Aragones is the 11th President of the Catalan Government in the thirtieth parliamentary term, democratically sorted by a majority of Parliamentarians as a result of the citizenry's will expressed in democratic elections convened by an autonomous parliament that forms part of a democratic state. It's not the legislature, as you say, of a Republican generality. They can insist, they can try to rewrite the reality or even the whole story insisting on an interested report, on a part report. They can believe they're living in a republican Catalonia. It's respectable, but it's not true. Now, recognize that President Aragones is, for example, the eleven president of the invalid Generality the remaining presidents of periods prior to the present? No, no, Change the number of the legislature, closer to a republican reality? No, no, Recognise that this is the thirty-year invalid legislature Recognise that there was a legislature during the Second Republic? No, no, Or even as long as there can be a continuous history of the Government of Catalonia from year 31 to its recovery from year 80 in a democratic_mark? Of course there can be this recognition. To recognize this continuity, it is not necessary to change an element of classification of historical periods, because, we insist, they are different historical periods. I do not join a republic with a parliamentary monarchy, even if it is out of respect to whom the Republic fought. There was no republican continuation. We're not living in a republic at this time. In any case, if they want to recognize as the first the only legislature of the Second Republic, then I cease to say that we have 132 presidents of the Generality, but they agree, they agree. The only interest we see is to relate the republican period to the imaginary concept of Catalonia republican that President Aragonès quoted in his investment speech or when they speak of the Council for the Republic as an element that participates in the governance of Catalonia or the existence of legitimate presidents over the President of the Generality, speeches that the only one that they do is mismatch our institutions. There is no rule of 78, there is no repression in Catalonia and a very important part that does not see with repression in Catalonia and that must also be taken into account. Let's be serious when we want to make this mental mark that we don't have. There are many acts we do annually to commemorate the Second Republic. We often talk about the role of Catalan institutions during this period, with diversity of opinions and visions. And I have to do them, I have to follow them, and I have to work for the recovery of the historical memory and I have to do it too... to make him respect his order. A system of ordering and classification on which not only the General Courts are based, but the rest of the autonomous parliamentary systems and this is done in this way for a basic principle of classification and documentary ordering, such as the homogenization of criteria. Its proposal is contrary to this general principle and, in short, it is contrary to the same efficiency of the system of ordering, making difficult aspects such as the same documentary consultation of Parliament's systems. I'm not talking about legal impediments. I am talking about the consequences that the technical implementation and the associated economic cost in the case of this resolution proposal can have if it comes forward. We will vote against this motion for a resolution because we do not share the content, because we do not share the form and because we believe that we need to focus on the politics of things and not on the things of politics. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.234.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr. Manuel Acosta has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.235.0	Thank you, President. I must confess the stupor that caused me to be aware of the motion for a resolution that we are debating in this House. Do you really believe, Mr. Signatories, that you can afford to discuss such trivial matters, so out of all rigor and so eminently ideological? In addition, you have used the extraordinary urgency procedure, with the health, economic and social urgency that we are suffering. How do you tell our fellow citizens that? Really, what you would have to do is dedicate yourself to working in body and soul to solve the real problems of Catalans. That is to say, unemployment, the health crisis, the fall of the business fabric as a result of the disastrous management of the crisis of the covid, also of the process. And, on the other hand, the increasing degree of insecurity in our streets, in our neighborhoods, the demographic winter, the scourge of occupation and the lack of freedom of expression for Spanish speakers. I propose to you, without the intention of being exhaustive, a series of historical data so that you may recognize that your attempt to replace the thirteenth legislature by the fourteenth legislature lacks all rigour. First, the Generality of Catalonia, an institutional entity in which Catalonia is politically organized following the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, was born in 1932. Before that date, before 1932, there has never existed in the history of Catalonia any organism that is called or has been called Generalidad de Catalunya. And much less that he's had similar skills. On the other hand, during the reign of Jaime I the Conqueror, the king of the Crown of Aragon, in the thirteenth century, were born in the Courts. That is, the union of the three arms, that is, the privileged elements, namely: nobility, high clergy and urban patricianship, with the king. The king was the one who held the sole and exclusive legislative power and had the ability to summon the three arms to gather in Cortes when he needed money and men for his military campaigns. If the Courts granted him that requested money, the king granted them privileges and lands. It must also be borne in mind that the majority of the Catalan people, 95_per_cent, were not represented in the Courts, but that the majority or, by the way, all the privileges that the three arms took away from the king, for 5_per_cent of the population were benefited. Well, let's look at the term « General de Catalunya. He was born in the Courts of 1300 and refers to the three arms, but from 1301, when the Courts grant money to the king, but in charge of the whole people, some delegates, some deputies, are elected to oversee the collection task. These are organized and constitute the General of Catalonia. Subsequently, it is reorganized, consolidated and will be called Diputación del General de Catalunya. Well, let's jump into history. We're leaving on April 14, 1931. Lluís Companies, from the balcony of Barcelona City Council, proclaims the Second Spanish Republic. Hours later, Francesc Macià proclaimed the Catalan state within the Federation of Iberian Peoples. But then rectify and opt for the creation of the Generality of Catalonia on May 9 of the same year. The Statute of Autonomy was then promulgated and, as a result, the Catalonian Parliament and its first and only legislature were constituted. This will last, as you well know, until April 1, 1939. Following the Political Reform Act of 1976, a new regime based on the 1978 Constitution was introduced in Spain, which will lead to the rehabilitation, the recovery of the Generality of Catalonia, and will be granted a new Statute. And, therefore, from 1980 the first legislature of this new stage began to function. Well, as they say to my people, hell is not full. Is that why I want to ask you if you want to assume you're a Republican general heresy? So, I'll make five cents, give some historical data, so that they reflect on this and do it in a dispassionate way. The atmosphere of social unrest and terrorism which began in May 1931 and which took concrete form in the cream of a hundred religious buildings throughout Spain lasted throughout the Second Republic. A couple of examples I'll just lay down. General wandering in Barcelona on September with assaults on the streets, six dead, forty-three wounded. That was the balance. Gener of 1932, a communist subversive movement broke out at the Llobregat basin with violent occupation of lands and gatherings. Well, as the government of Azaña was unable to secure public order, it was called nine elections in November 1933 – certainly the first in which the women were able to exercise their right to vote – which brought victory to the center and right parties. Left-wing parties did not fit the defeat well and waited for the government to go down in the way it was. Specifically, Esquerra Republicana de Catalunya organized the October Revolution of 1934, as Councillor Dencàs explained in a later parliamentary session on May 5, 1936 – you can consult with this house's actions. On the 5th of October, Alliance Obrera y Estado Català, with the organization also of the Generality of Catalonia, proclaimed the revolutionary general wave to all Catalonia on the 6th of October, 1934, the Generality of Catalonia delivered four_ thousand weapons to the University Square. And finally, on the 7th, in Barcelona, and on the 11th, in Sabadell, ended this revolt with a general balance of forty-six dead and one hundred_disset wounded. Well, since the beginning of the Civil War, the generality has confiscated all the dynamite newspapers and has also applied a fierce censure to the others. He also began a brutal persecution of people of Dretians, anarchists of the CNT-FAI, Trotskyist communists of the POUM, as well as entrepreneurs, owners, Catholics, priests and religious. Companies didn't twitch their wrists to dictate death sentences, as this one I show them here continued, with his personal seal of president of the Generality; and I was responsible for eight thousand deaths, as is constancy in this list that I put in its abyss, for if they ever want to return a tribute to these victims. Finally..., in conclusion, we are here to work, to solve the real problems of Catalans and, therefore, I ask you to stop wasting your time with ideological superficialities. The creation of the Generality of Catalonia dates from 1932; therefore, it is a gross fallacy to try to equate two institutions of sign as different as the old and historical Diputation of the General of Catalonia with the current Generality of Catalonia. Three: it is absurd to speak of 132 presidents of the Generality, and it is ridiculous that Mr Aragonès, with that anti-monarchical and anti-clerical talent, is called, self-proclaimed, successor of a bishop, the bishop of Gerona, Berenguer de Cruïlles. We cannot feel – four – proud to be heirs to the Generality of the Second Republic, one of the darkest and most dramatic periods of our entire history; and, five, the current Constitution gives meaning, orders and vertebrae to each and every one of the legislatures that is developing over a period of validity. Finally, with all humility, I would like to beg you, I would ask you, to defend your ideas with all vehemence, with all determination that you consider appropriate, but please do not prostitute history. Although the French literary Beaumarchais said that of « calumniad, calumniad, that something remains, I prefer to welcome myself – and I invite you to do so too – to what he wrote more than two_ thousand years ago Cicero : « History is truly witness to the times, light of truth, life of memory, teacher of life and messenger...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.236.0	Time's up, Mr. Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.237.0	...of antiquity. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.238.0	Then, on behalf of the Groupe Parlamentari Mixt, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.239.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Francesc of Dalmases has made a demand for historical revisionism as political practice. The problem is that this practice ends up being highly selective: when they need to apply it and when they don't need to apply it. I will give just one example, in many ways: the one considered by you as the first president of the Government of Catalonia in this delirious list of the 132 presidents, was said before, Berenguer de Cruïlles, year 1359, turns out to be the main inquisitor of his time; I doubt much that you have passed the test of the Democratic Memorial, so as not to speak directly of the council of feminists of recent creation. In order to avoid this type of ridiculous debate, more than esters, which would make this Parliament more a faculty of history and not a legislative chamber – in fact, it is what today has passed with quite little fortune, for sure – it is necessary to establish a clear difference: one thing is history, which actually must know and never forget, and another thing is democratic institutions, which adapt to changing reality and which cannot be eternally submissive to the subjective interpretation that each individual makes of historical developments. This simple, simple idea always guided Tarradellas' political action. In fact, the proposal they approve today does not cease to be a threat to the totality of the political action of Tarradellas, a work, his, much more meritorious than that of the vast majority of his predecessors, in order not to speak, not to be cruel, of his successors, above all of the four behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.240.0	Next, to indicate the points that are accepted and the text that is put to the vote, has the word of Mr Francesc de Dalmases, on behalf of the four proposing groups, for a maximum of two minutes. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.241.0	Thank you, President. A little surprising as it has been, as it has evolved, the debate. Fortunately, in Parliament, there are a majority of women, each time they grow up, and it allows them to do more than one thing at a time. Therefore, sometimes we have the feeling that Ciutadans is moving forward, but his arguments remain, because in the morning we have spoken of a government, a government that governs, that speaks of business, that speaks of the most disadvantaged, that speaks of all the challenges that we have of the future; but also on the evening we can speak of historical memory, it is perfectly compatible. And, therefore, that which he touches and which he does not touch has surprised us a little. The filoindependence thing, too; they hide it, huh? I hide it a lot, but... (phone rings), not anymore, yeah, it's been a... I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. (Founding voice) Yeah. In any case, on behalf of the groups that we have obviously presented, we accept the thought that we have presented together in order to be able to define the moment at which this proposal has effect. I on the Emena of Ciutadans, yes, a surprise that Berenguer de Cruïlles, chose the Corts of Cervera in 1359, was a man of 1359. Yeah, the metaphysics said something else, but the historical reality says that. And that there's no consistency between the names of presidents and the names of legislatures, so I don't think that's... I mean, I say it with all due respect, huh? I don't think I need to do a history lesson to understand why this is happening. In any case, I would like to recall – I finish, President – that on October 24, 71, the Assembly of United Nations recognized the parliamentary tradition of this country when Pau Casals said: "I soc català. Catalonia is today a region of Spain, but what was Catalonia? Catalonia was the greatest born in the world. I will explain to you why: Catalonia held the first Parliament long before England. Catalonia held the United First Nations in the 11th century. All the authorities of Catalonia have gathered in a city of France, then Catalonia, to speak of pau. In the 11th century, pau al mondo i contra las guerres, contra las armas, contra las inhumanité de las guerres. This was applauded by Year 71 at the United Nations Assembly. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-06-02-0701.242.0	We shall now proceed to the vote on this motion for a resolution. [[Pause.]] The members of the Bureau who have also spoken in order to be able to vote will arrive. The vote begins. With a final result of 80 votes in favour, 53 votes against and no abstentions, this motion for a resolution was adopted. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of parliamentary committees]] [[252-00001/13]] The eighth item on the agenda is the motion for a resolution on the creation of parliamentary committees. In accordance with Rule 60.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary of the Parliament must agree by an absolute majority on the name and scope of the legislative committees proposed by the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen. Therefore, let us move on to the motion for a resolution on the creation of committees, which was already discussed at the last meeting of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen. As the proposal and the determination of the scope of the committees has been published in the plenary file, which has been distributed to all Members, I therefore urge them to complete their reading and proceed directly to the vote. The vote begins. For a total of 119 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions, the result of the vote allows us to donate parliamentary committees that we have just voted to create. [[Proposal to withdraw the Proposition of the Law on Reform of the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, from the Criminal Code, on the decriminalization of euthanasia and the aid to suicide]] [[270-00001/13]] Let's now discuss the new point that has also been included in the order of the day. This is the point of the agenda, which is the proposal to withdraw the proposed reform law from the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, the Criminal Code, decriminalization of euthanasia and aid to suicide. The Board of Spokesmen of 1 June, as I have told this House, has granted to transfer to the plenary the proposal to withdraw the proposal of the Law on Reform of the Organic Law which I have mentioned of decriminalization of euthanasia and of aid to suicide and, therefore, we shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for withdrawal. On the basis of the positions we have expressed to the Board, is it possible to agree by consent to the withdrawal of this proposal? [[Pause.]] Yeah? Therefore, this law proposal is withdrawn and the session is suspended until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
