ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government (continuation)]] [[255-00002/13]] We shall then proceed to the statements of the representatives of the parliamentary groups, for a maximum of thirty minutes. And in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.2.0	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Aragonès, you're, I think, a good person. That's right, I think he's trying, he's volunteering and he's got all my respect, personal and institutional, but that doesn't work, it doesn't work. Your government doesn't work. It's a divided government. There are no photos or plans of government, nor fourteen hours of president and vice president in a ship that can store it. Today's debate, to which you first gave yesterday with a fluctuating and low-level intervention, will certify that. In a world with changes of great abst and a lot of foundations, with a country, Catalonia, which, after two years of bad governments, finds itself at a bad time, its proposals, proposals and policies of its government are clearly insufficient and ask for criticism and urgently an alternative that, modestly, the alternating government of Catalonia that captivates it, offers to lead. In these four parts I will organize my intervention: the world, the context in which you develop your government action; the country, Catalonia, the state of the country, Catalonia, to govern; the proposals that you offer and the alternatives that some of us plant. Let's start with the first part: how's the world? In what context do you need to develop your government action? We are in a moment of change, in the world, very fast, accelerated and very intense. If the great recession of the year 2008 begins the decline of finance capitalism, of neoliberalism, therefore, with social onades in the form of populisms that, little by little, do not give to more constructional plantations, more assigned, more fruitful, also, as seen in Acemoglu and Robinson, to The Narrow Corridor, of economics of social market, the pandemic of the covid-19_ posed manifest the vulnerabilities of our societies, reinforcing its need for public dimension; the necessity – no longer the utility –, the need that there are strong institutions that old for the general interest, for the public interest. And, if I may, the validity of the Social-Democratic settlements. In fact, Minouche Shafik, an economist hidden in Egypt, deputy governor of the Bank of England until the year 2017 and current director of the London School of Economics, sets out as and as anticipated, certainly, to our home Antón Costas, that what is at stake is, no more or less, that the redefinition of a new social contract for the 21st century that takes into consideration the enormous advances in technology, artificial intelligence, the enveloping of societies, feminism and all the green agenda. A redefinition of the social contract for the 21st century in the European marc. Europe emerges strengthened as the political space after this pandemic, "A Europe united through adversity and recovery, said literally, Ursula von der Leyen, at his address on the state of the Union, a few weeks ago. And if anyone had doubts about this reinforcement of the European space, I think they are emptied by the form, by the reinforced bipolarization that is derived from the end of the war in Afghanistan. It seemed that, confined as we were, the world was stuck, and it turns out it's changing, faster and more intense than ever. And it's important not to lose perspective. That's the context. How is the country you have to govern? How's Catalunya? It's true, we're okay with vaccinations. Or we are much better than others, to put it in relational terms. It's true that the country has a lot of creativity. It is true that I detect at least energy in the city of Catalonia, concern for the city of Catalonia, but Catalonia is worse, much worse than it might be. Of which they correspond to be by abilities, by resources, by country power. Much worse than I should be. Let's see it, if I may, with some objective data. First, in economics. From 2017 onwards, the transfer of companies outside Catalonia exceeds 4,254, according to data from the Civil Registry, to which they have entered Catalonia; 4,254. Net loss of business capacity. If from 2006 to 2016 we grew at the same rate, in terms of gross domestic product, that Spain, a percentage of these two years, from 2017 and until 2019, to censure ourselves to pre-pandemic data, we grow two tenths less in matter..., in terms of gross domestic product, that the rest of Spain, a 2.5_per_cent Spain, a 2.3_per_cent Catalonia. I Madrid a year ago surpassed – in terms of gross domestic product – Catalonia, for the first time, in many and many years. What's the social picture of our country? Three data, not to upset them: a 26,3_per_cent of the population of Catalonia is at risk of poverty or social exclusion, 1,993,100 people; 105,300 lllar do not have tickets, said Caritas, report of Caritas. And a third of infants and adolescents are at risk of social exclusion. We have, also a socially divided country, not broken, divided. I think it's easy to see that. A few days ago I asked myself what brings Catalans together, didn't I? With a reflection that would want collective of this chamber. Institutionally, it is worth paying in July 2015 to the appointment held by the student president but with the European Union's Transport and Mobility Commissioner, Violeta Bulc, at that time, to see a president of the Generality meeting with a European Commissioner; July 2015, no? Psychologically the country has it disoriented, discouraged, a little unsettled, isn't it? The soul, the experience of the country to which President Pujol referred; the collective morality to which Maragall called it, the experience of the country is not well, is not well after two years, is it not? In short, it is my opinion, politically, that we are assuming a fraction of the collection – the collection – that was produced in 2017. And I must say, Mr Aragones, you have ruled these past years and are, to a good extent, responsible for this country situation. They're not the only ones, because it's a weak collection, we all have something to see, but the main ones. A world with very deep, very deep changes, which takes Catalonia at a bad time. And what do you propose? What are you going to offer today from this Faristol? More than the same. Refocus, essentially, on the same scheme of later years. You're right, with some changes, very, very shy, small ones, which I value, huh? I must say that I value them; but that they are very insufficient and that they are very far from what, at least, my criteria, Catalonia, the country, needs. You'd want to, in this third part of my intervention, shut me down a little more, wouldn't you? And you will see, first of all, the political orientation, the tape that you set for Catalonia; the policies – some, at least – of the policies that you proposed. The instruments he sets up to accomplish them and the attitude he confronts them with. Let's start with political orientation. Where do you want to take this country, huh? At the end of independence, you say. And plant self-determination and amnesty. It's an object, said with all respect, unreal and I think it's impossible to settle down. And to be that important, why don't we forget about it, huh? , politics is the art of what is possible, not the most important, not the most worrying. The most important and worrying thing is that you're shutting out half the Catalans. No, no... you're back in office as president of midja Catalunya. In fact, I was looking at my little hemicle yesterday, when I was saying these words, and it took me away. It's true that you're talking, and it's good, about the dial. He was changing it for negotiation yesterday. Recordin Iceta: dialog, negotiation and agreements, for this order. As you wish. I'm talking about dialogue and negotiation, it's the same. You talk about it and it's good. He talks about the dialogue between governments; between his Government and the Government of Spain. A government-to-government dialogue that causes hard disagreements on the part of your government. I recognize here that you don't have it easy. And I recognize that you have had a firm attitude in defending this dialogue between governments. So much for this firmness the most often, if I may, in his capture as the president. Mr. Batet, this is where you have to move. Don't you see that it's not possible that we don't rehearse? Can't you see he didn't feel it? This is where you have to move. And, of course, no one is above the law. It has to move because you represent a group that is also Catalonia, and we need them to you in the table. Mr. Carrizosa, you and your group too. Mr. Fernández, you too. We all have to play, because you have to call a dialogue between Catalans, Mr. President. Look, I was a part of the team that negotiated President Sanchez's investiture with two more members of this chamber, Mrs. Vilalta and Mr. Young, and we made a very short document, a page..., not above a page and medium, didn't we? , which effectively spoke of a bilateral dialogue, negotiation and agreement table for the resolution of the political conflict. I feel proud of this agreement. The later paragraph of this agreement, I read literally, says: "This table – I read literally, eh? – "It will be coordinated with other existing institutional and parliamentary dialogue spaces, which will have to be strengthened, among others, the Generalitat-State Bilateral Commission, as set out in the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia – it will bring together the 2nd of August, if I am not mistaken –" and the table of parties existing in the Parliament of Catalonia. That's what we signed. I'm asking you to please me. The bilateral committee has reactivated, the government table has met, the party table remains, and I want you to follow with your party, Mr. Batet, Mr. Carrizosa, all of you. I want us to follow. You're from Maresme, I'm from Vallès. He knows what's going on with Maresme's reindeer, the water, when she finds the clogged llera, finds a way to get to the sea. It will pass the same with the dialog between Catalans. If we don't drive him, he'll find a messy path. I'd better go to the institutional school, and I'll get back to you to drive. And ask him, therefore – I call him back – to summon this table of parties to which his political group is committed in a negotiation in which I represented, and with great pride, the Socialist Party of Catalonia. Let's go to the policies, some policies, of which you have offered. I'll refer to six of them, won't I? First place, toilet. I'm not gonna do the Pandemic Fight policy. I won't do politics. Now I was commenting before I got in with the counselor that we're a little better, but we need to be careful. Just a couple of things, right? We don't have to run out of cows, counselor. We don't have to run out of cows, because the world needs it. I don't make blood out of this. More than that, I recognize him for his honesty in recognizing mistakes, but we must not lapse cows, and I only wish to say to him, too, with very fair play, that being a councillor of the Generality of Catalonia is an honor. In the matter of justice, of the notes they worry about. 2020 could have created four judicial bodies, and we didn't create them, and 2021 could have created them, and we didn't create them. Why? - Why? Why didn't we create a family justice for Granollers to improve the welfare of the citizens of Granollers, of the judicial party of Granollers? Second note, Martorell. More than two years ago, a new court building was planned. The situation of Martorell's jutjats is unacceptable. I'm sending her here, counselor, to take the cards in these two themes. Life and security, Mr. Elena, counselor, you know you have us at your side. I know. Mr. Swordler expressed it to you and I expressed it to you, but we can't be if you're not there. I would like to hear it, when there are important places in Barcelona, Tiana, Llinars or the Autonomous. I'd like to see it, I'd like to feel it, I'd like you to come by. It's worrying, what's happened these past few days, and you've got us next to you if you're there. He's got us right next to him. I didn't like the fact that we know that 1,200 infringing shippers who have urged the agents of Mosso d'Esquadra have not been processed by 2020. I'd like you to give an explanation of that. And listen to me, if there's been a mistake, it's coming out, but it can't be that. Because it deepens into one of the two reflections a little more background that it wanted to do in the matter of coexistence and security. First, it is necessary to secure the authority of public law enforcement officials without any nuance, and one way of doing so is to process the complaints they have, without nuance. And second of all, he's not gonna find us in this pim-pam-pum that I've seen these last few days looking for who's the culprit to avoid responsibility. No, no, it wasn't you – it wasn't you –, I say others, who sit in this room, political groups who sit in this room. We will find ourselves in the sum, or at least we will try, in collaboration, in cooperation to solve problems of security and public order in Catalonia that concern us. And, of course, the majority of young people in Catalonia are young people who know how to enjoy the party respecting public space and respecting others, but that minority that doesn't do it, that minority has to fall for the law, and that is why the complaints made by the agents of the authority must be processed. In the field of education, counselor, if I may, red tag – I see that it is not there. Twenty-six_thousand_four hundred students wanted to attend vocational training in June and couldn't do so, and now you're telling us it's only 1,300. No, in the numbers you're making, you're going down on the 18,700 path. There are 26,000 people, 26,400, who wanted to attend FP and have not had an answer and this is not acceptable in a country that wants to go forward, right? And if you allow me a suggestion, president, four leaders in the field of vocational training: the Agency for Vocational Training and Qualification of Catalonia, which relies on the Presidency, depends on you; the Education Council; the Enterprise and Work and the Agriculture Council, we put in 'another and so we make it even easier. Put your order. A person responsible and who does not return to 26,400 families or people who want to take vocational training and cannot do so. And, by the way, when this happens, there's no problem accepting the help of the concerted school. It took a while to accept it. In the matter of renewable energies, therefore mirin, frankly, concerned. Catalonia on this assumption led, it was its first autonomous community to have a wind farm, and today we find ourselves at the cua de la transition écológique, right? In fact, there have been projects for 10,000 megawatts that are put to rest by government indecisiveness. The result of everything folded, a windmill in two years, right? This does not allow us to pose..., to be capdavants again. Yesterday you said, and I did, that you wanted to end it, 'it's always been like this. Well, in this case not, in this case we go back there, because we led, we did well, and maybe what happens is that what happened these past years is not the right one. In fact, in this matter, decisions are taken, in one sense or another, of these two thousand megawatts that are stuck for lack of government decision. Infrastructure. Mr Puignero, I must recognize your courage in closing an agreement for the expansion of the airport Josep Tarradellas Barcelona - el Prat. I have to recognize your courage, but I have to regret that this can't be brought to an end at the end, because you were disqualified by tweet for the President of the Government. This undermines the credibility of your government, Mr. Aragones. This is an episode, attention, definitions of a presidency, because it is a stock in the economic growth of the Catalan economy – it is a stock in the economic growth of the Catalan economy. And I'm gonna take a little bit more greasy here, aren't I? The citizens have all the right, I would just lack, to express their opinions, but the rulers, a point more thick, and a point more solid in the decisions we make. And, above all, honest: now the CUP, now we've put a paranoia on it, man! Please! Obviously, I'm sorry about that. I recognize the heart, sir. I'm sorry, Mr. Aragonès, that this issue, this enlargement cable, has not been able to get to the right place. And two notes, three positive notes to show my group's support, right? First the Olympic Games Barcelona-Saragossa-Pirineus. I would like to join the name "Aragó" too, because it does nothing to do them together..., we are stronger, to do them together with Aragó, right? I think it's an interesting initiative for Catalonia, especially for the Catalan and Aragonese Pyrenees, right? And I think that the majority support for the initiative is found to be so that we can put it at risk by seeking the approval of consultations, that we already know what they will give if they are consulting in the area of the Pyrenees, a definite support. Also to maintain Formula 1 in Catalonia. On this assumption, we're on the side of the government, if you decide to do it, as I hope you do, and throw it away, right? And in the whole feminist agenda that you expressed yesterday. This is an assumption for us too, and I am therefore pleased that you expressed it in your speech yesterday and know that in this assumption you will always have us at your side. The world must be an equal world for men and women. And, effectively, the glass braids that still exist must be broken, less than a few years ago, but they still exist. Here we are at your side. And I want to do – I hope not harm the interested – two praises, right? Or two recognizances of going for the right path, right? In the first place, to the Consellera Cervera de Drets Socials. I could tell you here: where is the social rescue plan? I could tell him two years ago that he approved a strategic plan and didn't deploy, I could tell him that all the program contract they want to make to secure the investment of the joints, two years after prorogations is nothing. But it would be unfair, because this I can't attribute to you, it's his predecessor who left him a bad legacy. In change, in other words, according to the company of my team that is in contact with you, we see a good predisposition. The matter concerns us very much, and therefore I must say that, in fact, it has us in this sense beside it. I hope we'll pass the words to the fetuses. And so is the Councilwoman of Culture, the lady, the Constellera Garriga. Listen to me, Fi, we haven't seen each other. I've seen myself with a lot of you, I've seen me with fifteen new from your government, huh? There was no occasion with you... and I'll do it with all the things I'm asking for, huh? And don't worry that we'll always keep our discretion open, because we're in our discretion policy, classic with that, huh? You've made a good impression on the sector. And for us Catalan culture is cabdal, and language, cabdal. And here it will have its own side. I'm telling you. So if we keep this line, it'll keep us at your side. And Mr. Aragones, I think it was an oblivion, but yesterday I did not hear mention in his intervention, for nothing, the assemblies, and Catalonia is not built without the assemblies. I want you to be aware, at least, that this is my group's visit. Catalonia needs to be built together as a non-complementary piece, but essential to the construction of the country. [[Some applause.]] Let's go to the instruments you're planting to pull these policies forward, shall we? Obviously, I have to refer to the presupposition. By 2021 we have no presupposition. You committed yourself to bringing him in parallel to your investiture. Three times we had the investiture and three times, like Sant Pere, he denied his commitment, didn't he? Let's see 2022. For now, we have the warmest water. And we're not talking about little, 46,057_million Generality assumptions, for spending will not fund 35,565. God-in-law, huh? And almost 250,000 will work. I, by the way, Mr. Giró, don't get soft, huh? But I have to tell you a couple of things. You go where you go, and nothing happens, if nothing happens. But sometimes she gives the impression that she has to be forgiven and makes me some ideological baptisms that worry me. I mean, I don't think I'm the most independentist in the room, I don't think I'm the most lefty in the room. Of course, independence and the left, I have said it several times, contradiction. Independence, selfishness; left, solidarity. [[Some applause. Widow's remorse.]] Don't call. Take action, please, as a counselor and you'll have us at your side. I told you, we want a presupposition in 2022. I acted like a counselor. The plan of government that they presented yesterday, miri, in fi, three notes to characterize it: no presuppositionary compromises in the measures it poses; many repetitions of things that already appeared on the previous plan of government that have not been completed; and, above all, perhaps the most subtle, no? , which is more surprising to us is an abscess of generic verbs: « to strengthen, « to increase, « to facilitate, « to promote. They serve other verbs: "iron, "execute, "review. Not so much future, more present, that is what a government must do: decide, realize, execute. Above all, for this reason, the most important thing, the most concerned about the plan of government, is that in these first days of its government, these few more than a hundred days, it has remained – to me it seems that in an irreversible way – damaged the credibility of its government, right? We have seen it with the disagreement in the matter of dialogue between governments, we have seen it in the afer of the airport Josep Tarrés Barcelona - El Prat. Clearly, without credibility or credibility, from our point of view, so damaged is very difficult to take seriously the plan of government that you have presented, isn't it? There's an omission that got me out of his intervention, too, and that's autonomous financing. He didn't talk about it. It's an essential resource. I didn't see you talking about it and I think Catalonia needs to fight from its institutions to have a fair financing, right? And I'm also holding myself, and I want to make it clear, your absences, right? In Catalonia, when there are public incidents, I would like to see you, Mr. Aragones, Mr. President, I would like to see you at times... And now the citizenry needs to see its president, right? And we haven't seen... Spain, missing from the Presidents' Conference, have we? We're discussing European foundations, aren't we? Yesterday you made some criticisms here. It's... it's all right in these multilateral forums to do the reviews. You defend the institution of the Generalitat de Catalunya ; defense Catalunya. She's the person the Catalans wanted to sit there, isn't she? I to Europe, right? I'd like you to visit the European Commission, wouldn't I? I'm in the mood to help you make it happen, aren't you? And, finally, the attitude, right? Attitude is always this, the attitude of ‘guilty is the others', isn't it? It's the others' fault. If there's a loss of economics, it's because Madrid's calling for companies to break in. If the political misconception is that we have a state, let's say, a little democratic and repressive. If the airport, no, it's that they gave us a paranoia, because there's... still, it's always the others' fault, isn't it? We're all good here; the others are bad. They're looking at how to shut them down, and they want to attribute all our misfortunes, aren't they? The ball in the eye doesn't let us see the big one in the eye, does it? It's a low-recommendable attitude. I would want less complaint; I would want more self-requirement; I would want more effort. I, fix's, one more time, Tarradellas, right? You used to say that, didn't you? Tarradellas already said it, according to Josep Maria Bricalll, and I quote textually: "It is tendix – assigning it to Tarradellas –, it tends to pretend to solve our problems some others and we look guilty outside. May we know how to govern – said Tarradellas – and may we solve our problems. I have an effective government. I fixed that date, didn't I? The orientation, therefore, unreal; the policies, timid; the instruments, non-existent, and the attitude are clearly those of a divided government, which is not at the height of what Catalonia needs at this time. And I had to say here, with all modesty, that there is an alternative. There's a choice. Look, I'm in no hurry. We are in no hurry to rule, but Catalonia is in a hurry not to lose time or more opportunities. There is an inclusive horizon for all Catalans and Catalans. We have to build it between all of us, dialogue between us from respect and the frank contrast of the different political approaches that exist in Catalonia. There are a number of credible policies, which deal decisively with the problems of societies; there are instruments to bring them to fruition, such as the presupposition, for example, and the presence of representatives from Catalonia at the place where things are decided. And it takes an attitude of self-requirement that takes away victimism as inoperative as self-justification. With frankness, from the utmost respect I have for you, Mr Aragonès, I cannot see your government giving Catalonia what Catalonia is asking for at this time. I find that today your government is not on the rise and I repeat, despite everything, our predisposition and that of my group to help change course. I offered four pacts, from the first moment on, to the beginning of this parliamentary term: in the field of fighting the pandemic, in the field of European foundations, in the field of carrec renewal and in the field of progress. I'll say it again today – I'll say it again today. So far, you've rejected them and you're on your right, I'm not blaming you for this. Simply, that I remain so conscious of my repeated offering as of his stubborn rebuff. And I don't add one, a new one, of offer. Offer from my group if they can't, with most investment, approve the assumption that you are in force on the 1st generation of 2022, you know that we can discuss it and we can talk to my group. On top of our conveniences, let's say, tactics, the interests of Catalonia. I'm done. Last week we coincided with you and me – and for me it was a joy – at the premiere of the Liceu season. We saw a Strauss opera, Ariadne auf Naxos, Ariadne de Naxos. It is a conceptual opera, which reflects on the opera itself, as well as the presence of money in art. It's a high-society party organized by one of the city's prohoms, who is in charge of two fishes for the occasion: a more satirical opera and comedy, more fun, isn't it? And at the last moment, the prom orders to merge the two fish into one sole. Both, opera and satirical comedy in one, and to the desperation of their creators. And at the end of the day, at the last scene, before it falls... just before the canvas falls, the Viennese pro-man emphatically exclaims: "We have been witnesses," he says, "of a very interesting experiment, but I am afraid that the future of the opera will be quite different. Mr. Aragonès, I don't know if your government's experiment is or isn't interesting. What I do know is that the future of Catalonia will, fortunately, be quite different from how you draw it. And it will be a future of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Illa. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr. Ignacio Garriga. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to start my speech without mentioning the latest events that we have had to experience over the last few weeks, where, once again, separatism has shown its true face. Therefore, before I continue my intervention, I would like to continue to convey my support and my gratitude to the police officers, to the many professionals of the State Security Forces and Bodies who have had to live in dramatic situations in recent weeks, in the face of the silence and complicity of the Government of the Generalitat. As I said, in recent weeks separatism has once again shown its true face. I want to go back to the 11th of September. Last September 11th, as you know, we celebrated the Diada, a date instrumentalized by separatism under the myth of a non-existent nation, which does not represent the majority of Catalans and which is far from being a feast of all and for all Catalans. And, as is usual, the day ended with incidents and violence and, as always, without any condemnation by the Catalan institutions; from the burning of Spanish flags to the violent charges against the Mosso d'ésquadra of their shock forces, to the threats to the Catalans on foot who do not commune with their ideological mantras and harassment, of course, to the Chief of the National Police in Via Layetana, to which I want to transfer all my recognition, all my support, and to censure the outraged words of the President of the Generalitat who spoke yesterday saying that the leadership was not a democratic symbol. For, Mr Aragonès, the Chief of National Police is the guarantor of our constitutional order, and it is a democratic institution that deserves all our respect and recognition. [[Greetings.]] Having said that, yesterday it also demonstrated the true face of separatism, and without squandering it was said that they wanted to turn the Chief of Police into a centre of interpretation. I am pleased that you did an act of truth in the chamber, because that is what you want to do: to manipulate the evil so-called democratic memory, when in reality it is a hysterical memory that what you really intend to do is to interpret history in a twisting and sectarian way. Returning to the Eleventh of September – its Eleventh of September – it is important to emphasize that it symbolizes perfectly the separatist project: division and intimidation through the political violence that you all exercise and promote from the institutions of all Catalans against the Catalans themselves who do not think like you and who, by the way, scrupulously comply with the laws and their civic obligations. Unlike you, who dedicate all your efforts and the money of all Catalans to silence and civilianly kill those who dare to make use of their freedom of expression. But neither we nor the Catalans who have voted for us, nor those who have even voted for other political groups, are going to shut us up or frighten us. On the contrary, every insult, every threat and every stone serves as an impulse for us to move forward with our head very high and persevere in our project for Catalonia. On the 16th of September – you also made a reference yesterday – the so-called "negotiation table" took place, when what is actually a table of extortion of the institutions of the State, a table of betrayal of the Government of the nation and a table of surrender of the institutions of the State ; which is nothing more than an attempt to replace this chamber, where the will of the citizens truly resides, by an autonomous organ in the hands of separatists and socialists without any kind of control on the part of the opposition, sitting on the one hand, Mr Aragonès and his own and, on the other hand, Pedro Sánchez. A President of the Generalitat who, despite what he said yesterday, alone and uniquely and exclusively watches over the interests of a few, and, on the other hand, a President of the Government who is willing to betray us all so as to keep himself one more night in Moncloa. And looking from afar, as fundamental actors of this theatre to which we are accustomed, the deputies of Puigdemont and the rest of the couptists. I am convinced, by the way, that you will soon be sitting at that infamous negotiating table where, as I said, the future of all Catalans is being divided, as if it were a loot. Because their confrontation is not motivated by any political difference – and they know it – but unique and exclusively by the ambition of power of Puigdemont and Junqueras. Because all of you share the same project for Catalonia, a project that is tearing our region apart and that undoubtedly drags it into moral ruin, social ruin, economic ruin and political ruin. And Mr. Illa, who claims to be the head of the opposition but who, after his speech, has been shown to be the adviser of the opposition, is part of one of the brands of the PSOE, the greatest ally of any separatist or nationalist movement at the national level, whether in Catalonia or in the Basque Country; wherever there is a political formation that aspires to break the constitutional order, there will be the Socialist Party in a servile manner. He presented himself, Your Honor, to the elections saying that he came to defend the workers of Catalonia, to recover the prosperity of our land and to offer an alternative to separatism. He then lied as much or more as Pedro Sánchez constantly does: neither will they defend the workers nor will they recover our land nor are they an alternative to anything. You, Your Honor, are as useful to separatism in Catalonia as Rufián is to Mr Sánchez in the Congress of Deputies, a canton of common support to perpetuate himself in power at the cost of breaking our coexistence and spoiling the future of generations of Spaniards. Your Honor, the Socialist Party, how dare you speak on behalf of the workers when they permanently abandon their interests? What explanations are they going to give to the workers of Sabadell, Rubí or Badia del Vallès who are constantly pursuing their ideological agenda? Or those who are permanently taxing themselves? Or do hoteliers, who year and a half later are harassed with still absolutely arbitrary restrictions? We are increasingly the ones who find no difference between separatism and the Socialist Party, nowhere and anywhere. The reality is that, since the inauguration, Mr Aragonès, your Government has been characterized by inaction and immobilism, that of always: they have no other object than to prolong instability and tension, that is your project, to aggravate the internal fracture between Catalans and continue to weaken Spain. They have no orientation whatsoever; they walk aimlessly to that ephemeral 2030 in which they have retrusted their referendum. Nor do they have policies, because they have absolutely failed in the management of the pandemic; they have ruined strategic sectors such as tourism, restoration or nightlife. And they have not been able to guide an economic policy because they have dragged us with budgets that were expired almost before they presented themselves. However, Catalans today have the opportunity to listen to the Vox project without the usual manipulations either of separatism or of the left or of the media permanently watered to subsidies that have become the spokesmen of their regime. The first force of the national opposition suffers, thanks to all of you, from the beginning of the legislature, an anti-democratic health cordon which limits our interventions and which permanently censors our speech. But you were accustomed to past submissiveness; separatism believed that this would stop us, that we would bend our heads and that we would raise the flag. Nothing further from reality. Because the only reality, beyond all your propaganda and the manipulation that accompanies your Government, is that Catalans only think about how to free themselves as soon as possible from all of you. One of the priorities of every public servant, Mr Aragonès, must be to listen to the citizens to serve them better, to know their needs and to be able to attend to their emergencies. The problem is that you have been living with the antifaction of independence for a long time, leaving aside everything that concerns Catalans, and permanently focused, and exclusively, on strengthening all those who serve their cause. That is why, today more than ever, it is essential to talk about everything that you keep quiet. Insecurity in the neighbourhoods is one of the main problems in our region, Mr Aragonès, and you made no reference to this aspect. Robos, robberies and shootings have become usual scenes of our streets, in the face of the inability, because of their fault, of the police officers to face them; agents that you have sold by a handful of votes of the UPC, without sufficient means, and with the criminals, unfortunately for all Catalans, enjoying an improper impunity of any region of Spain. But, of course, how are we going to expect you to do something, right? against violence, those who from positions of power have alerted it and seconded it to other political parties. In the first few months of the year alone, the Mossos and the Urban Guard have arrested a total of 1,276 people related to violent robberies, of which 681 have been infraganti on the street – many of them, by the way, multiple incidents that are often released to continue delinquency. You will do nothing against violence because you are primarily responsible for increasing insecurity in our neighbourhoods and in our peoples. Instead of ensuring the interests of neighbours and their well-being, you invest millions of euros each year in facilitating the entry of illegal immigrants and laws to prevent their expulsion from being immediate; illegal immigrants who, in many cases, come to Spain deceived by mafias, and whom you, all of you, refuse to expel as soon as you put a_foot in Spain. And this is not racism. It is a question of justice with the Spaniards and justice with the legal immigrants, with the legal immigrants who have fulfilled all the deadlines, who have adapted and who contribute and magnify every day to our beloved homeland. [[Some applause.]] That is why we say loud and clear that security must be restored in our neighbourhoods, that illegal immigration must be curbed and that only the streets will be safe again when borders are truly protected. The Government must stop financing all those who become millionaires, all those so-called so-called NGOs who live in humanitarian drama and are necessary collaborators in human trafficking and the illegal immigration business. Nothing more miserable, nothing more inhuman than to deceive all those who want to leave their countries with false hopes while NGO leaders become millionaires at their expense. Parents have the right not to suffer in the window of their homes while waiting for their children, to return home, and the Government has the obligation to put all the means it has in place to ensure that no one else mother is afraid of their children returning at night. And how to do that? By doing all the opposite of what you do: by strengthening the staff and resources of the police officers; by demanding, once and for all, the immediate expulsion of all those immigrants who enter our country illegally; by closing all the mining centres and returning their parents to their countries of origin; by eliminating all forms of public subsidies to NGOs and entities that promote illegal immigration and live from the businesses of the mafias; by putting, in the end, all the means at our disposal to ensure that our streets and neighbourhoods are once again safe places where it is worth living and forming a family. You have not said this, but it is urgent to work in a Catalonia whose priority are the workers and their businesses. The economic decline of our region, Mr Aragonès, is the result of many years of legal insecurity and irresponsible governments such as yours, which have prioritized their partisan interests and personal corruptions above the well-being of all citizens. The consequence is the flight of companies and banks, the disappearance of foreign investment and tourists; that is, the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs due to the irresponsibility of many of those sitting in this chamber. Catalonia's deficit exceeds all fiscal rules and its indebtedness is completely unsustainable, until it depends entirely on the FLA. GDP has collapsed in 2020, less 11.5_per_cent, five tenths more than the Spanish economy as a whole, and debt has gone up to EUR 79,000_million. That is, the cost for each Catalan is around 10,169 euros. The relative weight loss of the industrial sector has impacted the economy, and the Government has done absolutely nothing to prevent it. The recently presented industrial pact is convinced that it will not achieve the minimum objective of increasing industrial weight. And now you have made a declaration of intent without any effectiveness. The leisure sector and the restoration accumulates millionaire losses – millionaire – as a result of the most restrictive and unjustified measures throughout the national territory. Catalonia also has nineteen own taxes, of which four have been declared unconstitutional, and some as absurd, such as the canon of water, municipal waste, industrial, construction, environmental taxes, tax on tourist stays, on large commercial establishments, on empty housing... A real fiscal hell, Mr Aragonès, which punishes especially the middle and popular classes. And it is that not even in the midst of the most serious crisis in recent decades have you cared about the citizens. The Government was the only autonomous government that had the absolute shame of raising the tax burden in the midst of the covid crisis, incorporating a strong rise in inheritance and donation tax into the budgets. Shame on you, Mr. Aragonès. And as the Catalans become poorer, we have to endure, as I said, a fiscal suffocation to finance, in short, the tens and dozens of separatist organizations that live on the public money of all Catalans. Why do Catalans have to pay to keep the separatist assembly in any municipality or the delirium of Catalan NASA? Why do they have to pay to finance these ecofeminist or urban garden workshops? Citizens' money, Mr Aragonès, must be dedicated to meeting their needs, to financing and strengthening public services, and to ensuring once and for all that no Catalan – than no Catalan –, no family goes hungry or has a roof to sleep under. In front of the president and with the bill of light in historical peaks, Aragonès did not dedicate a single minute to demanding from Pedro Sánchez a tax reduction that allows, for example, the most vulnerable and the elderly to be able to pay the bill at the end of the month. Because the only priority of separatists and socialists is to protect themselves, water their fellow citizens with public funds and make themselves millionaires at the expense of citizens who permanently collect to turn them into victims. And meanwhile, Catalans, vote for those who vote, whether men or women or have the sexual orientation they have, abandoned to their fate. It is possible to put an end to fiscal spolio, guarantee the prosperity of Catalonia and maintain and strengthen quality public services, of course, but it is necessary to drastically reduce all the ideological political spending that you promote; to undertake a radical decrease in all the own taxes that are drowning the citizens, Mr Aragonès; to demand once and for all the protection of Spanish products against the illegal entry of products from third countries; to protect our industry and to stop the relocation to third countries; to guarantee security in the streets and to put an end to the mafias of illegal trade. Paying more than 240_million_de_euros a year, from public funds from all Catalans, to TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio does not make Catalans live better. [[Some applause.]] Pursuing tourism, a source of income for dozens of municipalities in our region, does not make Catalans live better. Promoting illegal immigration and turning neighbourhoods into crime nests does not make Catalans live better. Abandoning producers, our farmers, farmers or fishermen does not, Mr Aragonès, make Catalans live better. And as you laugh, the Catalans who are early today to work, to take your children to school or to look for a job are suffering. That's his model from Catalonia. Ladies and gentlemen, education is one of the fundamental pillars of any society, and one of its main functions has been perverted in order to foster systemic separatism. They broke the social elevator. You have deprived many young people of opportunities and limited your future. A proof of this is their exclusion and permanent persecution of Spanish, the official language of Spain, in twenty-one countries spoken and by more than 580_million people. Its mafia system uses education as an instrument of social control that has achieved, through pressure and even threats to management and teaching teams, the violation of the principles of neutrality, objectivity and impartiality, which should govern the performance of staff in educational institutions. His linguistic policy does not pursue the promotion of bilingualism, but the permanent exclusion of Spanish. And to the last words of the Councillor of University and Research, Gemma Geis, I refer. He said: "Defending selectivity in Spanish is radical and fascist. This woman is the advisor to University and Research; she charges more than EUR 115,000 a year, not to promote academic knowledge, to turn the university into a teaching and learning body, to a neutral institution at the service of students, but to deepen her ideological agenda of hatred, to promote division and to destroy the future of our young people. And with the new course, persecution seems to want to accentuate it. Universities will now produce semi-annual reports, which will be delivered to the department, where all the incidences of changes to the teaching language will be collected. Even the defender of the people, Mr Aragonès, has had to go out in defense of neutrality, and has demanded the Catalan directors who must respect diversity by exercising their functions, without assuming or presenting as their own the institutions a certain ideological position. We are convinced that the university must be freed from all totalitarian ideological impositions and its culture of cancellation, recovering once and for all its vocation as a space of freedom and search for truth and beauty. Education as a fundamental pillar of a free society, that is our project. And how to do that? For, first of all, ensuring the right to be educated in Spanish and the duty of everyone to know the common language. Catalan is a fundamental part of our land, of course, and must have an important space in our educational system, of course, but it can never again be an obstacle for any child, for no family, to be educated in the language in which he chooses. This educational project that we defend will ensure that parents have the right to educate their children at liberty, in a concerted, private, public school, with differentiated or non-differentiated education, and once and for all regaining their legitimate role in the educational process, and expelling the ideological activists that you place in the classrooms. Politics is done in Parliament, Mr Aragonès, not in primary schools in the Catalan provinces. And of course, we have to increase public spending on education, of course. But to do this, we must first close the Diplomat and close the drain of separatist funds, and allocate, once and for all, the money to prevent any Catalan having to study in a barracks; also improving the scholarship system in the university and pre-university stage so that education is a real social lift, which you have truncated, in which the economic situation is not an obstacle to effort, merit or capacity. In short, an education whose maximum is to become an engine of personal development of our youth. Mr Aragonès and members of the Government, the possibility of access to a home cannot become a luxury, a luxury that only a few can afford. And you've done it. All Catalans must have access to a home in which they can develop their life plan and be able to form a family. Over the last decades, access to housing in Catalonia has become a road full of obstacles: tax increases, regulation, price increases due to lack of supply, speculation, lack of social housing or promotion of occupation. The Government's reaction to the increase in housing has been to legitimize illegal occupations, and we have seen it in this chamber at the mouth of the Interior Councillor, and to set a very serious precedent for impunity for a crime. And the consequences, as always, are suffered by the current Catalans: 6,647 complaints by occupation in 2020, that is, 45_per_cent of the total occupations in Spain. Catalonia has become the focus of the crime against private property throughout the country thanks to all of you. The victims of these criminals are, in many cases, working families, working families who have to spend a real hell to recover their homes, Mr Elena, while from this rostrum you point out and applaud them and even give them institutional support. Supporting criminals and abandoning Catalans on foot; this is another portrait of their project. We must protect all private property once and for all, guarantee the right to access a home, yes, and protect all citizens who do not have a roof under which to shelter themselves. And how to do that? Doing everything you don't do. Freeing, for example, all land that is not specially protected – its regulation, and they know it, on the part of the parties, causes an artificial shortage of building land that causes price rises and has been the main focus of political corruption – building public social housing on property or rent so that young people and families can acquire a home. To end once and for all with the regulation that you promote, and which hinders the construction of new houses, returning to the communities of neighbors the tools necessary to protect their neighborhoods, coexistence and security, demanding once and for all the reform of the Criminal Code, as well as the laws of criminal and civil prosecution to protect real and effective owners who suffer the action of the occupation mafias, to which, by the way, initiative that we presented yesterday in the Congress of Deputies and that all the separatist parties, including the Socialist Party, voted against. That is, once again alongside the criminals and abandoning the Catalans and the ordinary Spaniards. That is, expelling immediately – that is what we propose – any criminal who enters our private property. Mr Aragonès, your plan of transformations that you outlined yesterday afternoon: democratic, social, green and feminist transformation does not really and effectively address the needs of Catalonia, and you know it. On the contrary, it deepens the mistakes that have brought us here and puts ideology once again before the problems of Catalans. Left and separatism always act the same, present maximum plans, disguise their fanaticism with sounding words and millions of euros, of course – which, by the way, they do not have, and I don't know where they are going to come from – and which are impossible to execute. You come to talk to us about democracy. Have a minimum of decorum – have a minimum of decorum. Those who support the subversion of the constitutional order, those who participate in the exclusion of legitimate parties and those who encourage political violence against the opposition cannot give absolutely no lesson in democracy. You come to talk to us about social culture when you have absolutely abandoned each and every neighborhood. They have encouraged illegal immigration, looked elsewhere at crime and, instead of building homes for families, financed those who took care of them. That's your project. [[Greetings.]] You come to talk to us about environmentalism too, but you do not include any measures to preserve the environment, just a shortcut of subsidies to climate bars, which is what you best know how to do, which will always be in favor of your cause to finance ecological workshops, for example, in the centre of Barcelona. The environment must be preserved, of course, but the best way to do this is to count on the men in the countryside, on those who care for it every day, and on those who, as I have said before, have absolutely abandoned them. And finally, you come to talk to us about feminism, the great mantra of our time, the dogma with which so many organizations, so many activists make their living today. If they were to defend the real woman, the first thing they would do would be to shield their security, Mr Aragonès, and not to encourage the arrival of waves of illegal immigrants from other countries where none of the individual rights of women are respected. You are neither democrats, nor defend the middle and working classes, nor preserve the environment, nor protect women. They are a true farce that uses the money of all Catalans against the own interests of Catalans. But be aware that your time is running out, because little by little, step by step, the Catalans are knowing who you are and what you represent: a project at the service of the elites who are the only ones who together with you have profited and filled their pockets. And I would not like to end my speech without recalling the ruling of the Constitutional Court in which it alerted the members of the Bureau of Parliament that they must refrain from making openly unconstitutional resolutions and, in particular, those resolutions aimed at declaring Catalonia's independence or exercising the so-called right of self-determination. We sit down those responsible for the coup d'état, we sit down those responsible for the Bureau to deal with proposals contrary to the mandates of the Constitutional Court and we will sit down all those who intend to commit a crime of disobedience. I have already told you that, in order to deal with some PRs that can be presented during this general policy debate, VOX, as it cannot be otherwise, will exercise the legal actions that are appropriate to declare the unconstitutionality of the proposals presented, leave them to no effect and, of course, we will exercise the criminal action against the members of the Bureau, with names and surnames, who have favored their admission and vote in plenary. As I said, some believed that they were unpunished and believed that the opposition was subject to its violation of the law, to the violation of rights and freedoms. But that's been over a long time. There is a political formation that, although we are constantly trying to silence, we are trying to stigmatize or withdraw from the political debate, which I sometimes thank, as Mr Illa has done, which has manifestly despised more than 217,000 Catalans... I also tell you that we would, in fact, be the only party that would not be part of that evil called« negotiating table, but be very clear that we will continue to persevere in order to recover Catalonia, to regain its freedom and regain its plurality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.5.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I missed the CUP. I'm sorry, huh? It's just that he was looking at her right now and, besides, he didn't see her. Excuse me. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.6.0	Thank you, President. They say that in politics there are no coincidences; well... President, I let them, to begin with, that I am afraid that his speech yesterday did not make the pillars of the 78th rule tremble very much. Let's put it in there, on the way in. Well, we listened, actually, we listened carefully to your speech and we came to two conclusions – two conclusions. You and your government are not generating conditions because in this legislature we exercise self-determination; first. Second: you and your government, President Aragonès and Vice President Puignero, are acting with the same priorities and developing the same public policies of socio-vergency. They're not turning to the left that this country needs. In a crackdown on the part of the Spanish State intensified in the last few days for the arrest of President Puigdemont and for the charges of terrorism against reprisals of 23 September, you, President Aragones, continue to give validity to a table of dial of shame, in which Mr. Pedro Sánchez boasts of not wanting to speak nor of self-determination nor of amnesty. A dialog table that has once again been a photo with only one result: the PSOE in reinforced output and the independence weakened and pulling the dishes by the head. And continued repression is proof of the state's lack of real willingness to dialogue. This State does not want to dialogue, it just wants to manage and normalize repression. And in a _marc of climate crisis, of deficiencies and absences in public services, of increase of inequalities, of housing emergence and of growing precariousness of the majority of the population, you, Vice President Puigneró, and your government priority of expansions of airports, Olympic Winter Games in a Mediterranean country in full climate crisis, the Formula 1, Barcelona World, speculative pilots of the always for the benefit and the work of the always, to continue eviling the territory, aggravating the climate change and hindering the conditions of work and life of the majority. Investments to be directed towards sanitation, education, public transport, rolling stock, public housing, social rescue, universal basic income, land-use planning and land-use care, food sovereignty and the production and distribution of green energy, as at a minimum. Both are subordinated before the State negotiating softly so as to consolidate in power and deepen in the development model, in the economic and social model that has led us to the current crisis. That there is, President Aragonès, of the gir, of the green change, feminist, ecological and social to which it has compromised in the investiture. And we, president, vice president, are here to be an alternative to these two drifts: autonomous drift and conservative drift of your government. We are here not to rebuild, but to transform our country. Or, like, the model of country that you have commanded from the governments of the Generality, in which you have always participated and which you now want to consolidate, needs to be rebuilt and maintained? Do you really think we need to rebuild what was there, what we had? Twenty-one percent of the population living in poverty and families with severe poverty who have increased by thirty per cent; fifteen denunciations a day, president – fifteen –; year 2020, 5,737 families lost their homes; poor energy in the most vulnerable population; a youthful trek of almost forty per cent; accelerated increase in temporary employment contracts, which already represent the norma_per_cent of the total, and a crisis that particularly punishes young women and migrant people. Huge hardships in sanitation, public education and public transport, and a territory full of urban and real estate speculation, with a misguided page and a rampant climate crisis. And who's winning with all this? Banking, energy companies, investment funds, technology and distribution corporations, agroindustry, chemical and pharmaceutical multinationals and the military industry. Go away, the old ones – the old ones. Precisely those that destroy the most territory and accelerate the climate change on a global scale and the most precarious and unequal cause at the planetary level. We want to transform this harsh reality, and we are not finding in your government an ally, neither solid, nor credible, nor reliable to do so. We are here to build a country – the Catalan countries – feminist, who lay down life for the damunt of capital, who put the cures in the center and in the priority of public policies; equal, in which LGBTI people can live without threats, rapes or discrimination; in which migrant people hold the rights of citizens; in which people with Gaudeixin diversity of recognition and equality. We're here to fight patriarchy and masculinism. We want to expel the feixism, the racism of our territories. We want to preserve our country from the expansion of the racist, xenophobic, LGBTIphobic and extreme right wing that threatens the human rights of the world. We want an ecological country, committed to fighting climate change and green energy transition. And that, president and vice president, requires a development model change, not a continuation in the development model; a change in the development model. In those activities that degrade, unbalance and depopulate the territory, which increase gas emissions, which drain natural resources, which increase energy demand, which massify tourism, which promote real estate and urban speculation. And we need, in change, an increase in the economy of the services of the cures, of the sanitation, of the education, of the culture, of the knowledge, an increase of the support and the promotion of the pages and the food sovereignty, an increase of the social and solidary economy, an increase of the green energy transition, with a production and distribution of renewable energies decentralized and of proximity, respectful with the territory, democratic and public. A socialist country, yes. And I do not obviously refer to that of the PSC, which socialism has long since forgotten. I am referring to a country in which the ownership of strategic, energetic infrastructure, digitization and communications, common assets, territory, housing, basic services, means of producing the necessary assets for life are in public hands and democratic. A country with the sector and public work as the engine of the economy. A self-centered, green, feminist and compromise economy with the territory, based on decent, stable and quality work, with a fair and equal distribution of wealth. A country where Catalan language occupies the normal place that corresponds to it: it is common language among all the people and communities of our territory. And to make this model change possible, president, vice president, that's what you don't do. Three necessary and essential conflicts that can be faced: to plant for the bank, for the energy companies and for the fund to return to hold in public the resources and basic services – energy, water, the common benefits, housing and the strategic infrastructures of our country – and to put them at the service of the lives of people, workers, the preservation of the territory and the ecological balance. And, on the other hand, while the price of the light continues to rise, Endesa continues to demand from many vulnerable families the payment of outstanding bills, with a deal with the Generality for which this injustice and illegitimate debt, instead of being assumed by the company, should be compensated for by the Generality. Unrighteous and embarrassing. To plant in front of the State – according to conflict that they do not address and that they should address – to defend the sovereignty of this Parliament when, if it comes, against the Government and the Spanish Constitutional Court, it takes decisions and laws in favour of the social and economic rights of workers and of the popular classes, of the public economy, of energy and food sovereignty, of the right to housing and decent work, of the fair distribution of wealth and of the defense of land and life. Third conflict that they don't face and face: face the 78th rule to exercise self-determination and absolve independence, because we can't fill all these changes, we won't be able to absolve all these goals, if we continue under the guise of the Spanish State and in the guises of the Constitution and the State. And from these three conflicts there was a _quart, also indispensable: the struggle against repression, the one that sees from the State and the one that sees, also, from the Generality. And the absolvement of amnesty, essential to guarantee the democratic, civil and political rights of everyone. That the Catalan institutions are a wall, an unbreakable wall in defense of the collective, social, economic, civil and political rights of everyone, before the State and the 78's rule, and the economic oligarchies and financing predators, before the bank, the energetic companies and the returnable foundations. We wanted to interpret the results of the 14th February elections as a scenario that would allow us to take some steps forward and make some progress in these changes and objectives in this transformation. We saw an opportunity for a political double turn in the Catalan Parliament and in the Government of the Generality: a left turn and an independent turn. That's why we came to an agreement with Esquerra Republicana for his investiture, President Aragonès. And we wanted to join forces for Catalonia in the compromise of a new democratic struggle with the State to exercise self-determination in this legislature. Subratllo, I suppose they remembered from memory the text of the agreements: "A new democratic struggle to exercise self-determination in this legislature. President Aragonès, Vice President Puigneró, you and your Government are very, very, very far away from these commitments. For what it does to the emergences in repressive and housing matters, some small advances in the repressive descalation of the Generality and the smallest, still, in the guarantee of the right to housing. The bulk of the generality's private accusations, however, are in short supply and the charges persist. This week, a mountain, all of Catalonia. In the other areas, some timid preliminary steps in universal basic income and in promoting public energy. We would like to point out that these two projects are, in their programme, the proposal of the CUP - A New Cycle for Guanyar. When the CUP affects it, things change, and change for good. And more. The remaining commitments of the agreement to its investment are simply incomplete or, at last, questionable. Where is the moratorium on renewable macro-projects in the hands of big energy corporations that attack the territory? They just said no, they just said no to one of the investment agreements. Where is the deprivation of health and education? Where is the protection of the right to housing, just a few days after the supposed moratorium on denudations is over, and now that Berlin marks the way forward for us? Where's the municipal water management promotion? Where's the Olympic Games consultation, President? ; before formulating and before defending the candidacy, not later. Where is the defense of Parliament's sovereignty at the time of defending rights? When you – certainly, as the common ones –, in the case of the stability of the interns, in this Parliament say one thing but to Madrid they do another. Or when they allow the Squadron Mosses to remain involved in the denunciations of vulnerable families. You're the same today. And where is the compromise and preparation for a new democratic engagement with the State to exercise self-determination? You, President Aragonès, and your government are playing the card of disengagement from the conflict. The letter of the confrontational descalation. And they are stabilising the current state and autonomous institutional framework. Even more, President Aragonès, you are using the Government of the Generality to serve the country, but from your bilateral agenda with the PSOE, and raising to the category of dialog and negotiation of the resolution of the conflict to that which is nothing more than a monologue of the Spanish Government, denying self-determination and denying amnesty day by day. And what's the price? Give in to repression and threats. Give up the conflict and the sobriety. Moreover, this deactivation of the conflict contributes to normalizing repression, President Aragonès. There's never a dialog while he's repressing it. More. That's the tree. That's the tree. President, Vice President, self-determination will win by destabilizing the State and delegitimizing its powers, not supporting it, as well as aligning us with the interests of Development. To legislate and govern defending the social and economic rights of the majority, the struggle against climate change. And I can make no sense that the State and the Constitutional Court mark our limits. This will also have a consequence: it will make clear that many rights do not fit in the Spanish state. President, Vice President, you are not the one who imposes these limits on us. You start doing what Jordi Pujol consecrated, which is confusing the country with the party. And you, Vice-President, also began to assemble by using the government to refer to the old alliances of Convergence and Union with the economic oligarchies. If not, how is your paper calling on the State to expand the airport? Remember? When the state said no, you were going to ask for it to be enlarged. A State airport in Catalonia – a State airport in Catalonia. Or supporting the expansions of Reus and Girona, against all the common sense of ecologic, economic and social, but also against the common sense of independence, further aggravating our dependence on the State in strategic infrastructures. And don't forget that before they have a PSOE, with the PSC in Catalonia, that they are a foundational pillar of the 78's rule. The PSOE is not a critical game with the rule. It's a structural pillar of the regime. They loyally support the corrupt monarchy and its emeritus; they defend the interests of the great capital and the funds of reversal to the bank in the face of the fundamental rights, such as the right to housing or a decent job; they increase the trade in the sale of weapons at the cost of bloody conflicts from the world; they maintain the fraudulent trade in energy companies and the stealers of power and gas prices, and private water management. Mr. Illa – I see it's not there, but I hope it explains it – are good butlers of Ibex 35. There's no doubt about it. I'm sure it's a switch from the corresponding rotating doors. They support and endorse repression, maintain the labour reform of the People's Party and Convergence and the law bites. Now, moreover, supported by Can and the commons, who now support the regime, vote against the stability of the interiors, deny the right of self-determination and amnesty, and refuse the referendum. They have become the great recyclers of the socio-vergency proposals of 2013. Proposals that we have already launched the history paper, you are now going, grab them and put them back on the table. And labor reform and law bite and control of the legislature in the hands of the right and the extreme right. You claim that self-determination has no place in a democratic resolution of the conflict. Do they know what's impossible? What is impossible is to make real political changes to the left in the mark of the 78th Regime. That's impossible. Join to defend the social rights that the Constitutional Court falls on us, join to referendum. Only on the basis of the breakdown of the 78th Regime can we build a truly solid and real left-hand alternative. And for what you're doing on the investment agreement, president, we were going to complete. And you're President of the Generality. But you, Republican Left and your government, are not complete, are not complete, and you know it. In the next few days we'll talk about assumptions, Counselor Giró, because we haven't started talking about it. We'll talk about it in the next few days. So, look, if they want us to talk about it, they'll be fulfilling their investment commitments. Because we're talking about it, they're coming up with the compliment folder on the investment commitments. They have a few days to catch up, but they still have a few. But if you want to talk more about assumptions than you want us to negotiate them, you'll have to do a hundred-and-a-half degree tour in which until now you feel your strategic priorities: expansion of the airport, winter Olympic games, Formula 1 and Barcelona World. Some expanded assumptions, President, some assumptions that increase the total amount of the assumption in case they do not want to say anything, when what they end up feeling, mostly or mainly, a transfer of public money to private capital, which has no other objective but to maximize benefits. You will have to complete with your commitment to invest in a social, feminist, green and democratic program. The investments, the increase in the presupposition and the expansion of the presupposition, as in the case of the European foundations Next Generation, can redirect them to the public service and to the stabilization of its plants, to the public economy as a motor of the economy, to health, education, housing, social rescue, universal basic income, culture, knowledge, public transport, energy sovereignty, green energy transition, digital sovereignty, social and solidarity economy, food sovereignty, a public land bank, territorial balance and the fight against climate change. And, of course, this game was accompanied by the creation of a public bank and a just and progressive tax reform because the rich paid more and the poor, less. If we have to talk about assumptions, what we want to talk about is that. The premise, however, is also an instrument for governance and its stabilization, obviously. It is, therefore, an instrument to serve a strategy, a focus of the legislature. And we also want this legislature to be in the service of the exercise of self-determination and the acquiescence of amnesty and, therefore, of the necessary conflict and the indispensable confrontation with the State to win the new battle. We know that the nature of the Spanish State and the 78 regime and the current international context make it possible only to exercise self-determination, to absolve amnesty and independence by means of a great democratic conflict with the State, by means of a great democratic revolution with the State, not from law to law, not in the current limited legal framework for the Constitution and the State. A new cycle of mobilization and disobedience sustained over time is essential and indefensible. It's about delegitimizing the state to legitimize independence. And to do that, the government has to be with the common sense. And the common sense is the popular movement and it's the organized people who defend the rights of the majority before the powers of the State and the Promotion. The mobilization of the Diada, the one of September 19 against the expansion of the airport and the one of solidarity with President Puigdemont against his detention are hopeful of this recovery of the mobilization and of the independent struggle. Let us hope that the proper mobilizations of '1 and 3 October will also confirm this hope. If we don't, we'll do what we can so that's it. We don't have to misrepresent this hope, we don't let it down and make it grow. We believe that it is a widely shared view that the table has been an absolute failure, President. Honestly, honestly, huh? I don't think there's anyone in this country who says the table was a success. I didn't even listen to it or read it. None. There is absolutely no one in this country who says that from this table will emerge the exercise of self-determination, referendum and amnesty. Because everyone knows that this is impossible, by definition. We have gone from skepticism to perplexity. The government, Esquerra Republicana and Junts used it to continue with the party battles of little flight and Sánchez left Barcelona with a smile and triumphal smile after the find to make the coffee with Mr. Illa. A table without an agenda, without a defined mark, no self-determination or amnesty, no horizon or alternative political proposal that holds the State. An absolute disaster. And we can't afford to embarrass the country in this table. They can't. The country doesn't deserve it. The repression continues at a galloping pace: Tamara Carrasco, the CDRs prosecuted for terrorism, the Bureau of Parliament prosecuted for their work or the arrest of President Puigdemont. And the state doesn't think about amnesty or self-determination. For us and for the country it is urgent to get out of this atzucac and, therefore, the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning we put on the table a new reference of self-determination. I have the political intelligence to use this motion for a resolution as an element of pressure on the mark of the dialog table. It is necessary to generate an incentive so that the international community, like the Spanish State, has to assume that self-determination and amnesty are the only option to resolve the conflict democratically. And this requires returning to a cycle of conflict in defense of our collective rights. To put an end to repression and to reject the limits imposed by the State in the current stage of dialogue so as to make inevitable, indefensible, irreversible a real and effective phase of negotiation based, now, on the exercise of self-determination. But, for that, we need to face the conflict. For this, it is necessary to create conditions so that international actors, so that the same Spanish State has to give in to the reference, to self-determination and to amnesty as the only possible solution. A reference is the mobilising, organizing and democratic political framework, and this demonstrates to us the U of October, which allows us to articulate the awareness, willingness, strength, popular struggle and international legitimacy needed to force a real and effective dialogue and negotiation. To put the reference or place it clearly in this legislature generates, on the other hand, the conditions to place the State and the international community tense and mobilising. It is not supposed to place the conflict in an untapped street intentionally for both sides. Referendum is the most tense element in the state. It is useful as the pressure element on the dial table mark, draws a horizon for the country, is readable for the international community. But there is still one more important element to take into account: Scotland has planned to hold a new self-determination referendum in 2023. After Brexit, it's very likely that yes is this time a clearly winning option. Therefore, we know that in a short time the debate on self-determination, on the reference, on the right to independence will once again occupy the centre, will form part of the centre of the international debate and also in the European Union. On this occasion, the Catalan people, independence cannot disapprove of it, it would be a hard mistake to do so. That we synchronize our agendas with Scotland. President, put given to the reference; do not miss the train of Scotland. Put it down and it's before 2025. And from there, from there, then, we build and organize the building from the street and from the institutions. To put the tape of the reference is to put us in the common sense majority. This is a majority consensus in this country, that this conflict will be resolved by voting; that the democratic resolution of this conflict passes through self-determination. And the celebration of a referendum to resolve this conflict is a common place in the international community, given the experience and if we compare ourselves to conflicts of a similar nature. Therefore, we place the tape, we place in the center the proposal of the reference, this proposal that the U of October teaches us that we are able to last it to term and we are able to win it. Therefore, we create the conditions to do so and to win it and to apply the results. And that's what we have to do from now on. Miri, you're exploring what you want. We already tell them that, as much as they explore, from this table of dialog in the current conditions do not bring a drop of water. But, meanwhile, we do not waste time and replace the conjunction of the independence movement. Place them. And the combination of the movement and society of this country that it considers that this will be resolved by voting, to begin to prepare the conditions of mobilization, of struggle, of conflict, of confrontation, of the street, of institutions, so as to create an irreversible and indefusible scene of democratic resolution of the conflict that passes to vote, to exercise self-determination. Put date to the reference and activate the full independent route again. President, President Aragonès, Vice President Puignero, we will find ourselves face to face, they will find us face and face with the punch closed if they claudiate before the State and renounce the conflict and confrontation, if they keep the Generality on the side of repression and denunciation, if they continue with their current socio-vergent policies, if they do not fulfill their investment commitments. President, make a turn of one hundred and twenty degrees and truly face firm, solid commitments to a social change, feminist, green, democratic, independent. He'll find us. And this turn, President Aragones and Vice President Puignero, is not possible in the state. It's not possible. Neither alliance with the oligarchies nor with Foment, Vice President. These alliances only generate dependence and depredation on the country and its people's rights. We didn't come to strengthen autonomy or the regime, we didn't come to perpetuate the system, and that's why it doesn't count. They'll find us in opposition, always. We are here to transform the country. They want to be alternative and hope. We fight to rescue life and the earth from the capital, to stop the few from doing so, to overthrow the rule and the monarchy, to implement justice and equality, to gain the independence of our people. To do this, they'll find us with their hands extended. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.7.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone, especially the President, thank you for your extensive intervention yesterday. Yes, I have to tell you, President, that I have the feeling – and I don't think I speak only in my name but a few, I would say that most of us listened to him – that we had the feeling that this film had already seen him. You came here, made a follow-up of proposals. There's one part – and I want to point out – of the score that may be fine, but it's that after this score it has to be played by an orchestra, which is its government and this government, this orchestra can't sound more out of tune. In fact, if we look well, only the drums of war, the war of Vietnam, between Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana that already wished, that already anticipated his companion Joan Tardà during the months that we were going to be pending from his legislature. Because we are not fooling ourselves, in this hemisphere, there is an elephant – some groups have referred to it that preceded me – but it is that the elephant is said to be broken government. A government that can't move forward, because it's broken and you've been making the journey back as far as the most difficult..., even harder and possibly this follows the motif for which in these four_months you have already started to fail a good part of the proposals, of the proposals that you made during your investment debate. I already imagine it's very difficult to be in conflict and rule, but it's the country that needs it, and we have to say it that way, and let's say it with sadness. And we did it with sadness because we could imagine what would happen; surely what we couldn't sense is that it would be so quick, right? And it's only been a hundred days. It's that in a hundred days you've had enough to start the december. You, in your investiture debate, but also yesterday, talked a lot about transforming – I think you said a hundred and fifty times the word transformation. But then, if we look at the proposals he makes, it's continuity. You have only needed a hundred days to confirm the worst prognostic relations between the partners; you have only needed a hundred days for Mr. Puignero, the vice president, to end up accusing Esquerra Republicana of frivoles, according to the expansion of the Prat airport. But it's also a hundred days, President, because you've just left your members to lie, for what it does to the composition of the dial table, to lie, or to the title of the Moncloa – I don't know, I don't know what's worse. They've only been there a hundred days because the Speaker of Parliament has said that the dial table is an slogan and that the alternative is unilaterality. And it's back to the dial table, because I know it's a strategic line for you – they know it's a strategic line for us too. And to the meeting that a few days ago there was, so I, unfortunately, have to say that you went alone, with all the « love and respect for Councillor Torrent and Councillor Vilagrà, but it was that neither your members of government nor your members of the investiture, who were demonstrating on the street and against. And I have to tell you that before this situation, we could fall into the storm – and I have to tell you that the storm is great – to blame Together for Catalonia, right? , of the situation we have now and surely of those that will come later. But if we go into detail, if we look at it well, we have to think: is it the responsibility of Juntes for Catalonia or is it the highest authority of this Government of the Generality? Because, President, we will never question – never – that you are the highest authority, and we will never question that when you went a place is representing the joint venture of the Catalan society. But it is that this has derivatives and has important consequences. And, therefore, that you follow the highest authority of the Government of the Generality also means that, ultimately, you are the most responsible for what you do, do and do not do this Government of the Generality. And why should I see that this feeling of treachery and disgovernment, of degradation is not only our thing, it is not just the ordinary thing, but I would like to make a short rest from what some of our country's leading opinionors have said, some of our leaders in the last few days. Look, on September 15, Laura Rosel, in the morning of Catalonia Radio asked: "Can Left and Together continue to rule folds after the trek of the dial table? The same day, on September 15, Jordi Basté, to « El devantal, from El mondo to RAC1– a front that, moreover, thanks very much to the title, which is said « From Richard to Bernarda – said textually: « The Catalan government must have thought that everything is allowed, to make the ridiculous. And, at another point, he continued: "The battle between each other, with all the usual trenchers, which we already knew, was to show the world that they look at us from the middle of the track. But what's worse is setting up an institution like the government of the generality as everyone's electoral defender. What a way, what a way to discredit oneself and to make a monumental ridiculous, the Basté said. But on September 19th, Lola García, deputy director of La Vanguardia, already anticipated: "Aragonès lives his first great crisis with Junts. The rivalry is still on the rise. And he said, "I'm sure it won't be the last one, referring to the last crisis. And I also want to end on September 16th, an article to the French-Marc Álvaro Digital Nation, tougher still – came to qualify his government as a zombie – and said the French-Marc Álvaro: « The Aragones government is sentenced. You can keep pulling like a zombie, but that'll scare the hell out of you. Why am I telling you all this, President? So I am saying this because I see that it is not an interested view, not my own nor the opposition – with the permission of the rest of the parliamentary groups – but that it has become a common place in our country that you can stretch this government as much as you want, you can stretch it like a cup until it is tired, but what is clear is that in these four months, from the moment we have seen that you are not at the height of what Catalonia needs and deserves, and, moreover, at a time of the greatest complexity that we need all the energies to be able to see as far as we are from this stronger, with more embrace and not less affection and backward, that is what we see going through. So, what do we need? So I just need to straighten up the course and not re-sweep one time and another time and another time on the same rock. As I said before, and given that this is a general policy debate and therefore a balance debate, also... – we know that the balance is small because you carry four_months – but we have reviewed the proposals that you made to the investment debate and we have also looked at its degree of compliment, and, as you will see, what I said to it: score and music do not just marry. Let's start with the three great commitments that you have made: the response to social emergence, promoting transformative economic reconstruction with a new product model – I want to insist on the new one, because then they see that again it is very little – and respond to the political conflict with the State. Point 1, social emergence. Your government has committed a social security plan of €700_million for the first hundred days. You came here yesterday and wanted us to believe that distributing the money that the State had sent to the economic sectors most affected by the pandemic was the social shock plan. So I don't think I'm the one who has to say that this isn't a social shock plan – you know perfectly well, that they bring the government a few years. Point 2, new production model. For now – I don't know whether to laugh or cry, because it's quite dramatic – Winter Olympic Games for 2030. I'd like to make a mistake, but 2030, if we can be playing platja volleyball, I think we can celebrate. More: the Hard Rock, also to Tarragona – this again has very little. And after you have also joined this time of expanding airports, increasing emissions by one-third, and bringing in more than 20 million passengers– this can be green. They'll explain it to me. I'm telling you, I think if it isn't that these 20 million more tourists that you wanted to carry came to buy electric boats, we don't see transformation or innovation here. And what's more, what's the most criminal is that Republican Left has captivated, wanted to sell this new plan of government as the most transformative of history. Really? Really, Republican Left Companions and Companions that is the most transformative plan of government in history? Is it true that some winter Olympic games can be transformative? Really that expanding an airport, at some point, can be green? Is making the biggest casino in Europe really transformative? I don't see it – I don't see it. And look if the model of the totxo, of the platter, of the casino is old that has already failed on countless occasions. And the last was, therefore, during the pandemic. Between July 2019 and July 2021 Catalonia lost 1_million_i_mig of foreign tourists. And this has had some negative consequences for the Catalan economy, and therefore for Catalans and Catalans. And I ask them: do they think we can play it again? Really? Because I'm convinced that I don't, I'm pretty sure that I don't. And that's why overcoming this monoculture of tourism is that it's no longer a wish, it's a social and economic empire. And now I want to move on to the third point of the objects that you were marked in the investiture, and it was the table of the dialog, a table from which you know that we are defenders, we are impulses and that we will work as much as anyone else so that this works. I've spoken before, but I'd love to add a couple more points. The first one. Look, I don't like this phrase, I don't like people – and I think that with the journalist still less – and it's: "An image is worth more than a thousand words – people, I like it. But it's true. I think it's inevitable to quote her here. The photo of the Catalan delegation of the dial table was very dazzled, very dazzled. And I've already told you that, for us, unlike what their partners may think, they're not too used to losing power, for us, there was the government, there was the government represented, not only was the Republican Left, but, of course, it was an affluent government. It's that this is a two plus, four; I mean, it was basic. And the consequence of that – and that's the second point I want to do – is that the problem with this government fever is not just his problem, it's that this fever can end up feeling the fever of Catalans and Catalans. Why am I saying that? So why are we playing a lot in this dialog table, playing the conquests of our own years, some conquests that know that for us they go through to de-judicialize the conflict, for the recognition of Catalonia as a nation, to expand the competition mark and to tend more self-government, for a new model of finance and for an agreement voted for the Catalans and the Catalans. And here I also want to insist: these conquests do not lead us away from the time; these conquests propitiate us, even though some who want to go to the "when worse, better..., so well, these conquests propitiate us to the time of the referendum pact and of the plurinational republic for Spain". They take us there, they don't take us away. This "as worse, I don't know if it works at home, but in Catalonia it doesn't. And also take advantage to refer to what happened this week with the arrest and subsequent inn on the liberty of President Puigdemont. I believe that what has happened this week is the best evidence, it is the best evidence, it is the best finding, that we must continue to advance in the dialog – it is essential –; a dialog that has to tend as the proper necessary steps and urgently reform the crime of sedition. A dialog, I want to insist, that it is inevitable, because, Mr. Batet – and I refer to you as the chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Joints for Catalonia –, the dialog table will end up benefiting all of us, even those who do not believe in it, even those who work continuously to derail and boost this dialog table. And why? So because the dialog table responds to a country interest, it does not respond to a party interest. And so, even though I don't like them, this table of the dialog will end up benefiting all of us, including those who don't believe in it. Come back, President. I regret to say this: therefore, of the three objectives that you commented on in the investment debate, the response to social emergence has incompleteed it, we have not seen the social shock plan by place; of the new model produced in other things, it is continuousist–, and of the dialogue with the State I must tell you that we have seen an affluent Catalan delegation. But I want to follow, if we stick to the small letter, I want to continue looking at some of the proposals. Comprehensive plan for mental and emotional health, and, moreover, prioritizing young people. For the moment we have not seen it– for the moment we have not seen it–, when we are in a moment, I think that the situation is so difficult that we are unable at this very moment to grasp who has been the real impact of the pandemic on the mental salvation of the citizenry. It's true, I'm aware that you approved the suicide prevention plan, but I also want to say it: I would think if a 061 strained and precarious is the best instrument. He thought about it. In the third place, also in questions related to salvation, they said that they would work to internalize some of the services that were outsourced. In concrete terms, health transport i 061. So it's not that they didn't do it, it's that when we listened to the greeting counselor, Mr. Argimon, he said that this didn't ask him, that he didn't have it on the agenda. I don't know if we need to improve internal communication. They also promised, in the field of education, that the ratites would be reduced, that the plants would be stabilized and that they would guarantee the gratuity of the zero-three stage. Well, we've had teachers, teachers who until two days before starting the course don't know who they were. The breakdown of vocational training has been absolute; I recognise that you have also admitted it, but the solution you are giving is to subcontract seats in concerted centres. I'd plan if that's the best option. And, in the third place, the other day at the Education Commission, to our surprise, the counselor said that for the gratuity of the zero-three stage at the end what they would end up doing is, in a way, subsidizing families for going to school in Bressol. Total, let these money end up in private bressol schools. That's not strengthening the public, that's strengthening the private. And I also want to remember: Republican Left brought Education to the previous legislature. I mean, we don't need that of "no, it's that we arrive, this was in the hands of Junts for Catalonia, and so we have found ourselves, and now we have to say, no; it's that Mr. Bargalló is from Esquerra Republicana, and therefore you – and, moreover, it's that Mr. Cambray was already part of Mr. Bargalló's team – I knew perfectly well what the situation was. But keep going. You promised that you would guarantee through yield policies that no one would lose their habitat. We haven't seen it yet, but we've introduced a change in guaranteed citizenship income, precisely to include housing benefits, and what have you done? Do you know what they've done? We've been presented with a piece of paper to the whole world. Therefore, neither fan nor let it go. And if we keep moving forward, in terms of reindustrialisation, work and economic transition, then we're not moving forward. You spoke to us about the pact for the ecological transition and for a green economy – at the moment we don't know... –; about the transformation of the automotive sector, it's true that you yesterday – and I appreciate it – dedicated a few minutes of your speech, but it's concrete, what they are concrete, we don't see. By the way, the Government of the Botanic announced on Monday that the Generality, with a private company, was going to set up a factory of electric drums; they will generate thirty_ thousand places of work in the Valencian country. For me this is the show of leadership and transformation, and not the grey agenda that you are explaining to us with the Olympic Games, with the casino and with the airport. So, as I said, you up here in Parliament, teach us a score... There's no part that we can please, but it's that the music that sounds is quite different. And while – while – unfortunately, the country is still waiting. And I'd like to make a pair of brushes. The first is that, as well as economic recovery, the Catalan economy is losing momentum, and so you tell us the relationship between GDP per capita at home and with the European Union. The other day, I could listen to the councilman who said, well, that we were doing well and that macroeconomic figures, right? – he listened to the radio – so they gave us a good trend. Well, they're macroeconomic figures. This hasn't affected yet, it hasn't reached the Catalan and Catalan buttocks. And what's the current situation? So the inequalities and the poor are growing. We have every time more millionaires and every time more people in a poor situation. What do we propose? After that, I will come up with proposals, but I do want to make one: just as since the central government we have been increasing the minimum wage, which I think we have to go much further, since Catalonia we could be pioneers in a maximum wage. And then I'll go in and explain what the proposal is. But I would also like to talk about the nine generations, the nine generations that these months have had to listen to everything, absolutely everything. In fact, there are some who have tried to equate youth with crime. Well, first of all, it's important for us not to generalize. Why am I saying that? So because there are thousands and thousands and thousands of young people who have gone out of the party and returned to their home peacefully. And this has been taken advantage of by a very small group of impresentables that they have dedicated themselves to making vandal acts. So don't generalize. But it's that he'd go more there. It's just that there are some that even now it's not that they criminalize the youth in general, it's that they have gone to put the focus on the collectivists who are still in a situation of greatest vulnerability. To equate insecurity with immigration is intolerable and is racism. And here we should all conjure up so that we don't let these hate messages pass, because, if we don't build a counter-relationship, every time we find ourselves getting stronger. I would go further; I would go further on this subject of youth. It's been a year and a half since we've been living with restrictions, and I think we've done a lot of time to hear, to assume, that we have to go to work and study, but I think it's hard to understand that we can't just live working and studying, that we need to recover social relationships, that we need to go there, that we need to get rid of, that we need to want our equals. And of course, you did, didn't you? They don't like them... or they don't like to see pictures of young people, thousands of young people, drink alcohol at other hours of the morning. And I want to ask you a question: what are you offering them? Who's the alternative he's giving himself? What's the proposal they're making? What exactly do you want them to do? Are you proposing that you stay home with your peers looking at Netflix covered with the blanket facing the screen? Is this the proposal you're making? Because we don't see an alternative. Right now it's not offering anything. And so, president, I ask you to urgently present and prepare a plan, a plan to diversify the oci. You're urgent. Because it's not that he's not doing this government, it's that he's never done it by a government of the generality. It's been many years since that, the government of the generality. And in a situation like today, it's urgent. Therefore, we must make the culture accessible to young people, either by lowering prices or by improving them; we must jointly, with youth associations, with couples, enhance those activities that they and they want, and we must also create public institutions that are open to us to diversify options and help us to deconcentrate. Because life is so much more – much more – than getting up, going to work, going to study and going home, right? Because, as the song said, we want the pa, but we also want the roses. And if we're talking about the father of the nine generations, especially the thirty-first generation, the situation is worrying: only one of every five has been able to emancipate from their peers' homes; one of every one who works in a situation of low wages and temporality. And that means two things, basically: so, on one side, that the social ascent has broken down and, on the other, that we are losing talent, we are losing talent at the stream. And that's not a problem; that means that the education system isn't working; that means that we're playing for inequality; that means we have a product model that's out of date, and that means, too, that we're not giving them the opportunity to build their vital project. Because, plus – plus – you were talking about talent yesterday, too. Well, it's the talent we have, but it's not the non-res. It is that talent is to be empowered and given opportunities, and opportunities are to be given to public. In short, Catalonia has the potential and what we are now, therefore, leading. And if you, I'm telling you, too, you're busy fixing the broken dishes of your bars, so it's important that this Parliament works harder than ever to recede the course of Catalonia. And today we also... and, in fact, yesterday in the faristol I said, we wanted to come up with proposals. It was important, because before a situation that you don't like, it's very easy to complain and keep your arms open, but I am convinced that citizenship pays us and votes us because we too are being proactive and trying to retrace the course of this Catalonia, so we see that it's not right. And that is why we come with projects, and above all because before a generality, a government of the Generality, that we see either passed or we see continuity, it is important for this Parliament to remain entrepreneurial. You also made reference to an economist who likes us very much, to Mariana Mazzucato, but this philosophy is not seen by the president. That is why I say, before a government of the Generality that is passing or continuing, this Parliament must be entrepreneurial. We have brought three very concrete plans, three plans with one objective, to say again, that it is to re-establish the direction of Catalonia, and there are three proposals that we obviously have available to all the parliamentary groups to work hard from here. The first, Pla Catalunya is active. It is a plan to put an end to the vital precariousness of a whole generation and has several points: impulse to youth emancipation. For example, I say again: in Valencia they have a tourist tax that is finalist, and the money they collect is to help and boost, to encourage the emancipation of young people. But there are many more mechanisms that we can think of among all. Arrive at fifteen_percent of public housing. These figures we have given to know more than once, but I think it is important to remember them. In front of the fifty floors of public housing that the Generalitat is making, the Barcelona Assembly is making no more than two_thousand. How many floors do you need? What did this fifteen_percent of public housing mean? There are 346,000 habitats. If we project it in twenty years..., that we would already like it out before, but if we look at it in twenty years, that means 17,300 habitats in the year, and that has a presuppositional impact of 328_million euros a year. It's in our abast. You can do it. What else? Fight early school drop-out. We know there's a plan, but we also know that the plan doesn't work, and it doesn't work because one thing is the words and the other thing is the resources that go to it. So, now that you are theoretically negotiating – or not, we don't know – the assumptions of the Generality, there is no objective that is marked, not for us, but that is marked by the law of education of Catalonia, which is the sixth_per_cent of GDP. So let's go. Also create the youth work mobility office with the aim of supporting the young emigrant who has seen economic exile and facilitating its return. Let's talk about talent, so we carry all the talent that went away because I couldn't survive here. And to reduce, of course, precariousness and unequal pay. The second pla: pla Catalunya just. It is a plan to fight inequality, to rebalance the balance and, obviously, also to keep public services strong. What do we propose? Increase the tax pressure on the deu_per_cent by a percentage point – this is important: the deu_per_cent – more rich. We're talking about the estate tax – I can see that Mr. Canadell doesn't have much illusion. The measure of the maximum wage. What do we mean by that? Right now there are places where the directions cover a hundred times more than the workers and the workers. It's that you're directly indecent. I don't know what it looks like to you, but it seems to me that it's to throw your hands at the head. So, what are we proposing? You want to push your paycheck? Well, this has to be proportional, and it's one way that benefits are distributed not only up to the top, but down to the bottom. What else do we propose? Increase recap for successions and donations. This tax Convergence will be charged practically in 2012. We recovered it in the 2020 presupposition negotiation. It was one of the conditions that we put in for our abstention, and we think we can still go a little further. And why are we proposing all this? So why do we want a Catalonia where salvation, education, dependence are still public and strong, where the citizenry can exercise its right to culture and why do we want a country of happy people and a welfare system that remains close to a European country of the 21st century. And, in the third place, the Pla Catalunya Verda – the Pla Catalunya Verda – to make an ecological transformation that is already unaffordable. What are we talking about? So we're talking habitat rehabilitation. We are talking about a law of green barrels to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. It would not only generate jobs, it would also lower the price of housing and would have to take advantage of it in order to do so with European foundations. Public energy. You have announced it, you have it in the "more transformative government program of history, but you should tell us how and when. I think it would be interesting and, besides, also know that Barcelona already has tea on the go, so we can share experiences. Transformation of the automotive and transport sector. I must say again, he didn't say anything to us yesterday. If we have, by the way, the battery factory, that would be 300,000 jobs. It's barbaric. Follow him, they can't lose him. But not only that, but we have very serious shortcomings in Rodalies. We ask him to sit down and negotiate investments for Rodalies, because people are already tired of waiting and waiting hours so they can go to work or go home. And we also propose the full regulation of cannabis and cannabidiol. As you know, we will work at the Congress of Deputies on a bill – it will be done there – but it is important that Catalonia also accompany, that this Government of the Generalitat, that this Parliament of Catalonia also accompany. Because I don't know if you know that, but Catalonia is the largest distributor of cannabis in Europe. Therefore, this regulation would favor everyone and everyone, who they smoke and who they have never smoked or smoked before. It will benefit the camp, the export, the national industry, to reduce consumption among adolescents, to create occupation and to increase public entrances. Therefore, we see this as an opportunity to lead, to take advantage of the enormous potential of southern Europe as a producer of cannabis and also to accompany the necessary changes in the model produced, together with many other measures. So, as you see, there are three plans to ensure that while we have a government that is either passing or continuing, so there is a parliament that works more than ever and a parliament that is entrepreneurial. I'm done. President, you have to decide – you have to decide – if you continue as your predecessors – the majority – by watering down the few to the change that Catalonia needs or if it also adds to this need for real transformation, not just speeches, which is an empire. Not to say one hundred and fifty times' transformations pass; resources are needed, talent is needed, will be needed, dialogue is needed and, above all, alliances are needed and, above all, energies are to be put in there and not to put energies in the internal picarales. Therefore, I say this: before a government of the Generality that is now passing or continuing, this Parliament must react in order to straighten the course, and I also ask it not only for this youthful plan to diversify the oci, but also for it to add to the wave of real changes and transformations that the country requires. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... I would like to begin this speech by sending a message of encouragement and strength to all those who have been harmed by the eruption of the volcano in La Palma. In these circumstances it is when you notice the need for a state to deal with those who might have lost everything. And, Mr. Aragonès, you started your speech by saying that you want to complete the independence, the liberation of Catalonia. We this legislature will fight to culminate the liberation of all Catalans from this extractive elite, from this elite that embezzles public money, which imposes identity ideologies in the public media, in education, in administration, and on top governs as Pancho Villa's army. Therefore, I would tell you, take it easy on yourself to complete this independence, because you will never be able to do so, and I too will take it easy on you from the government, because I know that we will not be able to complete it, at least in the immediate months; but we will not fail. And then another thing I wanted to say to you is that you showed up yesterday, and it's amazing that the Spanish government doesn't get up from that blackmail table after listening to your speech yesterday. You said that we have to be the welfare republic of southern Europe and that you have found that this objective is not possible within what you call the 'Spanish State'. It is curious that I say this, because Catalonia was, until the beginning of the process, the spearhead of the Spanish economy, and one of the most developed economic regions of Europe. If we are rigorous, Mr Aragonés, the only thing we can see is that Catalonia has been doing very well as part of Spain, and in this democracy in which we have made a great deal of progress in freedoms, and economically as well. When you have started to go wrong, it is when you have thrown yourselves into the mountain, and you have begun the decadence of truth and demoralization in our land. And the proof of how bad we are is that the new president says he wants to transform the productive model and is going to do it by the hand of the CUP. This is to continue with the expulsion of companies, because it is to continue with political instability and legal uncertainty. And to launch this republic..., you to launch this republic presented us with a plan supposedly transformative, full of transformations: democratic, social, green, feminist. But these four months that you have been president of, what it takes us to doubt that you are going to carry out all these formations that you say. First, I would tell you that your Government is an unproductive and burned government as was the Government of Torra. No one has any doubt that you will not exceed the two years of the legislature, because you are prisoners of unstable pacts, both with your partner from Junts per Catalunya and with the CUP. And secondly, because in this government, the president says one thing and his vice president because we'll see what he says, that there's a lot of interest in seeing it, when you see what Junts per Catalunya says about what you said yesterday. At the moment, in the press conferences, the truth is that the reactions to his speech have been more or less lukewarm, if not critical. And that's because you're in a fight for independence. The 2017 legislature, Puigdemont ruled, and Esquerra Republicana pressed him until the other decided to jump into the void. And this legislature governs you, and Junts per Catalunya wants you to return them to Republican Left. And in the meantime, the UPC bites both of them's ankles, and presents delirious things, like the ones we'll see today in the chamber, also putting this new Bureau in check. Of course we will be in the defense of legality, as we have always been, as we have been before. But it is that the victim of all this battle between you for the independence space..., the victims are, therefore, the people and their families, who are waiting for them to have a future of greater prosperity of work, of a good economy, of social services that care for you, and hope to be duly attended to by the Generalitat. But in these months, we have only seen you negotiate amnesty and referendum, looking for money below the stones to see if you can cover the bails of the misers of public flow, but we have not seen you act at all with the jamming of waiting lists; or we have not seen you act at root with the problem of unemployment; or we have not seen you do anything in the face of the breakdown of nighttime leisure – yes, tightening the nuts –; nor have you acted in the face of the insecurity problems of so many neighborhoods of Catalonia, and you have not shown the political stature, Mr President, in the face of the possibility of the expansion of the Prat airport, letting escape an investment of 1,700_million_de_euros, which is transcendental for the Barcelona, Catalan and Spanish economy. I'd say... I've also heard Mr. Illa talk about the airport, which is a project very supported by socialism. We, Mr Illa, also support this enlargement. I am, in fact, convinced that there is a parliamentary majority in this House in favour of this enlargement. Of course we can and must talk about the environmental impact that this entails and fix as much as possible, but I am sure that, if we lock ourselves in a room, here is a sufficient majority not to miss this train of progress and economy again, as when we lost the Spanish Medicines Agency, already in the busy times of the process. That is why I would say to you, Mr President, that you do not tell us about changes that are not going to happen. Talk about things that are within reach and that we could do, and that you could do, and that we could also do among all. Look, I think you've had the luck in these first months of government that you've had a president of Spain who prestiged you in Madrid; just as González and Aznar prestiged Mr Pujol presenting you as a pragmatic and necessary man for the governability of Spain. But the reality is that you are the president who comes here saying that one of your main objectives is to culminate in independence, and you do things like having the flag of Spain removed in your appearances, offending millions of Catalans who feel attached to the rest of the Spaniards. Look, I'll explain to you, the Spanish flag represents freedom, equality among citizens, coexistence. It represents many good things in a democratic and modern country, and that is why I do not just like myself and the deputies of the constitutionalist parties represented here. The Spanish flag likes many people in Catalonia, Mr Aragonés. I don't know if it's that you don't understand it or your nationalist lock prevents you from seeing it, or it's that you don't care what others think and what the rest of your fellow citizens feel. Because when you order that you withdraw it to appear before the Catalans, you are reflecting a common practice of separatism: contempt for the symbols in which you do not feel represented; you, but who represent us all. All Catalans deserve to feel represented by the President of the Generalitat, Mr Aragonès. And you are no one to withdraw the Spanish flag. Neither you nor the mayors in the city halls. It is a totalitarian and offensive act for many of your fellow citizens. And of course, it is a scandal that Mr Sánchez agrees to meet and gives state treatment to you, which harasses everyone who feels Catalan, Spanish and European, with all the right to feel that way. And this is a scandal, but it's not the only scandal. For us too, it is a scandal that you skip court rulings; that you do not bet on trilingualism in teaching, which is the most modern and what is done everywhere. And we have two co-official languages and we should also add, as a vehicle, a foreign language. You don't say anything, you close your eyes, you look elsewhere, when the Taliban of the Catalan language harass with due public subsidies the merchants who serve you in Spanish. And look, it is also a scandal that seems to you well that the police station of Via Laietana is attacked with fire, that no one raises their voice against this. And then, in addition, here they propose to kick out the National Police of the Laietana Police Station and to create a museum of torture there. This is as if someone here reproached the Generalitat, this Generalitat, the Generalitat from 1978 onwards, so the tortures of the Badia brothers, for example – that, by the way, some of you are already going to their tributes, tortures and murders of the fascist Badia brothers – or the death sentences that Mr. Companies signed. What is this about inoculating hatred against the institutions representing Catalonia and Spain and all Spaniards in this way? What is it to blame the tortures of Francoism on the National Police of our democracy and to pretend to rewrite history in this way, as you do, indeed, Mr. Puignero, with the Museum of History and the Institute of Nova História? You nationalists are specialists in altering and rewriting history and sowing discord and division. Look, the crisis of authority. I believe... by the way, we have put forward an initiative for Mr. Sánchez to commit himself to maintaining the Head of the National Police on Via Laietana and to maintaining the presence of the State, the police station and the National Police. And I also wanted, as I speak of the National Police, to talk about the suffering Mossos d'Esquadra. Look, the crisis of authority that we are suffering in Catalonia, with macrobotellones that are uncontrollable, incivic and violent that attack the mossos without any kind of repair, happens in Catalonia. It happens here. Not in other parts of Spain, not in other big cities. It happens here. The twenty razor blades... by manifestation, or by cylinder, happen here. And that's because the principle of authority has been undermined here. Not only do you attack the National Police, but you empty the Mossos d'Esquadra of authority. Because you already, since you chose the government, did so under the sign of that pact with the CUP, which was trying to disarm the Mossos d'Esquadra. You have the Mosses left by the hand of God. They don't respect them, they don't equip them well, they're not legally protected from the attacks they're receiving. You cover up a gentleman like Mr. Vivet, who beat a mosso d'ésquadra to death, and the Mosso d'Esquadra have had to change his lawyer, because they don't trust the lawyers the Generalitat puts on them. It's a shame, it's not... Mr. Elena, it's a shame. And it is a shame that today it is known that the complaints made in the demonstrations have not been dealt with. And this gives an idea of how we are in Catalonia. Because this news, when they jump into a normal democratic country, would everyone say, that is, that there is a politician here who decides what is going on and what is not, apart from the laws? Then you are surprised that politics is being judicialized, if that is a prevarication like the glass of a pine tree. If that's typical of a police state. If that is typical of a state in which the executive branch believes that the law is marked by them. Please, having these things happen in Catalonia is a scandal. Following in the speech, Mr Aragonès, as I said, this government wants to transform absolutely everything, but so far it has only shown that it is as divided and burned as the previous one. You, in just four months, are already at war, as before the elections. And that is because their project is exhausted, because they have nothing to offer to the Catalans as a whole, rather than frustration and old promises, which will never materialize, as I have said. You are the same as always, with a single change or novelty, that has changed the leadership of the opposition and now, somehow, you are left a certain broad sleeve to make and undo at your will. I believe that Mr Illa, on this occasion, has joined the long tradition of the leaders of the PSC, who have squatted their heads in front of nationalism. Mr. Obiols squatted his head with Banca Catalana and assumed Pujol's speech, that that was not a..., that that was a general cause against Catalonia. Maragall squatted his head with three_per_cent, succumbed to the threats of Artur Mas, wanted to replace Pujol, with a unconstitutional statute, which had not claimed absolutely anyone. Iceta was the plumber of this ultranationalist statute. And now, we understand that Mr. Illa bends his head with the pardons and with paying bail to the embezzlers and with all that Mr. Aragonès asks. And this has been shown to me today by Mr Illa, when he made a speech very in technocrat costume, speaking, focusing exclusively on social and economic issues, so as not to touch on the issue of the process in which you are very uncomfortable. Because you, like Mrs Albiach, have seen yourself a moment ago, in what you want to focus on is this division of government, to see if you have a chance and assault the power and reach the power of the Republican Left hand in a tripartite. So many campaign promises, Mr Illa, to offer himself as a crutch of this nationalist government. In the opposition, we can all make mistakes, Mr. Illa. And we all commit them or commit them, but you can't give up one by four months of starting the legislature. I, Mr Illa, believe that 2017 was not a collective failure, as you insist on saying. And this is important that I tell you, because it is a message, also for the other side of the Chamber and for all Catalans. 2017 was not a collective failure. 2017 was the failure and culmination of policies of little respect for democracy, which began in the Catalan nationalist world. It was a failure of them, of the independenceists: of Esquerra Republicana, of Junts per Catalunya and of the CUP. And it was, yes also a failure of Zapatero and Rajoy. That they didn't know what was getting pregnant, or stop when I was already in advanced gestation. And it was a sound failure of the Socialist Party. And that's why it hurts me to see those failures of..., giving for their food to a nationalism that must be overcome, because I see it perpetuated. And that, I'm sorry as a Catalan. Because, Mr Illa, we are very clear that nationalism must be defeated. That we have had ten years of paralysis because of nationalism, not because of collective guilt. In any case, if you want to socialize guilt, maybe it's because socialism, really, has a lot to do with that guilt. And Mr. Aragonès, when I went to see him at the Palau de la Generalitat last July, I brought him eight proposals for coexistence. And you told me we were in the antepods. This time, we have tabled fifteen motions for resolutions, fifteen initiatives to make Catalonia again news for its successes and not for its campaign battles and for the nationalist politicians who skip the laws. I do not know if you would tell me that we are in the antipodes with measures to ensure the proper functioning of the administration of justice, measures for the interim administration, measures for the environment..., but we hope to gather the support of the rest of the groups, because we are sure that they are good policies for Catalonia. Some of the measures we consider essential are: in the health section, a collective effort to strengthen primary care. Indeed, you referred to and even gave figures of this Government's greater dedication to primary care. Sounds good to me. That's where we'll find a consensus. This is one of the issues on which we are very much concerned. We have been influencing that need for proper preparation of primary assistance for a long time. I also missed other issues. Like, for example, taking measures for that half of the health workers who are insecure, with a very high percentage of interns, 56.2_per_cent, in July 2001. And you also referred and patted the health care staff on the back of the house. And you also thanked your dedication, as well as the rest of the health care workers, but I remind you that we have already proposed that, beyond small strokes on the back, those people who have been cleaning up the hospitals, disinfecting the hospitals in the middle of the pandemic, who have worked at a standstill, deserve something more than small strokes on the back. They also deserve the same gratification as other workers in the health system, who have had it. You refused to vote in Parliament. I hope that those words of yours, which have been agreed in your speech, of this staff, will translate into the fact that..., in a new vote they do give economic support in addition to beatings on the back of these people, essential as the rest of the workers, each in their competences, in the health system. And at the moment we should also consider a tax reduction as a matter of urgency, more urgent than ever. But not a tax reduction to charge us the public and the welfare state, as it also seems that they want some parties in this chamber, but to improve competitiveness, improve the consumption of families, increase the collection in the long run and create wealth and, with it, opportunities for all. It doesn't make sense to have fifteen taxes of your own. The costs are very high. And in the end, it is paid by the usual, who are the Catalans on foot. People and their families, who already have enough problems, many of them, to get ahead and reach the end of the month. We need to create legal certainty and political stability, so that companies can return to Catalonia. We need to put science at the service of companies and generate innovation. If we look at the regional innovation scoreboard, we see how the data are demolishing. In the last ten years of the process we have lost jobs in innovation at all speed, in relation to other European regions. This should blow up all the alarms in Catalonia, but it looks like you don't care. We will see what management they make of Next Generation funds, because they are an opportunity for growth and progress and innovation. And with you in charge, then, you may not be. The truth is, you guys... it's really scary to think about how you're gonna distribute that money. I still remember how the covid funds went, precisely, to TV3 to the first change. Let's get serious about these issues, let's make a bet on innovation, also at the university's hand. And I'd tell Mrs. Geis, who I don't see around here, to do that and not other things. And look, very briefly. In the section on education. We are behind investment in education for gross domestic product. We are the penultimate autonomous community. Learn from our Government of Andalusia, where investment in education, in terms of GDP, is higher than Catalonia. And Mr. Gonzàlez Cambray, who I don't see around here either, would be better off dedicated..., dedicated his efforts to have a better education and not to see how we can skip the laws that defend our linguistic rights. The same with regard to language rights I would say to Mrs Geis – I see that neither of us is here, as members of the government – with universities. I'd tell him to do what's important, not act like we're in North Korea opening a nationalist academic course, like he did this week. Because it cannot be that you are so convinced of your hegemony supported, by the way, by the Sánchez government, that you do not even think that this is an immorality. In what state of democratic emergency are the Catalan universities, when their seven directors make manifest in favor of Puigdemont. It is incredible what is happening in this nationalist regime that you have implanted You should be blushing, Mrs Geis should be blushing if you say that three countries of the European Union have ruled that Puigdemont has not committed any crime. It reminds me of Torra here, too, when she said that Germany had excused her, that is, it is such a lack of knowledge of the laws by a lady who says that she is a law graduate and that she is a university teacher, that I, well, hallucinator, the truth. You lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, or you lie, it's an absolutely inexcusable ignorance. Well, and Mrs. Geis too – Mr. Batet, don't be nervous – insulted the Assembly for the bilingual school, insulted her, called them fascists because they had won her a sentence in terms of university entrance tests. It is incredible that this does not create responsibility on the part of one of the members of the Government and that it was not even left on TV3, where Mrs Geis had insulted, nor was there even an option to ask the Assembly for correction for a bilingual school, which was insulted. For this reason, in Ciutadans we are obliged to denounce your excesses, especially in the face of the passivity of the Socialist Party in the face of the cluster of excesses that you habitually practice. Look, in the rest of the autonomous communities, governments are concerned about the English level of children in a globalized world, unlike what is happening here, that English and Spanish, two of the world's major languages, are eradicated from the vehicularity of teaching. I would also like to refer, since we were talking about teaching, to the concerted school and to make a defense of the concerted school. That is all right, because you here also referred to the concerted school as a great achievement it will be that they are incorporated into the public system and thus burden the freedom of choice of parents, and that is something that I am not surprised that they are concerned about, because the concerted school is often the only counterweight we have to nationalist hegemony in the educational system. You need to indoctrinate the children with their history books, which then go the concepts..., then people go to the History Museum and don't miss anything you see there because you have already been taught at school with your books properly mediated. We want the agreed school to remain that counterweight to the one thought and we don't want to remain..., we want to remain that quiet option so that all parents who want the best education for their children are free to choose. We also ask the Government, and we will urge it to do so, to strengthen dual vocational training. 705 persons in a higher grade and 618 persons in a middle grade have been left without places. These things need not continue to happen if we reach consensus and take action. Since Ciutadans, too, we have repeatedly called for the free use of textbooks in compulsory education, but this legislature wants this same measure also to be introduced for middle and higher vocational training. FP exchange programmes must also be carried out with the rest of the autonomous communities as well as with Europe, through the Leonardo da Vinci and Erasmus Plus and Erasmus programmes. And rescue Martorell's Automotive Training Centre to turn it into a source of training and employment from which both SEAT and the auxiliary industry benefit. These measures want us to talk about parents and young people, not about processes, processes and more processes brought into the education system. Of course, there are the classics of enhancing the Mediterranean corridor, of aid measures for the nightlife sector, which must return to normality in order to be able to resurrect and, ultimately, what I tell you is that we have an alternative for this exhausted project, nothing more to start, from this government, an alternative to defending freedom, advancing social rights, regeneration and reforms. Look, Mr Aragonès, there's a lot of talk these days about Mr Puigdemont and some people are daring to say that you and the fugitive don't look alike, that they're very different politicians. And I think you guys are more alike than people think, because you could both subscribe to that Nixon phrase, which said, if the president does, then it's not illegal. Well, I'm telling you, just as we've stopped Mr. Puigdemont, we'll stop you if you eventually consume this anti-democratic fight because you're more independent than the CUP and that Junts per Catalunya. And you have no doubt that we will because we have democracy and the rule of law on our side. If your co-religionaries strike against democracy and give them impunity by the Government of Spain, for we resort to pardons. If Mr Aragonès claims that the ICF, with everyone's money, trusts the embezzlers, we will report them to the prosecution. If the PAU discriminates against Spanish-speaking students, we will fight for the coming year not to happen again; and, if necessary, in the courts. We will not be intimidated by saying that we are judicializing politics because we resort to the courts, which is the last barrier to defending and guaranteeing the rights and freedoms threatened by you. Most Members of this House prefer that we remain silent and helpless, just as Mr Sánchez's government prefers, but we in Ciutadans are not going to do so, because we represent that part of Catalonia which is very clear what is happening here and which is very clear that you cannot prevail by jumping over democratic laws and rules. That is why we were born, because they were, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, blind and deaf to what was developed in Catalonia with the Statute of 2006. All this was already happening before Ciutadans was born, and then the Catalans on foot were defenseless against their abuses, with the leaders of the Socialist Party and the PP trying to figure in Catalan politics to be admitted into the upper spheres of nationalism. But as long as Ciutadans exists, these people will always have those who defend them and offer solutions to their real problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.11.0	Then, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.12.0	Thank you very much, President. While overcoming the stupor that has caused the UPC to rise to the wheel of the procedural hamster, they had repeated machaconically that the referendum had already been made, that it was the One of October, that it was binding and that only what had to be implemented and the one who denied it was a botifler, now they take off saying that we have to do another in 2025. It can be seen that that of the procession is absolutely contagious. Well, I said that every time I am replaced by this shock, I am going to position my group on three issues: the situation of the so-called separatist process; secondly, the assessment of the management of the government of Mr Pere Aragonès and, thirdly, the need to build an alternative of truth, I insist on the word 'alternative of truth', in order to overcome the decadence of Catalonia. Let's get on with the first thing. I have long held that the separatist process is not complete, but it has changed: neither has there been a magical distension resulting from the dialogue called for by Sánchez, nor does demobilization have to do with it, nor is there any greater division in separatism thanks to that dialogue; separatism was already divided in series. No, that's Mr. Sanchez's Chinese tales to try to justify the unjustifiable. Here what we are witnessing is a real change of strategy: separatism no longer bets on the great social mobilizations on the street or on the execution of what the ANC called in its documents "the Catalan spring, in the image and likeness of the Arab spring, that is, the physical occupation of buildings of the institutions of the State". No, no, We are now in another longer, harder, more difficult phase, in which they seek the erosion and weakening of the three institutions that, at the time, 2017, halted the coup: the crown, the justice and the forces and bodies of state security. The ultimate goal is to discredit Spain, caricaturizing it as a fascist state, obviating that Spain continues to be part of the exclusive club of nineteen full democracies that exist in the world. Well, by weakening those three pillars, those three institutions, they seek to remove the obstacles that prevented them from launching the coup at the time, as I said, so that when that weakness is real, then yes, they will do it again. It won't work for them, but it's obvious they're in it. Well, I try to measure well what I say, and what I say is always reflected, whether or not shared, whether or not correct. He always maintains, Mr. Salvador Illa, that in governing my party two illegal referendums were held in Catalonia. Well, to the surprising idea of attributing guilt not to the person who commits the crime, but to the person who suffers it and who also had to fight it, is added another idea of greater ethical and moral degradation, and is that everything that separatism did then always had against the Government of Spain, sometimes with correct and sometimes with errors, but always against. Unlike then, the strategy of separatism described earlier today has the connivance of the government of Pedro Sánchez. It's not that you've made yourselves"indeep from night to morning, but you're willing to play with that erosion of institutions if that allows you to stay five more minutes in power. I have never dropped the rings in recognizing that the PSC was up to the mark on September 6 and 7, 2017. I never dropped the rings in highlighting what the unity of the Democrats meant those days, and I said it without complexes. And precisely because I never dropped the rings to say that, I think that gives me some moral authority to say what I'm saying with the force with which I say it. You'll tell me I'm an exaggeration. Exaggeration, nothing. I'm going to give you just three examples of that collusion and complicity that I denounce, I could put many more. One. In relation to the crown, ministers of Mr. Sánchez's government broadcast official videos of Podemos where he links the king to the Narcos series. Sepulchral silence of the Socialist Party. Two. With regard to justice, July 2021, an entire Minister of Justice publicly appealed against a ruling of the Constitutional Court on the state of alarm. Unaudited. Three. In relation to the state security forces and bodies, the matter of the police station of Via Layetana, accepting the thesis – absurd – that the buildings commit torture or, worse still, that the policemen who today exercise admirably there their work have the least responsibility for what happened there fifty years ago, bringing that argument to absurdity – because it is absurd –, and by that rule of three, it would be necessary to close all the places that Jaume I, the Conqueror, that pacifist and democrat, what is said « pacifist seems to be that it was not. Three examples, there are dozens more, of the complicity of the Socialist Party in the strategy of erosion of the crown, justice and the forces and security forces of the State. You believe, Mr Illa, in your infinite arrogance that you will be able to soften the wild beasts by obviating that any process of institutional contempt has a price, and it is a price to pay very high. We are seeing it, a decade of pedagogy of lawlessness and disobedience to state security forces and bodies has consequences on our streets, which today we witness horrified, absolutely all. If you really believe that flirting with the idea that crown, justice and state security forces and bodies in Spain are fascist institutions and that that flirting is not something extraordinarily dangerous, or you do not know anything or your moral relativism is, today, incurable and irreversible. I'm afraid I could go over there. You are an alternating government, but you offer yourself as an enthusiastic crutch to the first ones of change to the Republican Left. Mr. Illa, you can't blow and sip at once: either it's an alternative or it's a Republican Left palm tree. Both, impossible. You misled Catalan society massively in election campaign, in short, Mr Illa, I like you better than Mr Pedro Sánchez, but in politics they are like two drops of water. [[Widow's remorse.]] He moved on to the second part of the intervention: balance sheet and alternative. He pointed out that for us above all this plenary represents an opportunity to transfer to Catalan society the need to build an authentic alternative, really to overcome the decadence of Catalonia. You will also tell me that the term decadence is exaggerated. Data in hand, irrebatable, if necessary in the reply we will address them: today Catalonia is leader in corporate flight, vandalism, illegal occupation, barracks in the educational system, waiting lists in the health system and absolutely confiscation taxes, if that is not decadence, let God come and see him. Well, that alternative must not just be acronyms, that is very simple, it must be policy. And I must assume with all the humility of the world that this alternative is to be built, because today it does not have a majority, obviously, and that must be said, but it is more necessary than ever, because it raises a disjunctive that sooner or later it will have to solve Catalan society if it wants to return to the path of progress: choose between freedom or decadence. Tomorrow, in the debate on the motions for resolutions, we will address six axes of proposals which I will briefly list. Firstly: economic freedom and moderate taxes. There is no prosperous society in Europe that can make further progress with the economic policy that you are carrying. It's absolutely inviable, and you know it. But, well, they have the servitudes on the extreme left anti-system that we all know. Two: respect for private property. Catalonia continues to aggregate fifty_per_cent of illegal occupations throughout Spain. Without respect for private property, without legal certainty, without moderate taxes, it will be impossible for any company to return, because they will find a fiscal hell and because they will find the opposite to a business-friendly climate, a business-friendly climate. Three: zero tolerance for crime and incisiveness. I have explained earlier the consequences of a certain pedagogy of disobedience, a certain pedagogy of non-compliance with the law. Also some speeches that are launched around here, deeply irresponsible. I attended the intervention of Mrs Albiach, who said three things. In this order, I quote: "We want a society in which people are happy. They must regret that others want angry people. Two: "You have to offer young people an alternative. And then, without a solution of continuity, he proposes the legalization of the cannabis. In short, it is certainly a tempting offer, but explained at the pace that you have made, I must tell you that deeply irresponsible. I don't know if that's the way. But in any case: zero tolerance for incisiveness and crime. Fourth: educational freedom. It is up to parents to choose the educational model for their children; no politician, not even a teacher: parents. And without educational freedom you can never achieve quality. It is no coincidence that La Rioja or Castilla y León are in the OECD's high educational positions and that Catalonia is in its low quality positions. With respect to the different models, that's what works. Fifth: strengthening health. Catalonia continues the queue in investment per inhabitant in health care. But also one thing to say, I think Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards had been legitimately proud, with their imperfections, of our health system. But the pandemic has also served to see the weaknesses of the system. The need to improve public-private cooperation systems. There's a lot of work to be done, and we'll put forward proposals there. And finally, six: freedom of expression in Catalonia. Respect for the freedoms and rights of all Catalans regardless of their ideology. We need to promote neutral, pluralistic public media, and the same for all other democratic institutions. Good. When we put this alternative – this is not the first time we have addressed these debates – Mr Pere Aragonès usually answers that there is an overwhelming majority of leftists. It's a partially cheating argument. Everyone knows, the CEO's studies so manifest and you know them perfectly, that if something has done the separatist process is to break the classic left/right axis, and that according to those same studies the electoral behavior of Catalans today is based more on identity or positioning issues in relation to the process than on the ideological axis, but I assume that it is a twisted argument and therefore I am willing to accept the octopus as a pet and accept that yes, there is a majority of left. Not as wide as what this camera stands for, but there may be. Yes, most lefts. Legitimate. But not anti-system – not anti-system, Mr Pere Aragonès. You continue with the pedagogy of disobedience to the law, contempt for the authority of the State Security Forces and Bodies and the legitimate use of force in democracy; disrespect for private property and legal security. All of this has consequences, and end up having consequences on people's quality of life. Not only do you not correct that course, but you deepen it. And the case of the airport is a paradigmatic example of what I tell you: it is how the anti-system radicality and ideological prejudices of the far left can end up paralysing an absolutely necessary project for Catalonia. Now, all of this I say is part of the ideological, plural debate, and here everyone can legitimately put on the table the arguments he considers appropriate. What is not legitimate, nor true, nor acceptable, nor tolerable is that you come here and, copying your predecessor Quim Torra, say from the watchtower of your official car and your salary of 152,000 euros, that you suffer repression, and that you compare with Mandela, and that you compare with people who saw in Spain their relatives extorted, tortured or killed by terrorism. That was repression. Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Let them come here and talk about the expoliation of Catalan workers. What Catalan workers are you talking about? My father worked for 50 years in the play. That was working. And my job, a lot more. But you and I would have to live seven hundred lives to work that way. You and I are privileged. But the difference is that I don't have the jet to come here to this plenary to cry like a little boy and say that I'm being expolated and retaliated. That's the big difference. Do they not feel ashamed to be able to keep that speech? Look, Mr. Aragonès: neither spoiled nor retaliated. You are the highest nationalist bourgeoisie of all life: insatiable, voracious, want more and more, you never have enough, and you are willing to continue with the tale of the process as long as is necessary to continue cutting. One referendum one day, the next day another. The thing is, he rolls the hamster, he follows the party. That's right, always going through the box. And I assume: you're still fooled by a million Catalans, or something more than a million Catalans. But even if we are few, they do not deceive us. And that I can assure you gives us a tranquillity of spirit that you can't imagine. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.13.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word "Mr Albert Batet".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.14.0	Many honourable Speaker of Parliament, many honourable Speaker of the Generality, Councillors and Councillors, members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we appreciate the presence there has been during these days of the Presidents of the Generality who can accompany us in this general policy debate. To make a special mention of President Torra, who has now..., yesterday, precisely, a year ago he was disqualified for a state that does not tolerate freedom of speech. We also want to address a cordial greeting, as close as possible, to all the authorities and especially to President Puigdemont, who must follow this debate from exile because of repression, and obviously we rejoice that during these days political prisoners can be present here in Parliament Palau after four years of unjust imprisonment. This is the first general policy debate of this legislature, so it is also the first general policy debate of this government. That's why we're close to looking forward and focusing on the reps of the new political course. For this reason, we must begin by referring to the events of the last few days, because, at the end of the day, they are the key to this 50-per-cent term. Because, more or less like it, it's the reality that we live and suffer, a reality that maybe some Members and Members of this chamber find uncomfortable, it's unpleasant, it's not nice, but it's the hard reality. The arrest of President Puigdemont in Italy, Sardenya, Alguer, shows that the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State is still more alive than ever. That's the reality. And it's so hard and so obvious that some people can't, even if they want it, neither store nor make-up or obviate; a reality that has two cares of the same coin: for one band, the Spanish State, for the other, the conjunction of independence. I begin, if I may, by the reality of the Spanish State. After the U of October referendum, after the speech of the King of 3 October, after the arrest of the Jordis on 16 October, after the declaration of independence of this Parliament of 27 October until today, the State has not stopped chasing us and repressing us. This is the reality – the reality – that the Spanish State continues..., and it does not stop its struggle against independence. All the powers of the State work as a picker, constantly, disposed to everything without limits. They say they want to talk, but they continue to act with all the strength of a state to try to bend us, to destroy us; with brutal war, with espionage, with police tripijócs; in an illegal way, cheating, barroera, lying and ridiculous. And all the Spanish governments have acted in the same way, all without exception; some with some forms and with some nicer words, but all have the same intentions. In four years, from the U of October, we have seen three governments of the Spanish State. And all three have continued with the same persecution and repression, already a government of the People's Party, already a government of the Socialist Party or already a government of the Socialist Party with Podemos. All three have fought and fought against independence. And still I represent an unusual ridiculous. As President Puigdemont said when he got out of prison the divender, Spain does not miss the opportunity to make the ridiculous [[applause]] , how did this sale pass again in Italy, with the illegal detention of President Puigdemont. And this time it was even harder, because the Spanish State wanted to raise the shirt to European justice, and the whole thing came out of it. There are only three options for trying to deceive and take the risk of European justice: either it must be very unconscious or it must be very incompetent or it must be very invulnerable. And allow me to address the PSC, the main governing party of the Spanish State, and in particular to you, Mr. Illa, who was a minister, with all the personal respect I have for him: I cease to make the ridiculous, Mr. Illa – I cease to make the ridiculous – [[applause]] And they don't make this song more useful from the separation of powers. And don't say that the Spanish government didn't know anything about it, because we've already known, through different means of communication, that the Ministry of the Interior and even the Minister and even the President, as he recognized the Congress of Deputies today, have overseen the operation of detaining President Puigdemont. All this became very clear in the press release that Moncloa sent in the morning. All this became very obvious even that same morning, when Mr. Pedro Sánchez publicly endorsed the arrest of President Puigdemont. We see how the most progressive government in history, with one hand conspiring, maneuvering and applauding the illegal detention of President Puigdemont and, with the other, coming to the Palau de la Généralita, is a walker like Peter in his house and they want to see that they bet on the dial. [[Widow's remorse.]] Can it be more cynical? No, it's not thanks. Can it be more cynical? [[Widow's remorse.]] Who can negotiate with a state that always violates the rule of law, that fails to make decisions about European justice and that, moreover, tries to deceive it? Do they take into account what image of the State left behind from Europe? If outside the Spanish state they lose all the judicial battles. If they've all lost, they haven't won one, go to Belgium, Germany, Scotland, Switzerland, Strasbourg or now Italy. Miri, listen'm: exile, sis; Spanish state, zero, Mr. Illa. [[Greetings.]] That's the reality. And you see here and say, "And no one is above the law, eh? That's what you said here in your parliamentary office, Mr. Illa. [[Widow's remorse.]] Miri, President Puigdemont has always – always – appeared before justice. He's writing it in his diary today. It is Javier Pérez Royo, who says: "There is not a single minute that President Puigdemont has not been at the disposal of Spanish justice. And, at the same time, you do not remember that Spain has had a head of state that in making it king that this one is running away and that does not give the face to Spanish justice. [[Some applause.]] This is the twofold view we see from the Socialist Party. And it is not only European justice that leaves evidence, but also other very important community institutions. Or don't we remember the resolution of the Council of Europe? That's not going to get them out of the open, ladies and gentlemen of the Spanish State. Today, here in his parliamentary office, we can already say, and tomorrow you say we can already vote, that Spain is a state that cannot present fully democratic credentials. Or do they think the new political pardons would clear up their repression? Or do they think the new political pardons would erase the majority's fifty-two percent of the people of Catalonia from wanting independence? The dialog will not take place if it is not accompanied by political will. And the other gang, we don't see it. You, Mr. Illa, made a speech a while ago. But the dialog requires respect, respect the other. And you don't, because they're repressing us and they're moving us to the dialog table. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Illa, we're off. And, besides, you two weeks ago, while the dial table was gathered at the Palau de la Generalitat..., we already saw who they had for the dial because they were going to go for a coffee with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, publicly, in a coffee shop in Barcelona. Is that the respect you need? We see what kind of dialect they preach, and we see what repression they apply. And, look, before this lack of political will, before this lack of democratic will to resolve a political conflict, we warn them: one day will come – we hope that it will be sooner than later – that President Puigdemont will return to Catalonia as a free city, as President of the U of October, as a legitimate president; because the return of President Puigdemont and the rest of exiles will represent the recovery of the freedom of Catalonia. That said, as I have said, this is the reality of the Spanish State, which does not cease its particular " to them in order to try to curb independence. But what is the reality of independence? So the reality is very clear: fifty-two_per_cent wants independence. This was the result of the elections of the 14th of February; a will that increases in each election appointment, elections re-elections, remaining municipal, remaining state, remaining Catalan, remaining European. Independence is stronger than ever, with more votes and more scons, in all the chambers. Because despite the repression, because despite the fatigue caused by the persecution of the Spanish State, despite this permanent judo clause that makes us, the reality is that the majority of Catalan society wants the independence of Catalonia. And he doesn't ask for a reform of the Catalonian State of Autonomy, and he doesn't ask for a reform, a modification of the Constitution, and he doesn't ask for a table of the dialect, and he doesn't ask for a fiscal pact; what he asks is independence, he asks for recognition that we are a nation, that we have right to decide and that we want to exercise the right of self-determination. So, if we know how the Spanish State works, that we already see that they have no intention of changing their repressive mentality and their zero willingness to negotiate, the key question is not what the Spanish State will do, the key question is: how do we act from Catalonia? From Juntes per Catalunya we are very clear. And in the first place, we've already warned you that Junts for Catalonia will not fall into the trap of false dichotomy between stay and independence. That no one thinks we're going to be anesthetized for the while. We don't stand still and stand still, and we don't want to stand around, and we don't want to play who's going to spend the rest of the day. And, secondly, together for Catalonia we are very clear that the only path to independence is through unity. In the fight of repression, this week we were able to give an excellent example of unity. And we appreciate the gesture, President Aragonès, of moving to Alguer to give support to President Puigdemont. Just like we have to thank everyone who went out on the street in Barcelona and in front of the country's assembly. That's the path. If we are united parties, institutions and citizens, we are invincible. This was the only way to get the U of October: with unity; this was the only way to get this tape that was so important for independence this week. Refem this unity, strengthen independence, with complicity, with confidence, with respect. We'll regain the morale of victory. Let's take the initiative again. Let's turn desanimity and disconcert into illusion and hope. Let's conjure each other up. Fifty-two per cent of the citizenry wants to advance towards independence. We have a democratic endorsement to do so: the elections of the 14th of February and the U of October. We have the parliamentary majority with the widest independence support in the history of the Catalonian Parliament. That's why we signed the parliamentary agreement, an agreement that everyone knows is causing discomfort, an agreement that forced us all out of the comfort zone to get it; because it's an agreement that we signed, and we're loyal to this agreement, because we want to move forward and we just move together. And we've already seen that the sun isn't going anywhere. Separately, we lost the 14th of February elections, but it was the combination of independence that won the elections. The independent parties share the same objective and we have to act as allies. It is not enough that each one has its own strategy, but that what we have to do is refer to and have a consensual, agreed and shared strategy: unity culture. And we have to work together and coordinate, also to make use of our strength in Madrid. That is why, from the Juntas, we have been defending that all the forces and all the independent parties join forces to negotiate Madrid's assumptions with the will to pressure the State to resolve the political conflict. This is a culture of unity, of joining forces. And above all the parties we're part of the government. The parties that we're part of the government... call coalition culture to get the most out and go all at once. And especially for a government practically formed for a technical empat: thirty-three to thirty-two. It's not a subordinate government, it's a coalition government. And that's why it's more necessary than ever the culture of coalition. And we all have to apply ourselves. We are two different parties but we have had a coalition culture to make a parliamentary agreement to push forward. We know of the fact that we share this will, and especially President Aragonès, who is close to leading the government and who, therefore, knows perfectly well that he is the president of a coalition government. So, among all of us, we strengthen the culture of unity if we want to achieve independence. Because only with the Catalan Republic can we guarantee our progress, our well-being, our language and our culture. We have all the potential as a country and we have the ambition to make a better country. Catalonia and its people are entrepreneurial people, who have initiative, who have talent. I just want to mention three of the last two years in the economic sphere: Catalonia's exports have increased by a seventy-nine per cent in the last two years; the multinationals that have settled in Catalonia have more than tripled, in the last two years, from 3,400 to 8,900; the passengers of the Prat airport have almost doubled, from 27 to almost 53 million. They are unappealable figures of the last two years appearing in the book of the deputy Ramon Tremosa Catalunya, natural logistic power. Certainly, Mr. Illa, the invitation to read it, the book, because affirming that the last decade in Catalonia has been the worst of three hundred years is barbarity. [[Greetings.]] As a barbarity so great and comparable to what he did according to the Minister of Interior when he said that the Commissariat of Via Laietana was a symbol of democracy. And it's a barbarity because it shows a huge loss to people who have suffered from the dictatorship of Franco, the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera and the Civil War; or, second, because it shows a great disconnection from the reality of the country. And, as I said, we have, therefore, the actions to be a captivating country. But the Spanish State is against us. It harms the honest country, to all citizens, whether or not they are independent. We are a strong country but we are a punished country. The list of hardships is known for everyone, we have denounced it by active and passive: the Spanish State asphyxiates us with the fiscal deficit of 18,000_million euros; it places through the capture of foreign investments; it encourages the displacement of its social enterprises; it prioritizes railway axes that margin the Catalan ports; it fails all the commitments, already of infrastructures, of rolling stock, of social services, like the law of dependence; it retails them whenever they can compete, and it does not respect our institutions. Every week we have examples of this attitude of the Spanish State. Last week, we saw him with the audiovisual law, which unprotects the Catalan language. Or, for example, with the judgement of the Constitutional Court that it does not allow to manage the vital minimum income of the Generalitat de Catalunya. But, besides, the Spanish State doesn't do or let it. Why, who wants to live in a state that's been constantly undermining him? Who wants to live in a state that leads youth? Who wants to live in a state that lies at the front of the schoolhouse? Who wants to live in a state that pays the most price – of energy – of history with the most progressive government of history. Without being an independent state, there are public policies or strategic projects that cannot be taken forward. We can only deploy our potential if we are a free country, if we have all the decision-making capacity and can manage all our resources. That is why, while we are working to achieve the Catalan Republic, from the Parliament we commit ourselves, together for Catalonia, to promoting the initiatives needed to have more sovereignty and less dependence on the Spanish State. Because the dependence of the State damages the progress and well-being of the citizenry. There are examples of rabid news: energy, housing, vocational training, infrastructure, the social use of català. Last week, together for Catalonia we already registered here in the Parliament of Catalonia a proposal of law because the Parliament approves urgently and extraordinarily the new law of the Catalan audiovisual. And let us celebrate that the Government accepts the need to legislate in audiovisual matters in Catalonia and not just negotiate a quota with the Catalan in Madrid, and after the statements made by the Minister today. The defence of language is a priority objective for our political action and, therefore, a red line for Junts for Catalonia. We cannot leave the defense of the Catalan language in the hands of the Spanish State. Therefore, we do not give up to legislate des del Parlament de Catalunya, hoping that it will be the flute in Madrid, that we know how it will end, that it will end as always, that it is incomplicant. We saw it before yesterday: the Minister of Education of the Government of the Socialist Party says that he wants the castle to have more presence in the classrooms of Catalonia. But had it not been said that the law that the català was protected in the classrooms? So now it turns out not. Turns out the Spanish State doesn't have enough and one more time they're not reliable. For this reason, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia will work to have less dependence on the State in all possible areas and we will push and give all support to those initiatives that drive us away from the dependence of the State and make us closer to independence. Because together we are clear about our country project. We want a Catalonia that prioritizes the welfare, equality and civil rights; that passes through the society of knowledge; a Catalonia that promotes the occupation of quality; that is a country that is open to the world; that is a country with an international vocation; a Catalonia that defends the rights of women; against attacks on the LGTBI collection; that protects the Catalan school; a Catalonia against xenophobia; that retains talent and brings innovation to the surface and that places it for research. We want a Catalonia that boosts culture and understands cultural diversity as a wealth; that works for territorial rebalancing, that thinks of all the regions and all the peoples of the country; a Catalonia that is sustainable and respectful of the environment. Together we defended the Catalonia of yes, in front of those who defend the Catalonia of no, because we are concerned that I took a wrong speech from not everything. Together for Catalonia we are the Catalonians of yes, yes to benevolent, yes to progress, yes to democracy and yes to freedom; to have an airport that is an international hub to open us to the world; to gather the Winter Games of 2030, which are an opportunity for the Pyrenees and for the country's conjunction; to have first-class cultural equipment, such as the Hermitage, to bring us and place us in the artistic and creative vanguard; to allow the citizens to choose who should be their future as the country. We want a Catalonia that goes forward, before those who want a Catalonia that goes backward. We want to boost the Catalonia of the 21st century, before those who want to stay in the Catalonia of the 20th century. We want a country of social progress, of economic growth, against those who defend backwardness and decline. And we want the exercise of the right of self-determination before we are denied this right of speech. We don't want Catalonia to be converted into Barcelona's Colau and PSC, a grey, degraded, insecure, vandalistic city that has lost its pistons and lets go of opportunities. The night watch that we've seen this weekend is the last example of the decay that Barcelona has seen since they ruled Colau and the PSC. This is not our country model. We're in the antipodes. I'm done. From Juntes per Catalunya, we work for a country with a better welfare, with a better progress, with greater progress and with more opportunities for everyone, without exclusions, for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans and Catalans think what they think, viscose on visquin. And this will only be possible in a free Catalonia, because we have before us a state that does not stop repression against the independence movement, which continually punishes our prosperity as a country. But at times we have fifty-two percent Catalans and Catalans who want independence and are legitimized and are forced to pull forward. This is the reality and, before this reality, it is a culture of unity and a culture of coalition. We're there and there. President Aragones, I said to him, on behalf of Juntes for Catalonia, at the speech of his investiture and today I reiterate it: he has and will have us at his side, with loyalty to the agreement of the coalition government, but also with firmness to move forward with unity towards independence. Guanyem la República. Fem-it together, make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.15.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Batet. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Josep Maria Jové.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.16.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors... "We know that freedom, that political independence, is not an easy object. It's just that it's never been, and I haven't said it, and we've always known. And the value that we have decided to be independent is that we are aware of these difficulties and that we have also seen that, through generosity to future generations, we have to go through these difficulties that pose, at last, in periling our freedom. They are the words of the very honorable President Puigdemont, say from exile. President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, all our support, all our solidarity, all our recognition and all our thanks. [[Greetings.]] And I say the words that one day he wrote to me on the first page of one of his books: "For everything, for everything and for everything that I'm sure we'll do folds. Thank you very much, President Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] President Aragonès. Today's is the first general policy debate in Parliament with a Republican president at the head of the Generality since more than eighty years ago. And it's obvious that there's a point of pride in the files of the Republican Left, it's undeniable. And of consciousness and responsibility, we have, very much. Some of you have spoken of historical responsibility, in fact, because there are many of us who want to see a new stage. Others, some others, I'm sure they're still moving to the chair, and others will do everything they can to make it all fail. Well, as it goes, we are here today celebrating the first general policy debate of this legislature, but, as I said, for us this debate has more than special significance, because for us this government assumes an important turn in the country's recent history. There have been other debates that have staged the opening of our cycles and that have marked the history of this country, that have shaken that oasis where some people live so comfortably, and that, if in doubt, have allowed us to place ourselves at a point where we find ourselves today, with a government with the support of a majority of parliament backed by more than fifty per cent of independent votes, and that, on its turn, has turned its center of gravity to the left. And I'd like to remember two of these moments. First of all, the arrival of Pasqual Maragall, who overcome that conservative old Catalanism, and did so, and knew how to do it with a Catalanism of the left without hesitation or supervision. And secondly, that of Carles Puigdemont, captivating the turn of Catalanism towards independence and making clear from the first moment what we were doing: exercising the right to self-determination. At that time, we opened a new stage, which led to victories, but also at a very large cost to many people we know and esteem. For them and for them, we're also here today, and we're not complete until we all follow home, until an amnesty that allows repression and the free return of exiles. In these two debates he remembered, Esquerra Republicana was an indispensable actor. Without the visit, the leadership and contributions of Josep-Lluís Carod-Rovira and Oriol Junqueras, these changes did not happen. But today, President, this stage leads you. The responsibility is enormous, you know, and we demand that this opportunity have a real practical translation every day of the people. Make things happen, like a good friend says. It is to say, that it remains palpable in the hopes of the citizenry that today open to us. And president, the new stage also runs into the hands of men and women who have made way for much more complicated routes than ours. Thus, from the Catalanism of the left to the independence of the U of October, to arrive today to an independence of the left to the head of the Generality. Uncomplicatedly open, inclusive, reflective, hardworking, social and coughing, because we are independent for this. Still to the people to get it all. We are a point of inflexion, not only political, but also social. Our demand is enormous. We can't see that the pandemic hasn't changed our lives and that it's made it clear, once more, that this socioeconomic model is unfair. Nor can we see that repression has already ended in this country and that we live in a political and institutional normality. For this reason, this general policy debate has these two intersections marked. For a band, we are experiencing a political conflict with a state that has keyages to repress us and a judicial system to pursue us, but at the same time and in parallel it is now marked, as the conjunction of humanity, by a systemic crisis without precedents. I can't, with some volen, pass the page with you. We can't and don't want to, because to pass the page, first it has to be read, and then it has to be understood. Because what we did, what we said and what we were conditioned who we are now. I speak in social clau, health clau, economic clau, democratic clau, and also, obviously, national clau. That is precisely why we are talking about transforming, because we can only emerge from these crises that we are experiencing by shaking the system and laying the foundations for a new social, economic and political model. And we don't want these words to be empty in content, as you don't want them, President. We know that the challenges we face are enormous, and that, moreover, if we want to face them with this transformative will, the resistance we find ourselves will be immense. For this reason, it was very important for us to count on the support for the investiture of the CUP, because we, as Anna Gabriel said, also have the certainty that without everything we would stay in touch. We know that the resignations with the starting point are irreversible defeats. That's why I appreciate it now, here and again the compromise, the tenacity and the firm negotiator of the most unconformist left. Without the untenable compromise in the agreements we signed a few months ago, today we won't be here. Thank you for keeping you and for keeping us quiet at the maig. We know you decided to take it wasn't easy. We know that often – too – our actions are not what you expect, but we also know that we want to count on your vision of reality. We need it, not just for parliamentary arithmetic, but to guarantee the social and political transformation that the country needs. You have our commitment, that of this parliamentary group, that we will not divert a word from it that we committed ourselves to doing. We will therefore be demanding with this objective. It is as simple as to understand that the demand is, is worth the redundancy, demanded and payable for everyone, and for ourselves, the first. And it is, and it can't be any other way, with Juntes, with whom we've been sharing government for a few years now. We have not seen all the colors with you, of course, but we have not only ruled together, but we have walked for the most transcendental moments of the recent history of this country. Loyalty, then, to this mess and to which we have decided to pull forward from now on forward. Loyalty and compromise. You also have our word. This is the first of our irrefutable commitments, the compromise to be faithful to the agreements reached with a spirit of sincere loyalty. But our political action must also be based on other commitments. Commitments with values, republican values, that have to assume a different way of governing, honestly, of course, and with uncomplicated courage to put people at the center of our decisions. Transforming is just to stop doing things the way you always do, the way you always do and the way you always do. Commit to people, therefore, with public policies that end with inequalities, with all inequalities, that think of the common good and that fight the interests of the status quo or, as Arcadi Oliveres said, that make the wheel of capital turn to another canton, placing the axis, once and for all, in another center, which, in fact, is the most important: people, and therefore life. And in the last place, a compromise also insurmountable with the country. With a country that, as Carod-Rovira said, is not a project of past, it is a project of present and future, where there is no question the people of you see, nor who knows the door or who language speaks, because the future belongs to us all. We are independent and we count on a majority that we have never had, in Parliament and in the street, and this majority has right, all the right of the world, to be heard, to express itself, to decide and to self-determine. For us, President, these four commitments – with the pacts, with the values, with the people and with the country – must guide our political action and make it clear that the plan of government must have – in fact, it has – the ambition and willingness to transform to the height of this historic moment. We cannot let the post-covid world return to the same injustices of the pre-pandemic world: we do not want them. And that's why we can't apply the old receipts or repeat the usual mistakes. Today we are told that the resources and the stakes of the European institutions are for a recovery that cannot repeat the errors of 2008. And they tell us that there are doors that until now have been closed. A potential that we cannot disapprove of with policies that have condemned a generation to precariousness and instability. And they don't understand that, and they're not little. On the right and left, they coincide with their willingness to stand on the roof of an outposted establishment. We draw, we want to draw a different horizon, where prosperity is accompanied by sustainability, where growth is a source of shared wealth and not a private depredation that approaches the benefit and centrifuges costs to the most vulnerable. And that's not prosperous, it's selling people, land and life. And we don't come to each other, neither people, nor earth, nor life. [[Some applause.]] An economic decision today that I do not contemplate environmental costs nor is it strategic, nor is it possible, nor is it a guarantee of prosperity, but a mortgage on the future of our children. Mortgages, with the usual, plus, we haven't paid enough. That's why he was talking about compromises with values, with another way of doing, being consistent between being and doing. And there shouldn't be any president who can accept a chanting of this type by the state or by lobbyists, or deputies or deputies who endorse this chanting for the back door. We are fully aware that change is difficult, that results can be fragile. By the way, we have to conjure ourselves up to make it possible. An example of this is the regulation of the loggers, because the law simply works. We have reduced the cost of the lodger without realising the apocalyptic predictions and we will continue to shield rights to ensure a decent habitat. We don't have to retrace this No one would have to do it, nor intend to do it. That's why more than 1,000_million euros per year is so needed in housing policies and the expansion of the social logger park, because housing is a fundamental right, and we still have a lot of work to do because it's a real right. What we're trying to say is that we're talking about a possible change, a real change for the citizenry. We know that our full aspirations do not fit in today's institutions. We want, we need the independence of Catalonia because it is a free country in the broadest sense of the term. A struggle that goes above all from people, language, social justice and the model of country we want. These are the country's consensuses that we will defend. That's why all the steps we're taking in this while they're not just positive, but they're completely unforgivable. As we do now, President, more likely to be and more likely to discredit us. We'll have it for sure. Running alongside people is what makes us great. In order to do this, we will exhaust my margin for the change, we will overflow the exclets of the 78th rule to double the privileges of the old, and we will need allies to do so. We need allies to engage, to stretch out, and to keep faithful, and we'll do the same with them. If we don't try to transform the country socially to advance it nationally, deputies, deputies, president, we've fooled people, and we're not here for that. We're not from normal and we don't want to go back there. The passage of a pandemic and the collective effort that it has assumed is not worth returning to the world that has provoked it. They can't let anyone back. I said Marina Garcés to the demonstration against the expansion of the Prat airport, but it's a statement that perfectly sums up what I've been telling them so far. No, it's not just that Ricardo's not touchy, it's that no project, and much less an imposed project, can put life at risk for the private benefit. It requires the salvation of the planet. No project, and much less an imposed project, can be put on a scale to the territory. It's the territory and it's its people who feel all our work; for them and thanks to them we are here today. The heads of projects, and much less an imposed project, can falsify a social model and the economics fall, unjustly the insolidaries. For all this we do not extend the airport of Prat that proposed AENA, not without consensus, not without environmental respect, not without institutional respect and not without rethinking the socioeconomic model. We present an alternative to reconstruction, not a parenthesis, but a point of inflection for a more sustainable, equal and just society. Before resignation, ambition and willingness to transform. The 1,500 measures of the plan of government concretely reflect this ambition, is the full landing of the social revolutions, green, feminist and democratic to transform the country of which President Aragonès spoke to us. In Erik Olin Wright's words, it's to bet on incremental change, real utopias, possible and feasible changes, incremental changes that add up to one another to fully transform our society. So let's do it. We already have proposals to start with. Make him live not only survive. Universal basic income wants to execute the simple yet compelling idea that everyone has right to have a worthy existence. The pla pilot can lay the first stone in this horitzzo where we have to emmiralate. Why, what do we have to do because everyone can enjoy every opportunity to pursue their own vital project? , to be free without dominations by condition of ability, genera, sexual orientation, origin or economic situation? There is no measure that is as effective as ensuring equal opportunities as equal access to education as soon as possible, full universality and freeness of zero-three years, and therefore there is no more necessary measure. [[Some applause.]] Two infants do not enjoy a real equality if those who by chance need in a family with few resources at three years have felt up to thirty_million fewer words than those who were born in a more comfortable family. Two infants don't enjoy a real equality if one of the two families lives in fear because they don't know where to sleep the morning or live with to turn on the light to read because they don't know how to pay the bill. That's why we have a public electrical system, because we've seen that the marketing logic on the essential assets only ends up leading to the rapture and extraction of the renders of the most vulnerable and we can't leave the essential services in the hands of the rapturers. We have to deal with the climate emergency and, therefore, yes: change the decree of renewables, the national pact and a new law on the management and prevention of waste. There won't be real equality if a girl goes home instead of going to the institute because she lives in poor menstrual conditions. That is why this government has to make access to menstrual hygiene products a right and not a privilege. And there is no equal opportunity if we cannot guarantee the sustainability of the public health system. For this reason, the Generalitat will allocate more than 5,000_million extra euros to the Catalan health system in the next few years, because if one thing we have after the last few months is that our public health system is the most expensive three-way we have. And it's not equal if living across the city makes it impossible for the right to gain life or if working the land means giving up services like fiber or infrastructure in conditions. For this reason, we will lead the fight against the digital brette of the Generality and accelerate the arrival to the territories of the optical fiber of public title. The rural agenda is a priority. There is no equality if one person has time to participate in the cultural, civic and political life of the country while another partner two jobs to arrive at the end of the month. To combat it, we will make culture a basic right and, for this, we will allocate two per cent of the presumption to culture. Culture is a source of knowledge and critical experience. A cult country is a free country. And it didn't equal it if you had to take hands and hands to find the audio-visual offer in your language as a globalisation that linguistically covers us. For this reason, this must also be the legislature of the defense clinging to the català. We have to stop a regression that's not casual. It is the result of the linguistic persecution sustained by the legislature, by the execution and by the Spanish judiciary of a state with a centralist and uniformizing view. In the face of attacks on our culture and language, solid, compromised, ambition and loyalty. That's why every time they orchestrate against the language, they'll find us face to face. Here and there. [[Greetings.]] Because that wasn't just quota. This is about our non-negotiable compromise with language, which is right to be and guarantee social cohesion. Nor will he have equaled it when the half of the society takes advantage of the old structural rapes to impose itself on the other half. We're stopping the rapes. Also male violence in all its forms: physical, psychological, digital and also vicarious violence. We will not stop these rapes without facing the speeches that validate them. We have to give an answer to the oblivious, minor and silenced half, this half that we don't want to get caught up in it, but we just want it in the center. Montserrat Roig said the year 77: that the men of the new democracy would continue to have more time and more possibilities to decide the fate of everyone, including the fate of women. This is us now and we've had enough of this breathless system for all the people who have turned them to the margins. That is why it is essential that we implement the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Law that this Parliament approved. He did not equal it when the world was thinking because he saw in full freedom a few and there were congregations condemned to permanent alterality. Normativeness cannot be the measure of all lives and trans people need the right to have rights recognized. Much work remains to be done and we need to develop the Catalan Trans Law already, quickly and with conviction. In short, President, what we want is a society that makes itself the ideal of republican freedom without social, economic or political domination. A society that I plant in the face of those who hate the difference in the reason for their political action, because with fascism they do not flirt or pose with red captives. No, no, He is fighting, and racism, too, in Parliament and in the street. [[Greetings.]] In short, a brave plan that denotes that this government has the will to work to make the country we want. A brave plan that is built from the great consensus of our society. And when we talk about consensus, here in Parliament, we also have a lot of work to do. We must already guarantee a proper electoral law, that the year will not end without the renewal of the expired bodies and reform their rules to strengthen transparency and adapt the chamber in our time. This has to be the real compromise with the people. Therefore, compromise with the pacts, compromise with the values, compromise with the people to make it possible. And the fourth, the compromise with the country, the one that gives the final feeling to everything. The calendar. The calendar has made this general policy debate stand between two dates loaded with meaning: between September 20, when the people of Catalonia made it clear that they had no reason to vote, and the U of October, when more than two million people placed their hopes in a ballot box that some are still looking for. And four years later, the conflict, which still goes a long way, continues to be open. Four years later we still have a social majority in Catalonia who wants independence and to whom the State does not give any democratic response. And four years after the repression, she's still alive. Yesterday we also knew that the State Advocate demanded fourteen and thirteen years of disability for the mayor and mayor of Rápita, for his participation in the U of October referendum. And this week, thirteen CDRs are being sued to testify on a demented charge of terrorism and explosion. The arrest of President Puigdemont last week is a new finding that the State has not put up with its repressive path. We have seen, one more time, the performance of an obsessed and vengeful judiciary. And we all know that what they're trying to do is end the political activity of President Puigdemont and the joint exile, scare down and blow up any path to resolving the political conflict. But if the Spanish government's bet is sincere, I must act with democratic conviction and determination. It is not going to be shielded in the evil separation of powers or in an autonomy of deep bureaucratic and unobstructed devices. Looking at another one, he sang to his accomplices. If the Government of the State, which is the political and democratic representative of the Spanish State, does nothing to stop the repression, it will be leaving the monopoly of the resolution of the conflict to the judicial system. The solution is to their hands and they know it. And you're political, not legal. Because today, in the Spanish State, we see it day after day: justice has been lost, justice has been violated and justice has died. To end repression there is only one way: amnesty, and justice for everyone. We are aware of the personal and political cost of repression, but these costs have not made us fan or make us move our objects, because we know what to do eliminates por. That is why we continue to defend the same in the street, in the Government, in Parliament, from exile or before the courts when it comes down. Keeping up isn't easy, and we know it, but looking at 'em from the tank isn't just comfortable but it's renunciation. We have found that we have a wall before and we have after that it is higher than we thought, but there is not enough to cry very loudly or hold many gains. What we need is to open big lefts to the wall that allow us to bury it. And this happens to be stronger in all areas and to be more prepared and prepared. We need to adapt the strategies to learning and changing reality. We know that it is a victory that the Spanish Government recognizes that there is a political conflict between Catalonia and the State. It's just a starting point, right, but it's an essential starting point. We, who have been independent for years – well, in fact, for all our lives – bring to the table the great consensus of the country: amnesty and self-determination; the repression and exercise of the right to self-determination. Let's take advantage of the opportunity. And that's revolutionary because it's unaudited. If negotiating is to confront ideas and convictions and proposals, the negotiating table is, in short, a confrontation table. That no one doubts that our skepticism is great because we know how the State acts. We have suffered in the first person and know that it is never dying voluntarily but only that they will do so when they are forced to make a proposal to us. And that's what Catalonia's city is waiting for. But because this confrontation succeeds in all democratic, civil and political forces. And this force will also depend to a great extent on what we, all of us, do; on the ability we have to make it clear that our demands are the result of a broad consensus of Catalan society, to continue to mobilize us to defend them. And yes, obviously, to prepare us. An open trading table cannot be the excuse for paralysis. Being skeptical cannot mean not putting pressure on the Spanish government. And not believing in self-determination doesn't mean hiding in cowardice. The State must have political and democratic courage. It's what we've got, it's that we've got to set up the table in spite of everything we're living. As I said before: the solution is at your hands, and it's political and it's not legal, to resolve the political conflict the solution is the ballot box, the referendum. Because politics can only resolve political conflicts, and negotiation, if that is sincere and with democratic guarantees, is the best way to do it. Maybe we'll stay alone trying, maybe we will, but we'll still stick to all the gangs, without giving up anything. It is not trying to give up, and we are, as always, by amnesty, the referendum of self-determination and the Catalan Republic. [[Greetings.]] We... we're still here despite our revenge, stronger and more compromised than ever. Convict, hope, and honesty are all about us. Despite the wounds, independence. And as Oriol Junqueras and Marta Rovira say: we are deeply convinced that we will win, and we want to do so to put the Catalan Republic at the service of everyone, not just those who think like us. We don't ask anyone where they're going, but where they're going. Fem de Catalunya an exemplary country. MEPs: it is possible to make Catalonia a country that is socially just and nationally free. Follow him worthy. Dream Catalonia free! Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.17.0	Thank you very much. Now, after the speeches of the parliamentary groups, we will make a 30-minute recess before the reply of the President of the Generality. The session is suspended, therefore, for thirty minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.18.0	So let's resume the session. And, then, to respond to the interventions of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.19.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillors, Honourable Councillors, Members of Parliament, yesterday, in my intervention, I made a call to rebel against the insecurities, I made a call to get out of the insecurities of those speeches which serve to satisfy the own parish but do not help us to move forward. And before the interventions of the opposition groups, I have to say that I have confessed that I have failed in this attempt to get them out of their own insecurities, the insecurities in which they have been located and in which we have heard speeches that are not very innovative, certainly very little going into the detail of what many of you have called 'the one that really interests people; they have not entered them. But I, in front of... well, I have to confess that he's a weak man. There wasn't much hope either, certainly, because, well, we already know each other a little bit. But I thought we could open a stage where we were able to get out of the most comfortable areas. I believe that I have done so, because of the proposals I made yesterday, clearly, to be able to face the country's problems face-to-face, assuming the contradictions, in a context that is easy, I know that many places will not applaud me, but I think it is the best for the country. Unfortunately, I have not found this receptivity in opposition groups. But the country will advance, because we will continue, this government will continue with its proposals, it will continue with the plan of government, it will continue to explore those areas where we have the opportunity to advance, in doing different things, to transform the country and also to resolve the political conflict with the State with our proposal, which is amnesty and self-determination. Allow me to comment on some of the interventions that have taken place this morning. I'm starting with Deputy Illa, so, on behalf of the PSC, and I have to tell him that his speech has been very disappointing to me. I thought the alternate government would have an alternate plan, and today we have seen that there are no alternate plans. I thought that beyond, therefore, the logos, the image – which really, therefore, serve for propaganda – there would be an alternate project, that there would be some alternative proposal before the great reptes that there is in the country. And we haven't found them. And, therefore, I am convinced that the proposals of this Government are not only the best, but that they are the most solid, and, in fact, the ones we have on the table to advance in all the folds that this country has, that it is the outcome of the social and economic crisis provoked by the covid-19, we do not have to go out with a different economic model, that it generates less inequality, that it is an economic model that also faces the struggle against climate change, and the construction, therefore, of a more equal society, and also the resolution of the political conflict with the State. You don't have an alternative proposal, you don't have it – you don't have it – and we've seen it today in a very clear way, right? And they don't have it especially in a question that's monamental, that they have to give it an answer. We have our proposal. I would like to be able to confront proposals with the main opposition group in this respect. And they don't go in there, they don't have a proposal to resolve the political conflict. What kind of proposal do you have? You are a Tarradelista, you call yourself Tarradelista, I suppose you select the stages of Tarradelellas' political life, which is certainly very long, very long, and therefore there have been episodes of all kinds. But, look, today, forty-four years ago, the restoration of the Catalonian Generality was approved, in anticipation of the Spanish Constitution, in anticipation of the State, recognizing the legitimacy of the Republican Generality. Therefore, Catalonia, political Catalonia, our governing institutions, which we represent here, we are not born with the Constitution nor with the State. And, therefore, they do not limit us, in our aspirations, neither the Constitution nor the Statute. And, therefore, the proposals we put forward on the table, the proposals we have for the future of the country, obviously going beyond – beyond – the Constitution and the Statute. Forty-four years ago, today, there was a mechanism of resolution on the one hand of a conflict that was that of the recovery of the country's institutions. It was..., it was approved of restoration, not creation, restoration, and it is only restored to what existed and had been usurped. Therefore, the representation of the institutions of the Generality of Catalonia, which means these institutions, neither with the Constitution nor with the State, and therefore the Constitution and the State can never be placed as a limit at the time of resolving the challenges that this country has. We have a political conflict, and there has to be a proposal to resolve it. I do not believe that you, before a statute that you promoted, a statute that was detailed to the Constitutional Court, do not have a proposal. The proposal cannot be a back-to-back agenda that contains investments, concrete aspects of sectoral management, which are very relevant and which many of them, therefore, are interesting, we fully share and can enter it, but it is absolutely insufficient for the resolution of the political conflict. Because the political conflict that Catalonia has with the State cannot be resolved with a roll reversal; it cannot be resolved with the agreement on an international convention; it cannot be resolved with a commission that I did not know what to do. It's a conflict of sovereignty. And, therefore, a project that wants to be an alternate project, and, moreover, if it calls itself an alternate government, does it not? And if you do, then, with this pomposity that you do, on one of the main questions that the political history of the last century has marked Catalonia, which is the relationship between Catalonia and the State, you must have a proposal. If they don't have it, they're no alternative. I want to know your proposal. I think the citizens of Catalonia want to know their proposal. Let's confront them, that there may be a debate and that the citizenry decides. And that's what we plant and what we want. You've made an election choice. Today, if you look at it, PP and Ciutadans have spent almost as much time as attacking the government to attack you, because you have occupied the electoral space of Spanish nationalism as well. And so, here, in this battle to see how this bench is recomposing... so maybe it's what keeps you from making a clear proposal in this sense. But we have experienced this before; presidents of Catalonia who have been from their party and who have made a proposal in this sense, whose relationship with the State must be. Ours is clear: from state to state; our proposal for a relationship with the Spanish State is from the Catalan Republic to the Spanish State – two states that in many respects, more they may, be allies, because we have common interests – and arrive here through a self-determination referendum and an amnesty that ends with repression. Therefore, we have a proposal; we will wait for yours. And without this proposal, it will not be possible to advance in the resolution of the conflict. And I think it's imperative that you make this proposal. By the way, Tarradellas returned from exile– Tarradellas returned from exile. [[Greetings.]] He also referred to some questions that I think have to be corrected, have to be killed, have to be explained, right? For example, when referring to vocational training. Vocational training, I suppose you know that vocational training is not limited only to that which is regulated first-cycle and second-cycle vocational training, in the middle and upper-level, in the field of education, but also incorporates all occupational and continuing training, also incorporates agricultural schools, and that, therefore, it is obvious that it is not part of a department, it is part of a government. And that's why it's given to the social workers who participate in it, the board of directors of professional training in Catalonia, who have set up a path, and in this way we will devote all our efforts. This will be a legislative objective. We have a positive element, which is that there is greater demand for vocational training; a demand that despite all the difficulties..., obviously, an increase in the twenty-two percent of petitions in a year, when they were normally two percent, so for any government it is complicated to manage. But I think that we in the Department of Education need to recognize that he has been quick and diligent to find an answer. It has resorted, yes, it has also resorted to those centers in which, not through the concert, but through an economic compensation for this year, which, provisionally, therefore, if there are no places for the public, they can offer professional training with public support. The year you see the pre-registrations. But it's also true, and we also have to say that today, the students applying for FP who wanted to... there were 24,000 who didn't have it at the beginning of the summer in the cycle they were asking for, today it's 1,300. So I think change is important. And here's a process and a job for the councilman and all his team that we need to recognize. He also refers to justice. And I here, go, believe that Constellera Ciuro, when she has done it, almost..., because the councillor, so, I always kept the composition, but almost always she is putting her hands on the head, because, of course, to complain that we are moving forward in the construction of justice when her Government, the Government of the State, has to transfer more than 6_million euros of justice that we have already built and that we have advanced ourselves, and to ask that in fact more than when you do not pay what we have done before, I think that, going, it is a little distressed, as at least it is, and that, therefore, these notes in the field of justice, therefore, should be passed on. And also in the interior. We don't play with public safety, we don't play with it. For me, it's absolutely unacceptable... you didn't do it today, because I think you know of..., you're convinced of the error that I'm going to overwrite you now with the words you've said these days. You didn't exactly say that today, but your party, the Socialist Party of Catalonia, said this week that the government, my government, is legitimizing the violence this past week in Barcelona. This is lied, it's inadmissible and it deserves a correction – it deserves a correction. In reply, I hope you correct it, because you know it's not true. He knows that at the end of the night, on the first night of the Mercè in Barcelona, we, from the Government of Catalonia..., the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra was available, and he decided, from the leaders of the Barcelona Assembly, his party – therefore, there is a direct line – he decided to do it in a certain way; then he decided to make a reinforcement and he asked himself, and there we have been, as we have always been – as we have always been. Also Tiana. They cannot say: "Tiana no. So, look, Tiana's been there the counselor – Tiana's been there the counselor — talking to the mayor, not looking for the rooms, looking for solutions and giving support to the local police before some absolutely unfortunate incidents. Therefore, I believe that with security they should be very and very curios. And if we all want to reinforce a model of public security, which is ultimately the security of the majority, because the security policies of the Interior Department are also social policies, because public space is the space that is shared, and therefore we must guarantee the security of everyone, we can't pull them by the head. And, therefore, I think that in this sense they should be much more curios. We don't legitimize violence. I speak for my government, but I think I can also speak for President Torra, for President Borràs, to whom she has tried to link in an absolutely demagic way with incidents of this week's chapter, which, it goes on..., is to say, the only way to want to link them, the only reason that listens to this, and justification, is partyism. Therefore, let us abandon the partisanship of security policies, if you please, which are sufficiently important. You have also made reference to other questions – you have spoken about it – and you have also spoken about the economic change to be made, and I have found that there is a lack of an element that will be key, that will be key for the next years and any proposal for the future, which is that the economic model that we need to build or face clearly the struggle against the climate change or will not have a future. I am not just saying this for the conviction, for the convictions, for the ideological compromise that you can have, for a simple pragmatic question. It's to say, either the fight against climate change, or today's projects that you want to pull forward imagine how we'll be dealing with the climate change in the next two or fifteen years, or it'll be projects that won't have a future. We are entering into a profound transformation of our economy, very profound. All the limitation, the lack of microxips that we are living from the pandemic – that have led to put up factories like the Seat de Martorell, that are ending a partial ERT and rotator in the template, and therefore through the collective negotiation, as usual to do, and we like, but in the end an ERT that will have a width of almost de_mesos–, these limitations in the microxips can be produced in many other areas, can be produced in many other areas. There is a lack of minerals, there is a lack of basic products, of first materials. It is therefore essential to change the development model. It can't be one day for another, I recognize that. It can't be one day for another, we can't sacrifice all the opportunities, and it's not just about us, certainly. This government does not have its hands to reverse the climate change, but it does have to put its grit from the country, from Catalonia, in order to do so. Therefore, I think it is also important to consider this aspect, so what is the fight against climate change. And that was related to the Barcelona airport. At the airport of Barcelona there was a simple solution, which was what we had on August 2 on the table, which is: listen, here is a proposal for reversal, of this proposal for reversal we do not have to look at the details, we do not have to look at the affect, we go to concreteize it, we go to work on a board director. But, of course, if we find that what was going to be approved by the Council of Ministers yesterday leaves no room for this board of directors, you say clearly where to go, what will affect, what is the orientation of possible enlargements, even the whole geographic orientation, right? I mean, there was only one missing map. Therefore, it left no room for this. I believe that a debate as important as this cannot be broken down in two months. And we have found the arrogance of public enterprises in the State that think that in this country they can do and defuse. And some of them followed the veto, especially from certain parties. We worked with the government, and the vice president worked so that we could have an agreement that you would allow us to be able to reach a satisfactory consensus solution during this year. And finally, we see how later, when it came to the Council of Ministers, it went to a concrete level that what it does is to make the master plan useless, because it was already defined. They were very clear from the very first moment that it was set up, they weren't willing to change it, and I think what we found here is an attempt to put the government of Catalonia between the span and the wall. Therefore, we will not accept this way of doing, it is very important that we have between hands not to mortgage the future. Things are better to think about them well, and an infrastructure and a reversal of these characteristics must think well. You have to think well and you have to achieve it with the maximum consent. And the evidence that there was no such consensus is that there you were ruling in Catalonia, Barcelona City Council, neither the State nor the Government of the State, had this consensus between the two coalition partners. And in this sense step to the other coalition partner – from you, in my own – to Catalonia, In Comú Puede. I was very surprised that... well, I think you know, and you've been trying to signify yourself as at least in the stages of the last legislature in trying to forge consensus between very long positions. But today they have withdrawn from this strategy and have taken all steps back. They've taken all the steps back. A government cut that government in which the mayor says A and the first mayor says B. A government cut that government is the government in which the Minister of Development has a proposal and the vice president of that government goes to the place where he wants to make this proposal to blow it up. This is a broken government; a broken government is the government in which two ministers are contradicted in a press wheel? From this experience, can you give lessons to the cohesion of our government? Can you give us lessons? [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] In relation to the political conflict. Because he will say to me: "No, look, this is sectoral and such questions. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Okay. In relation to the political conflict, right? , which is the position of the Government of the State, where you participate, of the political conflict. It is not like the party and its parties with the federations at the state level, which I recognize are proposals that at least there is one. But what's with the state government? Because, come on, I don't suppose you'll just hide in the record when you don't agree; I think you'll also be willing to move forward in the resolution of the conflict and involve the government of the state, right? And then I think we have to try... to be coherent is very difficult, and now I'm guessing this sentence is already getting me through all the communication media. Coherence is difficult when speeches with facts must be coherent, because facts and action are soft in a complex society, where there are conflicting interests, and coherence in speech is much easier to do than coherence in facts, because it doesn't all depend on you, certainly. But we have to try to do it. Speaking of housing. Here we have approved, in the last legislature, a rule that has proved effective, which is the rule of control of the renderings of lloger, as at least in the first year. There is one who says: "Well, we must be able to expect more. We add the benefit of the doubt. I always try to be very heterodox, always the benefit of doubt. But the first year was effective. It has been reduced more..., that is to say, it has not affected the total of the market to lodge in the places where it has declared itself tense, on the contrary, and has reduced the price of the warehouse in the municipalities where it has applied because it has declared itself tense, therefore, these measures, this law, which is not in those not. This rule is challenged by the Government of which you are a party. So, I'm sure they made it appear in the minutes of the Council of Ministers, that they didn't form part of it..., but how many "show in the minutes will pass while they follow... Yes, yes, you do, but Junts per Catalunya, to whom you demonitzen, approved this rule. The PSOE, no. [[Some applause.]] And rule with you. Of course, it's that in the end... By the way, he was oblivious to me. I come back for a moment, Mr. Illa: you, who have political experience, who have known, in the different administrations of which you have formed part, people of many different paths, cannot use the professional trajectory of the Counsellor Giró as a tool of political wear, cannot use the professional trajectory and attempt from here to imbue, automatically, a certain ideological conception. Where ideological conception is important in a career path is when you are in the political and governance arena, and now Councillor Giró is in his professional career path in a government, and here he has obviously compromised ideologically in the professional arena. Using this you, who have worked extensively with very different people, so I think it's a mistake, right? And, in any case, what should be asked ideologically is not who has worked in a given environment and then takes a step towards the public service, but who was in the public service and, thanks to being in the public service, ends up with the board of directors of these energetics who place the light on us for the clouds. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, I believe that he respects the career path, and also, obviously, that of our Economic and Historical Advisor. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm going back to the commons. No, I think coherence is important, so we now have a threat, and it is that this can happen at any time if the Constitutional Court accepts the remedies that the Government of which you are a member has submitted. It's pretty important how to put this on the table on the stability of the coalition government in the state. I think it's pretty important, that they should have it present. More than anything, because you've approved this in the PSOE Investment Pact. For the circumstances that follow, I can understand that it has not come out, but here, that we have done it and that there is a large majority, that it is not boycotted, and that, at least let it be done would be the most appropriate and, in any case, incorporate it into the law of ‘life to be done, which must be brought forward, the new Catalan minister of the PSC – who, of course, kept the appeal against this law but declared it a tense area in her municipality when she was mayor. Things of this consistency. I'm following up with some commentaries. In any case, there is one that has been quite common, which is the economic decadence. Go on, this decadence is like nationalism, which is always the others, huh? Nationalists always say that nationalists are the others, don't they? They never are. The decay is always just the others, isn't it? Yes, you laugh, but, look, these symbols, that you always accuse us so much, when I meet with the President of the Government of the State I don't want to bring a sign here. Because I defend, quite clearly, the symbols of the country. Therefore, of the nationalist symbols of the flag are you, the ones who are most agitated. Anyway, I think that..., we're going to dice – we're going to dice, right? Because the supposed runaway from business... I've never said that the change in your social media that you've made to certain businesses doesn't have an impact on our economy, especially in the medium and long term, can have it, and obviously I think it was a mistake, I think that this hasn't been corrected later, but in any case, we're going to data. Let's go to the data: 2017, 1 gener of 2017. Companies from all over the State that had a registered office in Catalonia accounted for 18.5_percent of the total number of enterprises in the State – 1 of 2017's generation. It is supposed that after the flight from Egypt, which you say, the great victory of Madrid, the decadence, in which Catalonia has retreated back, we should be much worse. So it has increased: the 1st generation of 2020 we have passed from the split and half percent of all enterprises in the State that own Catalonia to 19,3_per_cent. Therefore, let's go to the data – let's go to the data. I don't care about the change of some big companies, obviously, but we also go to the data, and so I think that the speech of this decadence, the truth, is perhaps more in the desires of someone than not based on reality, isn't it? I also believe that the group of ordinary people has raised some questions that there is really no novelty in respect. You said that we, on the Hard Rock theme... are one of the great star projects. This government hasn't talked about it, it's still the same as it was a year ago, this issue, and, therefore, it hasn't talked about it. And then there are projects that, obviously, we believe is that some of us felt that we could explore them, felt that we could work on them, but that obviously they had to have some demands for sustainability and to do things that were different from what had always been done. Therefore, being very demanding also with the fact that the Winter Olympic Games candidacy must be different from what they had always been, they must not be accompanied here by an urban ball. It is not the settlement, it is not, either, the settlement, at the international level, and they must go, they must clearly frame themselves in a strategy of struggle against the depopulation of the Pyrenees. And this has to be one more element. What can be a tractor for certain investments? Yeah. Who will say: "man, but we should not wait to have this to hold the investments. Yeah, yeah, but like they're from the government where you are – maybe we should put this – to give them up a little bit. Therefore, this is a government that has clear, in its plan of government, the transformation measures. I know you didn't give us a hundred days, you didn't give us a hundred hours, actually. But this is a government that clearly has this social, economic, green, feminist and democratic transformation that we are going to do, and that we are going to do it. In relation to the Popular Unity Application. I think we've reached an investment agreement, the investment agreement says what you say and we'll complete this agreement. And now I see that there are new proposals, but in any case the agreement says what it says, and we agree the completion. The agreement did not speak of concrete dates... The agreement was very clear in the sense of laying down, therefore, a whole series of measures of social, economic, very uplifting character that I will then go into detail. And the deal is about generating the conditions to hold the reference, and we're obviously working there. I, in parallel – obviously – continue to work all the measures to strengthen us. That is to say, when we go to a negotiation, we go to confront proposals, and we have to go along with all the mobilization, all the complicity, with all the skepticism that may be there, but we have an agreement that says what you say. There are now new proposals. We keep in mind that we were working together and that we signed. And I think that if the proposal that you have put forward, that we have known for the media, because I have not been able to see the written text of the motion for a resolution that you are putting forward, it is a proposal that you really believe is a real proposal to bring it to completion, that is, it is spoken before, it is negotiated, it is made the proposal, the same as we were a few weeks and months ago negotiating what the investiture was. The agreements, we'll make them complete. And we need them, too, to complete them. Because it's obvious that an investment agreement ambitions like what we made and what I feel proud of and commit to its compliment, an agreement like this needs the tools to do it. It cannot be done with the previous assumptions, we need the 2021 assumptions, which will contain the steps to move forward in this sense. There may be elements of discrepancy that are out of agreement. I commit myself to working to resolve them, to nurturing them. We compromised that we would do a consultation for the Winter Olympics, and we would do it. And that's what we agreed on. There are other elements that can certainly cause discrepancies, which is why we are two different political projects, but we are working to resolve them by minimizing differences, because I believe that citizenship requires that most of the investment continue to go forward, that it continues to go forward with the greatest ambition; it continues to be aware of the diversity that exists and that all of us will have to make divestitures, but we have agreements and these agreements are the ones that we will complete. So, if there is any new proposal, let's talk about it, but I think if we really believe it, if it's actually a proposal that you see as feasible, it's coming, it's talking, it's negotiating, it's working together. I still don't have it, we've known it for the media, and so... if not, then it's perhaps another respectable thing that's the positioning game, but I'm convinced that a question as important as the exercise of the right to self-determination went much further out there. Therefore, we will complete what the agreement says. If there are nine conditions now, then they will work in their moment, but what we do is complete the agreement we have. And in this sense we have already pushed and the Universal Basic Income Office has already set out to be the pilot. And it will obviously have the presuppositional endowment in the presupposition project. The Committee on the Study of the Public Order Model in Catalonia and the Committee on Institutional Racism in this Parliament are emerging. In the field of social rescue, in the field of fighting against the dark, more than 1.000_million euros. We've also helped the ERTO workers and the discontinuous fixed workers. We have increased, as I said, FP seats, which was also in agreement. The deployment of the equal treatment and non-discrimination law is obviously included in the government plan. What is also the future of 061, is also, obviously, included, exactly with the same compromise as we arrived at with you in the pact, is included in the plan of government. In the field of housing, there is already the proposal – and you know it – of the protocol for the whole issue of denunciations. To change it, so that it does not feel, therefore, an environment on which it feels managed for public-order endowments. We must avoid it. And, therefore, a protocol that allows much more preventive action. It is just the tip of the iceberg in housing policies, in many other ways, and obviously there will also be in the use of European funds and also in the presupposition. Legislation to stabilise the internal market is in progress. You say: "There is a persecution of mobilization, of dissent. There have been changes in this sense in the particular accusations, in the organization also of the judicial cabinets in respect, passing to the Presidency. We have unified the body... in this sense, therefore, the initiations carried by the Interior Law Center with the Central Judicial Cabinet. And public energy is taking the first steps. Therefore, I think we have a level of compliment of the agreement that in the first hundred days it is a correct level and that we have to move forward in the end and we have to keep moving forward, but to do so we also need tools, and if we have to put resources to it, resources are decided on the assumptions. Under the circumstances there will be proposals. The assumptions will also contain the measures to unfold the agreement and to fit into the government plan that we approved. For this reason, the import of these assumptions, and we want these assumptions to be approved with most of the investment, because they want to deploy and deploy, will contain the deployment of the investment agreements. We also felt... so, therefore, compromise with the deployment of the agreements. New proposals, I think we should be able to work well, not work them, so, or plant them on a public level. I think we have power..., because it's an important issue, because I think we need to avoid the situation or feeling that we can give, that I don't say that I'm going to do it, but that's a fan, so, well, for a political positioning issue in the general policy debate and rather. Let's get to the point, we need to generate the conditions for the exercise of the right to self-determination. We have to do this, but let's work first on the conditions, the correlation of forces and then we'll come up with the timetables, etc. And we in this sense believe that this is the hope and that's what's contained in the agreement and that's what we're going to do. There have also been other interventions, in this case, therefore, of political forces, but before going in there I would like to make a reference. I think independence, too, has to..., because it is an indispensable condition of its deployment as a majority political project and, therefore, under conditions of winning, independence must continue to be useful to the citizenry. The day-to-day management is not a while, which, sometimes, with this idea is devalued, it's how we change our daily lives, it's how we transform from now on, and we have to keep doing that. And we need to go through all these parallel transformation policies that we're building forces for the exercise of the right to self-determination. Because before... we have political forces that will do everything to put up with us, and today we have not had an example. And we have had it with the intervention of the extreme right of this Parliament. You try to make, try to threaten us: every intervention is a threat of a complaint; every intervention distils it; every intervention is full of lies, they build their speech without a single one, based on lies, as did the extreme right at the length of the story, as is done today. And, therefore, we will not accept that lies condition this Parliament or this majority of government; we will not accept it. [[Greetings.]] Today it has been linked – it has been linked – and it has been done several times, in a way..., vague, absolutely shameful, immigration and crime. He's done it a number of times. We can't accept it. Ours is a diverse country, which has many reptiles, obviously has many reptiles, in which there must be rights and dues must be for everyone, obviously. But we cannot accept an immigration and delinquency link as we felt it today. This is a racist speech and so we have to say: it's a racist speech that we won't accept and we won't let go... [[Greetings.]] Trying to exacerbate the low passions, trying to look for the enemy in the side view and not in the difficulties of an economic system that involves more inequality and that we have to work collectively to change..., when looking for the enemy in the side view is when working to break society. This can give an income, but it fails; on the far side of the story they always fail and we always end up winning those that we defend from all the plurality that exist in this chamber a model that is not that of the extreme right. And for PP and Ciutadans, well, as I said before, maybe I should get Mr. Illa out here to answer, I guess she'll do it later, because PP and Ciutadans know that they can only grow up electorally with whom they took electoral space, which at that time, therefore, is the PSC through their electoral bet they made, campaigning. And, therefore, they continue to discuss each other, but we will stand firm in defending our programme and our proposals. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, we are in the antipodes, we are absolutely in the antipodes. And, therefore, today I come back to ratify it: we are in the antipodes of the constant threat, we are in the antipodes of considering that the fifty-two-per-cent project of the people who went to vote is a project that is shut down and, therefore, that of the forty-night..., I don't know, then this one is not shut down? I mean, it doesn't fit that numerically. We, despite his attempt to continue to divide Catalan society, work for the conjunction of Catalan society. When we work in the field of public health to give response to covid-19, we do it for everyone; when we deploy the active policy of occupation, especially in the most vulnerable collections, we do it for everyone; when we carry to term, therefore, housing policies, review of the denunciation protocol, we do it for everyone, and when we work also for a national pact for language, to follow the catalyse of social cohesion, to continue providing the catalyse of continuity of the future, to promote its use, we also do it for everyone – we also do it for everyone. And, finally, I do want to make a reference both to the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and to the Parliamentary Group of Junts. This weekend I went to Alguer because my place was going to Alguer. And for me, then, I think it was my job to do it and, besides, I wanted to do it. When a President of the Generality is persecuted for what he has exercised as President of the Generality, I must be there. You're sure there's matisses, aren't you? , in other respects, of political strategy... in some areas; sure. But before the repression, it's time to be there. I was able to express my support and, moreover, I was able to do it personally as we shared with President Puigdemont. And I am very clear that the resolution of this conflict will have to be done among all of us – among all of us – and this requires generosity, requires a long look, I think... to overcome the difficulties that obviously exist. The open door to negotiation is, of course, and the strategic unit is instrumental. Yesterday I explained clearly what my proposal was in this sense and I am not absolutely convinced, I think it's the way we have to go, I think it's the one that makes us stronger now and makes us stronger in the future; I think it's the one that makes us stronger in Catalonia and also the one that makes us stronger out of Catalonia, that I don't expel other strategies that can be done in other areas. He didn't expel them. But I'm convinced of this path and I'm saying it with all honesty. But this, then, someone will say: "Always say it and always repeat it. So yes, yes, I always repeat the same proposal, because I am not absolutely convinced. But we have to do it together. I can do it. But it'll do a lot better if we go with all the strength. I'm sure we'll do it. Let's take the sound that there can be many times, we'll find the mechanisms to work together. As the young Member has said, the Bureau is an area of confrontation of proposals, and therefore new proposals that there are, concrete, that can be proposed, open to talk about, right? And so, obviously, we have to continue working together, I think it's an opportunity. As is also an opportunity for the defence of justice from exile, so was the defense of prisoners and political pressure. It's complementary. Probably one without the other would always have reason to say you didn't feel it. And, therefore, the work that has been done since exile, in which the fragility of the accusations made by the Supreme Court has been discovered, which, at all events, have returned them, they have not achieved a single victory outside, so I believe that it should be put in value and that is not contradictory with other actions, with other bets that we are making, because all are complementary. Because what we're going to defend is amnesty. What we have to do to defend everything, in exile, in front of the State and also in our country in order to continue to be hard, because fifty-two percent is very important, but in order to consolidate this project we want to be much more, we aspire to keep the maximum number of people on our side...; amnesty and self-determination are the broad objectives that we have to defend. And that can be done from a lot of fronts. I think it's not contradictory, but it's absolutely compatible. And that's why, so I also wanted this weekend's head, apart from the solidarity before the repression that always has to be done, in any case, and also personal solidarity with President Puigdemont..., it also has this political significance in this sense. And our government is a government that has just approved a plan with 1,500 measures, three hundred of which are priorities for its transformation character, which is progressing, therefore, in the internal work of the government and which we will now work with the majority of Parliament to be able to extend this agreement to the realm of assumptions. Here an important job is being done for the correct allocation of resources, which is ultimately also how policies materialize. Of all the councillors and councillors of the Government, I can only say words of thanks for the effort, for having faced difficulties of cop, which were not planned, to work in teams, to go to the leaders in each area of the separation of these compartments. We have the Department of Health and the Department of Social Rights working together more than ever and we are integrating it into the socio-sanitary sphere. We have areas... – to set an example, eh? But we have a lot more – all the work that was done to the Department of Economy, the Department of Enterprise and Work for, in three weeks, after the councillors came in, to hold the offer of help to the solvency of entrepreneurs, autonomes and also to incorporate it, with a very clear message, of help to the workers in ERTO and to the fixed discontinuous. And, therefore, they are examples of this culture of coalition that we have to go hard and that I am convinced that with the plan of government, also with the result of today's general policy debate in which we have to make an effort to be as complete as possible, as unitary as possible to all proposals, I am convinced, in this sense, that we will confirm what this culture of coalition is. In short, today we have felt, therefore, critical. It's logical, the opposition has to do them. We've felt reprehensible, we take them in. We believe that this country needs to give it the greatest ambition, but there is an absolutely compromised government. A government completely compromised with the four lines of transformation, completely compromised with the plan of government, with all its teams, because we are very conscious and we are very clear that our compromise is with the better of the conditions of life of the citizenry, and we are very clear that the future of this country will draw two parallel lines, which are: the better of the conditions of life of the people of Catalonia, the better of the day through this economic transformation, social transformation, the feminist compromise, the green transformation and the democratic transformation with a good transparent government and that it fights against corruption and, in parallel, the exercise of the right to self-determination, the independence of our country, the resolution of the conflict in Catalonia. In this we are compromised, in this we will work and, for this, we claim the maximum support. Thank you very much. Very good morning to everyone. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.20.0	Thank you very much. We suspend the session until three-quarters of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.21.0	Let's resume the session. And according to Article 154 of the Rules, to make the reply, the group spokespersons will run for a space of two minutes, starting with Mr. Salvador Illa, president of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.22.0	Madam President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first block of concrete considerations of my reply. The concept of respect. A cabdal concept in politics, also in Catalonia, also in Catalan politics. I try obsessively to be respectful. I think I've been there at all times, today, Mr. Aragones. I'm sure I was when I spoke to the economic advisor, Mr. Giró. I said that you see and that nothing happens; at least with us, nothing happens. He's asking you to follow him, too, respectfully. With people who, after a public trajectory, have decided to develop activities in the private sphere and who agree with the legislation in force and respecting the law of incompatibilities. I feel proud of the people in my political space who have done so. Second consideration, also respect. In the field, yes, of coexistence and security. This did not come from a category of statements – I would be easy to make, from here, from all political groups – this was a serious, difficult and complex problem. I'm going back to say, at your side. At the expense of you, of you and of Councilman Elena. But stay there. You are the most responsible of the public order in Catalonia. And I just have to say that, in this assumption, I want to add, collaborate and cooperate, because it is a matter that worries me very much. Third, justice. Fourteen judicial bodies – four in 2020, gave 2021– and Jutjat de Martorell. If you'll excuse me, the council will stand up to you. Vocational training – four points, of these concrete considerations – this cannot be repeated again. If you solve the year you see, listen to me, I love it. And I'll say it here. I'll congratulate him from here. But now it's my obligation to say that this year it wasn't just good, but it was bad, very bad. I can't happen again. Airport. I'm worried about three things, from the airport. The first one, which didn't expand. I think it's a stockade in the Catalan economy. And besides, I think it's possible to make an enlargement with respect to the environment. The second thing I'm worried about about the airport is the misadventure of his government, which I believe remains credible to you. That's my opinion. And the third one, the one that worries me most, honestly, and I say it from the highest respect, is that I think you see that it has to be enlarged and that it has not yet been reached. And that's what worries me the most. I think you saw it and you didn't just get it. Sixen what, green calendar. You, in other words, told me that... I didn't mean much. I mean, I haven't had the amount of time you've wanted. But in any case, I agree with you, it's a tipping point, it's very important all we can do with renewable energies, with the transformation of the economy to decarbonize it, and, more importantly, it's a factor of competitiveness. I would like to thank him, in this first block of concrete considerations, for the reference he made to the alternate government of Catalonia. It's an honest attempt, believe me, to help, isn't it? And we made a government plan. I don't... with this, I mean... we did it on August 2, 3. I'll get him there. It's an honest attempt to help. For what I can serve. I cec that helps. We're doing this on purpose. The second group of considerations I want to make about Catalonia and the role of Catalonia in Spain. Catalonia has been, in the 19th and 20th centuries, if not, the economic locomotive of Spain. In the industrial sector, the first business schools of Espanya have been in Catalonia, the culture of effort and work, so characteristic of Catalonia... Catalunya has been the economic locomotive of Espanya in the 19th and 20th centuries. This has turned around. He's turned back in the last few years, we're looking at him as we look at him, he's turned back. And I think that is, of course, why the other territories, if I may say so at once, should be destroyed. Probably, too – I think – we're not doing very well. And what I say and say again is that Catalonia can do better and Catalonia needs to do better. That's what I say in economics. I want Catalonia to do as well as I can. And I think we can do better. I Catalunya, more than the economic locomotive of Espanya, was the political locomotive of Espanya. Catalanism has been a political driver in Spanish politics, hasn't it? President Tarradellas – whom you also often mention during your speeches and I also like to do so, right? – but also President Pujol, President Maragall, President Montilla, they led, they stopped; they were economic locomotives, Catalans, Catalonia to Spain, right? In matters of statutory reforms, in matters of financing reforms, with so many and so many things. I believe – and I say this with the utmost respect – that there is a point of inflection in this, in this being the political locomotive of Spain, with President Mas, President Puigdemont and President Torra. I say it's respectful. And you talked about inertia, complaining about it. Say: "Listen to me, I want to break the nets. Train them. Trenqui la inercia, Mr Aragonès. Break the inertia of the past few years. Let's go back to being the economic locomotive of Espanya – let's go back to being the political locomotive of Espanya. If he does, if he breaks the inertia, he'll keep me at his side to do it, I honestly say so. And I say to him more, feeling it today, with some expressions that you used, that he's a moderate person in the forms and I think that also in the background, I've been given a doubt, some expressions that you've served. Let's say..., it has generated me the doubt of whether they are expressions... – I want to measure well what I say –, let's say, you demand for the concrete political circumstances of your government or if, on the other hand, they are expressions that sincerely reflect your thinking or the thinking of your party or the thinking of a part of your party. Look what I'm saying to him, look what I'm saying to him: I'm giving him the benefit of the doubt. Maybe I'm wrong. I'm the same; I won't think I was wrong, because we all deserve to give us an opportunity. And so, I don't like the expressions I attribute to this, to the first part of this doubt, do I? , to a concrete political situation that you are going through. I would now like to refer to the third block of my intervention, which is necessarily synthetic, to the political situation in Catalonia. You said to me: "Who is your proposal? - I did. Listen'mm' asked: "What is his proposal? What do you offer the Catalans who are independent? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If I may, I want to make an appointment with President Pujol, who said it from this Faristol, on April 24, 1980, to his first investiture debate. He spoke of what the globalizing concept of nationalism gave. I... well, I'm not a nationalist, I've fought it politically all my life, I'll keep doing it, because I'm not in shock. Go on, not in the punch, huh? And he said..., they stop this, he said – I quote literally – "And we are very and very conscious," said President Pujol – "that we alone, or that we have – he said – "68, 70 or 75 Members, we cannot build Catalonia." We must, therefore – he said – « be open to all suggestions. To all propos and to all – I say to all – he said – "collaborations. That's what President Pujol said, isn't it? All necessary, to build Catalonia. Naturally, you, Mr. President. Mr. Batet, Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Fernández, Ms. Albiach. We're all needed to build Catalonia, aren't we? So do I, I think, so do I. And me, like Tarradellas, Catalan soc and Spanish. I European. I defend this idea. I want a Catalonia from a Spanish, which I want plural and diverse, and from Europe. And that's why I think we need to make a table of dialogue in Catalonia, so we can discuss, contrast and eventually reach agreements on these subjects, right? Our proposal is thought, may not please, but it is thought. We started to build it in a document bearing the title « Declaration of Granada, which we updated in 2017, under the title of « Declaration of Barcelona. I can't develop it here, but I think you know where it's going. Now, let's talk about finding... contrasting opinions and, eventually, finding points of agreement. And a last block, right? I wanted to refer, in this last part, to the references that have been made to my intervention, right? You yourself, Mr President, have – in some way – commissioned me to do so. The format of the debate does not allow me to refer to the extent that I would like and would not want anyone to understand it as a rudeness, does it? But I do want to say some things, don't I? First of all, I'm very interested in the comments and the points of view of all of you, aren't they? And I think they're reinforcing the need we need to get together, don't they? The second, Mrs. Albiach – I did not do it in my first intervention – I want to thank her sincerely for her defense, as attached as my own, of the dialect in Catalonia. I want to graze him. We have differences, don't we? But here we are together. I also want to talk about useful policy. What I understand is that it must be politics, that it is useful politics. I mean, to solve problems. Mr. Carrizosa and Mr. Fernández. I respect what you have said, but, look, in Catalonia we have problems, we have, all societies have problems, right? But here we have problems. And I think you can help solve them, too. And, therefore, if I may and from fair play, we all make politics useful, also you, Mr. Carrizosa and Mr. Fernández. And to Mr. Batet... Mr. Batet, you remind me of Mr. Rafael Mayoral, who is a member of the Congress for the United We can. Don't remind me ideologically, but remember me because Mr. Mayor, that I, at many Sanitat commissions, was with him, let's face it, he's a very vehemently person, isn't he? Like you. And I believe that his vehemence is proof of his sincerity. And I'm not just not mad, but you're listening to me, your vehemence. I don't know... you judo? If I don't... I don't, but I don't give him a black belt in political judo. The tictic this of the embrazide of the contrary, to make it serve in proper benefits. But with me it won't work, politically, the judo. Because I didn't go against you, because you represent a part of Catalonia. And I want to be with you, because you represent a part of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And I've been part of a Spanish government, and the only thing I've been chasing is a virus. All right, all right, And for a little while I can't believe in the Council of Ministers, which, under the presidency of Pedro Sánchez, made a decision that may or may not please, but that was the most important to promote concord in Catalonia. And nobody's marble, neither am I. No one's marble. And some of us have also been able to resume some of the relationships we wanted to resume. And no one's over the law either. I'm done, yeah. Mr. Aragones, you have finished your reply by saying that you have heard criticism today, that you have heard criticism. I didn't forget that I also offered help. Ask him this: don't forget that I also offered help, eh? I think you like Catalonia. I'm wrong, I'm sure you like Catalonia. I think he sees that we're not done well. If you, at some point, have the courage to try to straighten out the course, we and I, you have it at your side. Otherwise, we'll do whatever we can, huh? And let me finish – in eight seconds – last but not least, we didn't have a bad time, to my German political family, with a quote from the German political referent of Social Democracy, which is Willy Brandt, right? : "Those who cling to the past, will not be able to face the future. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.23.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Illa. Next, he has the word on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.24.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aragonès, let's start with parts. I thank you for spending more time than other parliamentary groups on VOX. And I will not miss the opportunity to give you data, and counter your fallacious and lying arguments. First of all, you accused me of constantly, in my speeches, of threats of complaints, of complaints, because, look, I as a public representative of a political formation such as VOX, who we sit down to those responsible for the coup d'état, who we sit down to those responsible for the Bureau of Parliament, because we have to defend our constitutional order and the laws that we have all given ourselves in a democratic way. And there's something that you seem to be obviating, which is called the Penal Code, which... I strongly urge you to read it over and over again, which is a code that contains the criminalization of offences and sanctions. And that is why I am permanently obliged to warn you of your will to break the constitutional order and violate the laws. Therefore, as many times as it is necessary, I will remind you, article by article, of the Penal Code. You also said that we are permanently looking for the enemy, right? , next door neighbor. « You are permanently looking for the enemy. He was telling us. You are the experts in generating confrontation and division. It is you who are constantly facing men against women. It is you who now, with your sectarian bill of evil called 'democratic memory', intend to confront past family members between each other. It is you, in short, who are permanently confronted, dividing and generating chryspasation. And we, unlike you, lead a project of national agreement, because what you claim with your historical memory law would imply – and that is what you want – that your fellow bankers would condemn the last Francoist mayor, who, by the way, in Pineda de Mar was his grandfather. [[Some applause.]] That's what you're trying to do. And we defend the national agreement, Mr Aragonès, that none have to condemn the other's grandfather for the side in which he was in the Civil War. We stand for harmony and under no circumstances will we stand for or stand by those who seek to promote sectarian laws that only want to end the freedom of chair and freedom of expression. And then, as he could not miss in his reply, the three magic words: « liar, « racist and« promoter of hate speech. [[Pause.]] And so quiet he stayed. Well, I want to say to you, loud and clear, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group and on behalf of millions of Catalans, that the only speech of hatred that comes out of this chamber – the only speech of hatred that comes out of this chamber – is that which you distil, because much hatred must be had, Mr Aragonès, to put an end to the freedom of millions of Catalans, to the prosperity of millions of Catalans, to the safety of millions of Catalans. And that is the speech that you have been promoting for decades from the institutions of Catalonia, which should represent all Catalans. You have called us liars, when the only one lying in this rostrum is you, your entire government and all the media that you have kidnapped with millions of grants to silence the reality that our neighbors suffer in your neighborhoods, to hide the reality that many neighbors in Catalonia suffer. Those are the lies you profess. And I'm going to give you some data. So I don't extend much, because I don't have much time, I'm going to give you some brushing. September 28, 2021: Sexual assault on a minor disabled by Moroccans, Lérida. [[Widow's remorse.]] August 30, 2021: an Algerian is arrested for stealing elderly women in Lérida. 22 August: a Moroccan hit three young men in Alpicat, Lérida. August 28, 2021: Massive lynching of Magrebian immigrants to an older person in Salt. September 2021: sexual predator in Hospitalet. 26 May..., 16 April, in Mataró : dispute between Moroccan immigrants for an occupied apartment. 9 February, in the district of Horta-Guinardó, Barcelona : brutally murdered at the hands of a young man of 20 years of Moroccan origin. And so I could follow all of my intervention – all of my intervention. I hope this will come back to me later. Data from the Ministry of Justice, Mr Aragonès. Prison population in Catalonia 2020: 7,884 prisoners. Spanish nationality: of those 7,884, 4,105. Foreign nationality: 3,779, i.e., forty per cent of the prison population is foreign. In other words, sixteen per cent of the population commits more than forty per cent of the crimes. And now you come up here and tell me you're lying, Mr. Aragonès. [[Greetings.]] Because when you call us racists, liars and data manipulators, you're not calling us, Mr. Aragonès, you're calling all these neighbors in Catalonia who have names and surnames, who suffer in their streets what you promote, which is crime, the invasion of illegal immigration and goodism around multi-recidence criminals. And in the face of that, we're never gonna shut up. We will demand the immediate expulsion of every illegal immigrant, that all the multi-recidivist criminals be put in prison and, of course, that we re-establish, because you have the firm conviction that we will not take a step backwards, to give voice to all these dramas and so much more that our neighbours suffer and that you, in a torritant and sectarian way, silence with the invaluable collaboration of the media. [[Some applause.]] You also called us racists. Well, look, I'll tell you very clearly: the only racists in this chamber are you, who appeal to the native Catalans, scorning millions of Catalans who are not indigenous and are as Catalans and as Spanish as you and I. Therefore, think very well when you point to others, because you are really the promoter of hate speech, the true racist and the one who is condemning millions of Catalans to have to live under the civil death that you impose on them and under the totalitarian project that you and your Government embody in Catalonia. And finally, to end. More data. It is important, I think you have not made much reference to the social drama, in fact, that you are suffering a lot of Catalans, as you come up here and permanently make an exhibition of your ideological fanaticism and your only path, which is the rupturist agenda. For example, 176_days of waiting for surgery. Is that the social transformation you lead? More than ninety-thousand families who are unanswered and are claimants of official protective housing. Is that the transformation you lead? The only transformation you are leading is to turn our grandparents' Catalonia, formerly prosperous, into an area where families lose their jobs, go to the queues of hunger, suffer insecurity, lose freedoms and permanently violate equality. Therefore, in front of you there will always be a handful of patriots convinced that Catalonia must be recovered for the great project that is our Spanish nation; a handful of compatriots who will give the battle to give voice to everything that you silence, and a handful of patriots who always, under your threats, your insults and your permanent stigmatization and attempts to move away from the political debate, will persevere without rest, without delaying any of the flags, to recover that Catalonia that you have all snatched from the Catalans as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.25.0	Yes, Congresswoman, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.26.0	Yes, we ask for the word because in this chamber the Code of Conduct of the deputies was just violated, from the outset, by disrespecting a part of the people of Catalonia. And, to the band of this code violation that all the deputies and deputies are obliged to complete, we do make the request to the Bureau that they avoid that they can repeat these unfounded criminalizations that explicitly go against on one side of the Catalan people with all the tools that the Rules have. Those two points. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.27.0	As you know, the Code of Conduct has been issued for the president of the chamber on numerous occasions. In this concrete point the Member who used the word asked the President of the Government, when he intervened in his reply, to rebut these statements. And, therefore, it will correspond, in this case, to the President when you make his reply, if he considers it appropriate to do so – I don't know whether he will consider it or not – to be able to rebut the concrete statements he has made. The Code of Conduct we are all subject to at all times. Thank you for remembering what we've done on a number of occasions since the start of the legislature. Thank you. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.28.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. To begin with, I'll make a warning. Who wanted her to hear that she understood it. We're not made of honey and sugar and we know how to rule. That no one else minority anyone or use the wisdom to treat their members. President, you started the legislature citing Marx, but you have finished reproducing the speech of Foment. Since we don't understand when we tell him to turn a hundred and forty degrees, we'll tell him, "Go back to the beginning, let's start again." Let's remember what you started in your investment speech. And to return to the principle is also to talk, yes, about the airport, because here everyone talks about it, but you claim the agreement of August 2. Can you explain it to us? Because we didn't see him. What's the press note, and it's already there? Why do you claim the airport agreement is that there are more passengers and therefore more CO2 emissions? Why is it that you claim to be the greenest airport in history, which is the oxygen that you invented this summer, absolutely impossible? Why does the agreement they demand of August 2 include more passengers for Girona and Reus, so more CO2 emissions? The agreement that you claim from August 2 means to follow the money and, therefore, that who benefited from it is, as always, Foment, who is the most defense of this expansion of the airport together with those who – we have already said and we have repeated it again today – have become the butlers of the IBEX 35, that what they want is that there are still more travellers? Is this the agreement that you claim from the airport? Because it is true: in the end there is no expansion of the Prat airport in the next five years. But what about Reus and Girona? That's to say, we reproduce the model..., come on, we avoid Barcelona, but we transport it to other parts of the country? I mean, let's outsource the problem. That's not the solution either. In this sense, however, I would like to make an incisive to the lords of the commons, because it is very good to defend or say no to the expansion of the airport, but saving the delta is also to say no to the ARE, it is also to say no to speculative operations, and that should also be taken into account. I said, let's go back to the beginning. You are critical of the Olympic Games' candidacy, but at the same time defend it, at the same time recognize that it alone is not a change or is not the solution for the Pyrenees. Who's his proposal to the Pyrenees? Because, for the time being, the only thing we've heard is the Winter Olympics candidacy. We didn't hear anything else. And we heard that because there's a series of investments and infrastructure that this candidacy, but we didn't hear much more. Habitat policies. In housing policies we could have a long way to go. And it's true, there are measures in his plan of government, but it's not clear to us whether it's 1,000_million euros a year or reach 1,000_million euros a year, because it's different things. It is different that in 2022 there are 1,000_million assumptions that in the end 2025 there are 1,000_million euros in the assumption. It's different things, and that's not clear to us. At the same time, it is true that we have certainly improved in public matters, but we still have drawings of people denounced for doing what it would be like to do to public administrations, which is defending the right to housing. Yesterday drawings of people denounced to Sants, and so every day. Actually, I know it's hard, counselor, but Miquel Buch didn't put up so many. We're gonna have to have a look at each other. You said – and he said it yesterday and he repeated it again today – "rebel against the intruders. Exactly. Rebelling us against inertia is also that, when the State goes against the common sense, the government is placed at the expense of organized movement and popular movement. That's it. And this was the object of the investment agreement, which the government is placed at the side of the common sense and at the side of the organized movement. Because of experiences in which the State goes against the common sense we have infinites. The list of weights is enormous and eternal. The problem is that the list that the government isn't doing with the way it feels is too long, and it's urgent that I change that. And yes, in the end I'm back at the airport: you've been moving' a little bit. But it was hard for them to get on with the common sense and we still don't know what their proposal is for Prat airport. They're still talking about the 1.700_million reversal as a solution, but we're still not clear on what kind of enlargement they want and whether they really want to fight the climate change or not. We're not clear. In the same way that we are not clear whether what they want is to really change the product model of this country or not to reproduce the usual patterns. To Mr Batet – and I would say that, by extension, to the Vice President of the Government, who has also made exclamations at some point with those of the no, "the Catalonia of the no – I will say to him: no, it is the problem that you are the ones of the always Catalonia. We are the people of Catalonia of yes, the people of Catalonia who say so, and who mean so much. And here I will reproduce the words of the Garcés Navy on the day of the demonstration of the airport of Prat: "The thing that makes them so much to hear is that ours is not what you say, that in catalá also means a lot and that means enough. We've got enough life, enough ideas, enough gain, enough knowledge and enough trouble to say enough to take on the skin in the name of common interest. That's enough. I, as I said before, who wants the airport? Apart from Mr. Illa, Mr. Puignado and the bench on the right. Who wants the airport? We know the answer: the employer and those who work for them are public. They make themselves 'hommirate, some of them who are settled here. As I said, "follow the money, say the slogan. If we follow the money trail, we'll hear the world. And that's how we understand it and understand it and patim every day. Because it's not just a few meters of track, it's a lot of business, investments and pacts that's behind it – behind it, not at the front; behind it. Why, I'm going back to saying, what's the August 2 accord? We want to know. No tea. There's a note of premsa. What's the August 2 chord? And they say it's a conflict between models. Some simplify it with the Catalonia of no and Catalonia of yes. So no, it's much simpler. It's a class conflict. And this conflict exemplifies itself with the airport, but it goes much further. It goes with the majority of policies that have been applied in this country for years, and that is why it is urgent to rebel against inertia, Mr President. That is why it is essential to rebel against inertia. You too. Rebelling against inertia. And here we're going to say again: we think it's a widely shared opinion that the table has been a weakness, and we're going to say it again. And it's that the problem is that we're skeptical, we've always said, it's written infinitely, and it's written in agreement, but now it's perplexed, what we have. There is more than enough to describe it, because it has been used – said Carles Riera before – to continue with party battles. And let's say again: I have the political intelligence to use our resolution proposal as a pressure element in the dialog table. And finally, the feminist, green and democratic social change that your defense needs courage. And if he fails in his commitments, he does not fail us, he does not fail the UPC, he fails the country, he fails the people, who are tired of the political class failing systematically. And that's why for us, salutation, labor, sotre, pa, education, justice, independence and freedom are our flags. You said four. We'll give you a few more. They're our flags, which we don't think we'll give up. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.29.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.30.0	Thank you, President, and good again takes everyone and everyone. I have a number of issues, and therefore I will try to be brief. The first one. President, I don't know about you, I don't think so, but at least we haven't come to Catalan politics to be mediators or referees. Obviously, that we have come to build bridges, that we have come to extend our hands whenever I continue to care more and better for our people, but we have not come to be mediators or referees, and if that has become clear today, and you have all understood it, I already give myself for satisfaction. Therefore, thank you very much for the words that you said to us this morning, because it is true that we have come to this; we are a force that you plan, that is ruling in Spain, that is ruling in Barcelona, and that you plan and have also proposed for Catalonia. And I think Mr. Batet understood very well. In fact, Mr Batet himself said: "It is that the project of the commons and the project of Junts for Catalonia are antagonistic. Therefore, of course, we have plans, we have proposals. Then I'll get a little bit more into this, but I'll insist again: if today it's clear that we're not referees and we're not mediators, I'm already giving up for satisfaction. And on the line Mr. Batet was commenting on, they're antagonistic projects. And I ask myself, Mr. Batet: how have you advanced Catalonia in the last two years? What? What's your project about? What's it been for? How has people's lives improved? Do we have more self-government now than before? I'd say no, you're common sense that you don't; you know, you don't. There are no more social policies now, and better? No, you know not. In fact, we're still trying to lift up your flaps. And you opposed it to Barcelona. So let's see what happened in Barcelona the last few years. So, look, we're making more public housing than ever before. In fact, we're doing all the public housing that your government doesn't do. [[Widow's remorse.]] We are pioneers with a public energy that is the greatest of all the state and that, moreover, its strength today at the Barcelona Assembly voted abstain to eliminate it. Curious. And, in change, you say you want to launch one of Catalonia's. Maybe it's not you. Maybe it's Republican Left and you don't want public energy. It could be. It has to be made clear to us. We are those who have also rejected European awards for social and environmental policies of public contract. We have rejected international awards to the superilla model. Barcelona has been chosen for Microsoft to open an artificial intelligence research hub. Barcelona was chosen world capital of architecture by 2026. Barcelona is the world capital of sustainable food. Barcelona has opened the first LGTBI center with more than twenty-thousand visits the first year. And now I'm going back to ask: What have you done? How have the lives of Catalans and Catalans improved in later years? What? What? They don't know. I, if you tell me three things, will still be more satisfied than you have already made clear to President Aragonès. The second theme. You too, Mr. Batet, – but, well, this subject was also related to the president – have recognized that after almost two years you do not have a coalition culture. They still don't have coalition culture and they're running together since 2015. Before they were out, from 2015 they shared government, and still have no coalition culture. Well, what's for our coalition culture? So for us, coalition culture is that our differences serve to care more and better for our people, to advance the country. That's what it's about. Two different parties, or three different parties, the ones that follow, and that within their differences are capable of agreeing, polishing these differences and making the country move forward. Therefore, what we are dealing with is not to do the travesty until we weaken more, but to be able to agree and pull measures that protect more and better our people. And I'll tell you, President – because you also made reference to the differences of the central government – the day the Government of the Generality bars serve, for example, as ours, to push the minimum wage, I will applaud them. On the day that the barracks of his government serve, like ours, to obtain the pardons – because he remembers that the socialist party was against the pardons in the campaign – I will applaud them. [[Some applause.]] On the day that your government's bars serve to reduce the fallout benefits of the electricity cell, I will applaud you. And the day, for example, that your government's bars serve, like ours, to have a law that protects the rights of trans people, I will applaud them. But so far we've seen the opposite. What we have seen is that its differences make us go backwards with the country, do not make us move forward with the country. So, while I'm at it, I'd appreciate it if you could explain to me why your stalls are being used. For what? How do people's lives improve? Their differences are turned into bars in the struggle for power. Our differences – and this is the great abyss between one government and another – are that they end up with measures that advance the country. That's the big difference. The third issue, the third one I wanted to talk about. You, President, have begun your reply complaining about the lack of proposals from opposition groups. I don't know if he was coming with the prepared speech from home and he didn't listen to us or if he seemed to be – I also have to say – that the reply was written by Gabriel Rufián because he spent more time talking about what happens in Madrid than about the proposals and speeches we made here today to our intervention at the general policy debate. I haven't done a few of them, and I'd particularly like to hear what they've been saying. I have spoken of three plans, I have spoken of the plan for an active Catalonia, to end the vital precariousness of an entire generation; the plan for Catalonia just to balance the balance, and the plan for a green Catalonia, to bring forward a transition that is unaffordable for all. But it's also that I personally asked him – moreover, I insisted enough – and I dedicated time to my intervention to ask him for a plan to diversify hatred – not hate, oci, I forgive – to give alternatives to youth. And he didn't say anything at all. It is that it did not refer to one of the proposals that we have made. Because, besides, within each plaza, I've been degracing propositions. I even talked to him about examples that are being done in other territories, for example, to improve youth emancipation, as is being done with a final tourist fee in Valencia. And he didn't tell us anything at all. Another topic I also wanted to discuss, President. It's funny – not to say that it seemed a bit..., it made us stunned – that when we make proposals that please them, they are as if they were party proposals, but when they are proposals that do not please us, they seem to be government. You know we have a proposal for the resolution of the political conflict. He knows, moreover, that these proposals we have worked with Yolanda Díaz, and he also knows that Yolanda Díaz forms part of the table of the dialog between governments. So, shave and enjoy. Or go on, I think there's little more I can add to respect. And I'm done. Mr. Batet. Mr. Batet, it's starting out that it's the same Yolanda Diaz that Mariano Rajoy and he ended up saying that as long as there's a government of Uniteds we can and in common we can that of the People's Party and VOX. Therefore, I would ask you for a little bit of prudence and common sense in your words, because in the end the party interests are so much confused with the country interests that they are barbarized from this style. And now I'm done, and I'm done. And I want to end the very brief fears. The first one. President, you said, "I haven't talked about Hard Rock, Hard Rock isn't on the government floor. So I'm asking you that, if they've let go of the Hard Rock project, that's what I'm saying, because, of course, today I think more than one has taken a surprise, mainly at Camp Tarragona. Therefore, it would be good if you have abandoned this, they explain it: "Look, we've left the Hard Rock behind. And if they don't, they'll explain it, too. I think it would be interesting. And the other thing I wanted to do to finish, and this is for all the deputies and the deputies. I believe that before a government we see that it is passed or is continuous, because from a new model produced by it we see very little, we need to work more than ever in this Parliament to have a Parliament that is still entrepreneurial and to straighten out the course of Catalonia once and for all. We're in a few moments of maximum complexity, maximum need. We are a country that is still broken by inequality and, therefore, it would be good for us not to stand idly by and complain continually about what the government does or does not do, but to bring from this Parliament all the proposals that we know will help to improve the life of the citizenry. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.31.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. I have seen today, for the first time, a nationalist politician recognize the impact – and I would say « the devastating impact – that has caused in Catalonia the flight of companies caused by the process..., caused by the process. But Mr Aragonès has done it, this recognition that yes, that a recognition has been made mistakes, it has not come to say, it has not been resolved, but it has given a surrealistic argument. He has told us, Mr Aragonès, that a year ago Catalonia had 18.4 of the companies throughout Spain and that now it has 19.5 and he has said it with pride, as if the cause were not that the pandemic has destroyed so many companies in Spain that the relative number of those in Catalonia has varied a little. I mean, that proportion you give, Mr Aragonès, is not indicative of anything of prosperity or economic recovery from decay. Yes, the economic decline that you have brought to Catalonia and if this is all your defense, on the issue of corporate flight to other communities because of economic instability and legal uncertainty caused by the process, is that in the background you, Mr Aragonès, know perfectly well that you are destroying Catalonia. And this is very serious, because the wealth, the dynamism of our Catalan economy, once proverbial or paradigmatic, depends on companies, and social services and culture depend on this wealth. And people and families have a right to you to make us rich and not to impoverish us. And this also, by the way, connects me to the night terrors that we suffer some when we hear according to what things in this Parliament, when the way the CUP goes about saying: "More travelers, more travelers to Barcelona, I don't know how many kilos of CO2 and I don't know what... Ostras, you think: "There are those who are on the decline. It's just that some people think that the economy has to hit a stop and they're its partners. They're his partners. How rich you must be in a country and what a solution you must have..., you must have some life to advocate the decline of the economy! In no poor country can they think of reducing the economy. Here we are so rich and so rich are some of the parties that are said to be more popular or more by the disadvantaged classes, they are so rich that it enters its parameter that we all go to plant cribs in the countryside and that is the sustainable economy and proper that we have in Catalonia. Of course, it's a little scary. And, look, then I want to refer to something that you referred to in the speech and told me... You reiterated to me that we are in the antepods, that when I went and brought you the eight proposals for coexistence, you found and reiterated to me here that we are in the antepods. And I believe that when I say: "Yes, the eight points, for we will have to explain a little what they are and let us see the nature of those points where we are in the antipodes. That's good! What a good opportunity you have given me, Mr. Aragonès, for everyone to know what I brought you and what you considered to be in the antipodes! Point one, equality before the law. Politicians are the same as any other citizen and are subject to law as any other citizen. We're in the antepods. Are we in the antepods? You said this: "We are in the antipodes. I believe in that; you don't. Secondly, the vote of all Catalans is worth the same. That is, the people of the metropolitan area of Barcelona or Tarragona, whose vote is worth two, up to two and a half times less than the vote of other people from other parts of Catalonia with which you, by the way, get the electoral advantage, that equal value of the vote, that, we are in the antipodes, Mr Aragonès, you have said it. They talk about changing the electoral law, but in that, on that issue of democratic justice, we are in the antipodes. Thirdly, to create the conditions for investment and economic growth. Listening to the CUP, we're in the antepods, of course, to their CUP partners, we're in the antepods. We promote political stability and legal certainty, we are in the antipodes. Four, respect the feelings of Spanishness, we are in the antipodes, aren't we? You do not respect the rights of Spanishness. Their political movement does not respect them, the feelings of Spanishness that, by the way, have the majority of Catalans, to some extent some more and others less, but most Catalans also feel Spanish: Spanish, Catalans and Europeans. The people of Ciutadans always say that: Spanish, Catalan and European. You don't respect him, we're in the antipodes. Fifthly, normalize the use of Spanish in public institutions, in education, in institutions. Of course we have to support Catalan, of course we do. Of course it has been done; it is being done from democracy; it is being done, but not at the cost of cornering the mother tongue of most Catalans, and it is already there. If we all work for that. What we do not want is for Spanish to be cornered in this way in teaching, not to be used as a vehicle language, to be used as trilingualism, Spanish, Catalan and English. Six, TV3 and Catalunya Radio plurals – plurals –; plurality in the public media. Are we in the antepods? Come out here, come out here, please, that I want journalists to take it and pick it up and you say: "Plurality on TV3 and the public media, we are in the antipodes. We don't want that plurality. Say it, say it. It is a court for democratic countries to see how they conceive here in Catalonia of the subject of plurality. Seven, neutrality of the institutions. That we're in the antepods. We call for neutrality... Ciutadans calls for neutrality in institutions! We're in the antepods, it just can't be. Eight, cease attacks on state institutions: the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, the crown, the National Police, the..., the whole conglomerate, all those symbols and institutions that represent Spain, cease their attacks. Are we in the antepods? Well, listen. So, if of eight things like this, at eight you are in the antipodes, if you can't even talk about the neutrality of the institutions and TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio plurales, of course, in Catalonia, some are very far from democratic normality, you are very much in the antipodes of democratic normality, indeed. But we will continue to claim these eight points which are a model of coexistence and a sign of democratic normality. We also expect the Socialist Party to defend eight such basic points. And count on you, too, Your Honor, to oppose us to the way in which a half of Catalonia enquisted in our institutions avasalla to the other half. And I tell him... I want to answer him. You: « Mr Carrizosa, Mr Fernández, Mr Carrizosa, Mr Fernández..., here I think someone is missing, but good. You: « Mr Carrizosa, Mr Fernández, we have to talk. We must all speak, Mr Carrizosa, Mr Fernández. I say to you: if I use part of my time to recriminate the Socialist Party its position, let us say, as an eternal candidate for a tripartite government, its modulation of criticisms to a nationalist regime that is really impoverishing us, damaging us, which does not respect elementary standards of coexistence, it is because I would really like it, Your Honor, not only because I like you as well as..., too, fix yourself, Mr Fernández also likes you. I like you too, and I would love to do politics... And, listen, I will do it with you too, Mr. antipoda Aragonès – you who are my antipoda – I will also do it in that which favors Catalans. But, Your Honor, the pedagogical courage of the Socialist Party to plant itself – to plant itself – in front of nationalism and to say: "This, no, do not call us repressive – do not call us repressive, for it would be very useful, because a lot of Catalans would start to think that it is time to overcome this black stage that we are living in Catalonia." And, finally, those who are placed in the antipodes of coexistence, equality, respect, plurality, plural media, it is you who have to advance a long way to gain the consideration and respect of the Democrats. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.34.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Pere Aragonès has released in his replica, with a softer tone than Quim Torra, that favors you– Quim Torra in that was a mine, and you seem to flee from certain conflicts – but he has released a good bouquet of falsehoods, of lies. The first thing he has said is to accuse the opposition generically of not posing any alternative. That's logical for me to say about the PSC, because it's obvious that you've offered to be your crutch before you – you're eagerly looking forward to it since the start of the legislature – but you can't say anything about us as much as we're a minority group. We have put forward proposals in economics and taxation, in public security, in education, in health or in civics which are exactly the opposite of what you do, which are therefore diametrically opposed to what you propose and, consequently, are an alternative to book: the opposite of what you propose, the diametrically opposed to what you exercise. He has also said some falsehood by blaming the opposition as a whole – the whole – not having been able to provide figures to refute the data that you had provided in your endless – and I must say what, in short, of midiada – intervention he made yesterday and which we all enjoyed fervently as well. [[Widow's remorse.]] I, this morning, have respectfully challenged you to refute the data by which we placed from our parliamentary group to Catalonia in a position of decadence: in vandalism, leaders throughout Spain; illegal occupation, leaders throughout Spain; barracks in the education system, leaders throughout Spain; waiting lists in the health system, leaders throughout Spain; confiscation taxes, leaders throughout Spain. You have not even been unable to enter to rebut that data. He has dared – he has surprised me, but he has done it – to enter one of the headings that I have proposed to him, which is that of the flight of companies, but he has made a calculation, you, very special, very worthy – that I said the other day to Mr. Giró – of the trillero of the Ramblas, which hides the ball from you to see if he deceives you. You said that you assumed that the cost, in short, of the relocation of large companies was enormous, but that it remained part of the calculation because it was due to other factors. Mr. Aragonès, with your calculation method, you measure 1.90 and I 2.05, and we are the escort and the cheerleader holders of the Spanish basketball selection. [[Rialles.]] Isn't that what the Tato doesn't swallow? It is exactly the same with the data that you have offered to Catalan society today. [[Widow's remorse. Rialles.]] Thank you. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.35.0	Next, Mr. Albert Batet has the word on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.36.0	Thank you very much, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies... A few brief words, but... Clearly, it seemed, Mrs. Albiach, that instead of making a reply to the President of the Generality I made to the President of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, right? I try... (Some applause. Wire remorse. ) Miri, Mrs. Albiach, few lessons of coalition culture, because the daily performance you make at the Barcelona Assembly and the Government of Spain is terrible. You're terrible. Few lessons of coalition culture. I, miri, about Barcelona; we are not in the plenary of the Barcelona Assembly and, in fact, today there is a plenary at the Barcelona Assembly. And as far as Barcelona is concerned, it is difficult and difficult, that even you yourselves, the lords of the commons, today, and at the instigations of a Member of Parliament here, of Elsa Artadi, of Juntes per Catalunya, have approved an imminent plan of action against the degradation of Barcelona. ( Some applause.) That's the reality. And look, you say, "Differences that we might find between... that, listen, a PP government with you is such a different government, that they come together. Okay. What a total difference. So, man, of course, it's that you already rule. And during this time, the People's Party government approved the law bite and you, for the time being, kept it, and they didn't repeal it. The People's Party Government has approved the LRSAL, which is the third competition in the municipalities and local administration, and you, for the time being, the commons, the Podemos, the Government of the State, maintained, and have not repealed it. The government of the People's Party approved..., approved on October 17, because it can leave the businesses of Catalonia, a decree law for the flight of the enterprises, and you, for the moment, to the falls of the ministry, continue to maintain it, this law. Moreover, the digital decree, this one no longer approved by the People's Party, already approved by you with the Socialist Party. It's more, he hasn't talked about the price of energy, that you haven't talked to him this morning, but I'll give him the last brush, that I don't think you'll have any differences either with the People's Party or with Citizens or even with VOX, which is that the king emerit is running away and the government helps him. ( Some applause.) And that's the reality. Therefore, few differences and few lessons. And look, Mr. Illa, I'll also start with a compliment, if you'll allow me, that I appreciate your sincerity. I thank him for the sincerity of his speech this morning to reinforce our initial intervention on who respects the dialect. I think being honest and honest is very important in politics and expressing it in your parliament is a value that needs to be recognized. And you said it again today. He repeated that, as Pedro Sánchez said, without denouncing himself, in the Palau de la Generalitat de Catalunya, amnesty and self-determination are an unreal and impossible objective to assume. And that's what you said back here in the Parliament of Catalonia. We appreciate the frankness, miri. We understand, therefore, that the meeting agenda is the only proposal they have for Catalonia, right? The famous rendezvous that we have to talk about and that you also talk about, rendezvous, that this is the way to try to seduce this fifty-two-per-cent Catalan independenceists who want to stop being Spanish to be only Catalans in a state. But, of course, who's the calendar of the reunion that you're offering us? Is it the agenda of the meeting that yesterday approved the airport plan without the expansion of the Prat airport? Is it the calendar of the reunion that I want more castella in the classrooms like two days ago the Minister of Education? Is it the agenda of the reunion that I lost the català of the audiovisual sector, and today the minister said yes, that yes, that this strength was to be maintained by the castle? Is this the agenda of the meeting called for, through the State Advocate, thirteen and fourteen years of incapacity for mayor and lieutenant mayor of Rápita per l'U d'Octubre? Is it the agenda of the reunion that today the Spanish National Audience has prosecuted thirteen members of the CoR to belong to a terrorist organization? Mr. Illa, you'll admit that this setback is a little peculiar. Sometimes, they say, there are loves that kill, right? I mean, it's a little weird backstage. A will to seduce a little hard, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] I mean, they'll understand it's complicated. But you also said, with your alternate government – and I say it with affection and respect – that, listen, this government the Generality does not manage, that it is inactive. Look, I'll tell you three examples, to recognize the activity that this government has done in these months that is ahead. The first is a government – and you, who have been Minister of Health, will know about the complexity – that has put more than 11 million cows in an exceptional context. And this has to be valued, and I know that you value it because you said it. So, a very important action. Second, the drop to forty per cent of university masters with the pre-project and the pre-project law of science. The whole field of research and universities is essential for the future of a country. Third, from a point of view of social optics: the Reallotgem programme, which has put up denunciations of vulnerable people with an initial allocation of 20_million euros, which has drawn forward the Constellera Cervera. Three very important actions, which I think you share that are worthwhile actions and that we must continue to fight for them. And, finally, look, you were talking that if I blow judo or... look, I... Already, Mrs. Raquel Sans and Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra know me because they're from Valls. And, therefore, I don't blow judo. ( Widow's remorse. Rialles. ) I'm punching pinya. (Laughter.) I sock castler and make castles. ( Some applause.) And look, I don't wear a black belt, but the one I put on is a strip of castles. (Laughter.) And by luck, now, thanks to Procicate, it seems to me that we can already recover the castellar activity. And that is precisely why, because of the will to make Pinya, president, we insist on this culture of unity that must have all the independence forces and this culture of coalition. Mr. Illa, we wouldn't be at the same glue, I warn you, and I've seen you have a very good relationship with Mr. Carrizosa and Mr. Fernández. I'll take another glue, all right? But I understand that this culture of unity and these values... the young man is from the same glue that I imagine. [[Rialles.]] This culture is what we need to strengthen, what we need to strengthen, what we need to commit ourselves to strengthening among all: unity culture and coalition culture. It's a plan we share that I think with all the independent groups of this chamber, that we just don't go anywhere, that we're only able to move forward together. And we have an objective, which is to give an answer to this fifty-two-per-cent Catalans who want independence. And this has to be done willingly, generously, with great care, with complicity, with unity, by making pinya. I'm convinced we'll all do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.37.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Batet. And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Josep Maria Jové.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.38.0	Thank you very much, President. Article 510 of the Criminal Code: "Those who provoke discrimination, hatred or violence against groups or associations, by racist, anti-Semitic or other motius referring to ideology, religion or creed, family situation, the belonging of their members to one ethnic group or race, their national origin, their sex, their sexual orientation, malaltia or disability, shall be punished by imprisonment for one to three years and a fine of six to twelve months. We would already like this article to be applied closely, but we know that they are very well protected and have absolute impunity. Against fascism, always. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-29-1202.39.0	Thank you very much. Therefore, after this intervention by the deputy chairman of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, who allows me to subscribe to all and every one of his words, remember Article 7.2 of the Code of Conduct of the Members, because at all times we must maintain..., I have done so on other occasions, but according to the statements made today in this House, I remember that the Members must maintain at all times a respectful attitude and conduct not only all the rest of the Members, but also with the citizens and, therefore, an exemplary attitude of agreement with this principle of equality and non-discrimination on grounds of gender, sex, sexual orientation, beliefs, ideology, ideas, origin or social condition, ethnicity or any other. Article 15 of the Rules of Procedure also refers to this code of conduct. And the debate ended, complimenting the articles related to the Rules, the reminder that the processing of the motions for resolutions subsequent to this debate will be the following: the deadline for the submission of motions for resolutions is until today, thirty minutes after the adjournment of the session, therefore, today at six o'clock. The communication to the parliamentary groups of the proposals accepted by the Bureau will come to an end once the Bureau meeting which will take place later, and the deadline for submitting the compromise proposals will be until tomorrow at 12 noon, in an unlikely way. The communication to the parliamentary groups of the proposals accepted by the Bureau will start at two-quarters of a session for the debate and the vote on the motions for resolutions will resume tomorrow at four o'clock in the afternoon. They suspect the session. Thank you very much.
