ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.1.0	Good morning. Please, if they can occupy their escons, we'll start this today's Plethora. Before I start, I'd like to make an element. Last week we started the session by mentioning the fires that had taken place those days. Unfortunately, between the past Ple and today, the fire has cremated in various regions in our country: Empordà and above all in the Conca de Barbera and the Anoia. This summer's worst fire has affected Santa Coloma de Queralt, Bellprat and Sant Martí de Tous. I want to show my thanks to all the professionals, to all the emergency services, the volunteers, the pages, to everyone who has fought the flames and the fire and is now facing the side effects of these fires. In forty days – it seems to me that it is important to give these figures – they have cremated in Catalonia some 2,640 hectares of forest and crops. A cipher multiplying by 70 times the data of the same period of the past year. It's the worst fire in the past fifteen years, the worst record in the past fifteen years. And the worst of all is that, in most cases, it seems that these fires are either intended, or they have caused human negligence. Therefore, we find ourselves in a situation of high fire risk. We can continue to make a public appeal to prudence, to collective responsibility, because any carelessness, any sprinkling can be the origin of a fire, and we should all be extraordinarily responsible and extreme precautions. Thus, at the last meeting of the Spokesperson, which took place yesterday, a statement was approved in support of the Companions of the Bureau of Parliament of the XII legislature, quoted before the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, accused of disobedience for allowing that in this Parliament there may be debate on certain questions. Parliament is, by reason of being and by definition, the place where you can speak and debate everything you consider, that we are the elected representatives of the citizens, with the only limit imposed on us scrupulous respect for democratic principles and popular will. But it is not only necessary to be able to talk about everything, but also to be able to do free; it must be possible to do without interference, without interference, without threats and without impediments on the part of third parties. For this reason, the inviolability of Parliament, collected from the Statute of Catalonia, in Article 55.3, is the basis of Parliamentarism, because it is the guarantee that a representative of the citizenry will not be persecuted for the votes or opinions given in exercise of his or her functions. Therefore, going against the rights of citizens' representatives is going against the rights of all citizens of Catalonia. To pursue criminally those who fulfil their duty to guarantee a truly democratic parliament and it will be necessary to pursue criminally the raison d'être of parliamentarianism and, therefore, the basis of democracy. So, I want to show my support to President Torrent, Vice President Costa and Secretary Eusebi Campdepadrós and Adriana Delgado, before this political cause [[Greetings.]] [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] And before we start with the order of the day and comply with the agreement... [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] I haven't finished in the drill of the word, Mr. Martín Blanco. If you let me finish... [[Pause.]] Before starting with the order of the day and complying with the agreement of the Bureau of 20 July and with the motion 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations to the Mediterranean and to the policies of the gathering of migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data provided by the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of this year 2021 there have been 1,288 victims of..., the deaths of the people who have tried to arrive by sea in Europe. And I also suggest that, in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons, on the celebration still in reduced format of the plenary sessions, at the present pandemic circumstances, there are sixty-nine Members who have delegated their vote for this morning, and sixty-eight Members who will do so for the continuation of the session. And now, if there's no more questions, we'd get to the first point of the order of the day. Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.2.0	For a call to the observance of the Rules, according to Rule 90.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.3.0	And what article do you want to refer to?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.4.0	In Article 39: the functions of the Presidency of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.5.0	Mr. Martin Blanco, we've already found ourselves in this circumstance. Rule 39 has to do with my functions as president, and in the Rules it is envisaged that the president can make statements at the beginning of the plenary, as I am now doing. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.6.0	But no statements to the court order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.7.0	No, it's not contrary to legal order because it regulates our Rules. And, therefore, I have made use of the word to set out a statement from the Board of Spokespersons that was in place yesterday. And I have added a statement, to personal title, speaking first person, as a statement from the president, as provided for in the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.8.0	Excuse me, President. You have to order the debates impartially. And it's obvious that she's suffocating...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.9.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I didn't give you the word. We're not talking, you and me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.10.0	But you have to be impartial...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.11.0	He asked me for the word for an article you have to see with my way of directing the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.12.0	Madam President, you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.13.0	Mr. Martín Blanco... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. [[The president withdrew the microphone's use to Ignacio Martín Blanco and he continued to speak for a few moments.]] Mr. Martín Blanco, the cry to order, doesn't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, are you... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, I call you back to order. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, do I have to call you back to order? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you have called me to observe the Rules for Rule 39. Article 39 has to do with the way in which I carry out my duties as the President of Parliament. I'm... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, listen to me, because I'll call you back to order. We're not making a dialog. You asked me for the word, and I'm answering it. So I'd ask you to listen to me when I'm in charge, because you don't have the word. I say: Article 39 has to do with the way I conduct the debates and have to do with my assignments. You have already rejected any warning on the part of the press about your supposed consideration of impartiality in my presidency exercise at the Board of Spokespersons. I'm telling him I made a statement as required by the Rules. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I didn't make a statement, I made a statement as required by the Rules. So, you don't have the word and we start the session. [[Request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me of the management and evolution of the fifth wave of the covid pandemic-19]] [[361-00006/13]] The first item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the request for the President of the Generality to appear before the plenary to inform me of the management and evolution of the fifth wave of the covid pandemic. According to the Rules of Procedure... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, if you can keep quiet, they'll help me. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the requesting parliamentary group will intervene in the first place, and the rest of the parliamentary groups will be able to intervene to express their position. Thus, he has the word to expose the reasons for the request to appear, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Common We can, Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.14.0	Well, thank you. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Without the publicity of President and Mr Nacho Martín Blanco. Anyway, we wanted to start this Ple, too, didn't we? , claiming the appearance of the President of the Generality, Mr Aragonès, in order to be able to debate an issue that we believe is relevant, that it is the management of the fifth wave of the covid on behalf of the Government of the Generality, and also to have answers to questions that we understand are necessary and that also claim the conjunction of the citizenry. I want to start with a preview. Or, we understand – and more so, on the coast, too, don't we? , to hear from another gang – that it was reasonable that in a context of five years, of primary care collapsing, with the ICUs reaching seven hundred patients, with a government that has approved resolutions that suspend the health care that is not coveted, when Catalonia has struck the contagious memory in the European Union, or, for example, when the economic recovery is able to encourage and can, also, be affected, in this case, the tourist season, we understand that it should be reasonable that the President of the Government appeared, and did, also, voluntarily. In fact, he did it for months when we were, in this case, in the pre-election period – and we wouldn't want to think that then he's ugly because he was in the pre-election period – and it's not today, that we're in a situation that's complicated, that's more difficult, and that's more impacting on the conjunction of citizenship. We understand that there are questions that need answers. The first: why has primary care, after one year, returned to col·lapsing? After a year and a half of pandemic we don't have more professionals to strengthen primary care. The second: why at the beginning of July, with a record of pandemic incidence, are macro-musical festivals celebrated? The third: why is it producing a new descalation, accelerated like Nadal's, opening the night before Sant Joan, when the delta variant has arrived? Fourth: why does the government go forward and go on, baptizing like now without a mask, now with a mask? The fifth: why has Catalonia lost its tracking capacity again and why does fifty per cent of people not complete quarantine? But, finally, we also believe that we should give explanations as to why, when citizens are required, when restrictions of rights apply, such as in this case, also restrictions of assembly volume, of persons gathered, or, for example, also, the curfew, why, when efforts are being made to citizens, are there members of their government who skip restrictions? And I want to insist on this: they're restrictions, we don't recommend them. And Mr. Puignero is still waiting for him to explain why a member of the Government of the Generality has skipped the restrictions set by his own Health Advisor. And I demand that you give explanations, that Mr. Puignero give them, that they assume responsibilities and, in any case, that he order his Government, because it cannot be demanded of the citizenry responsibility and, in any case, also complete the restrictions that the Generality marks, and that his Government does not do so. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.15.0	Next and to position themselves on behalf of parliamentary groups, they have a maximum time of three minutes. And in the first place, the Member of the House, Mrs Escarp, on behalf of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, would put it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.16.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. The Socialist Parliamentary Group supports the request of the President of the Generality to appear. And, besides, we want to state that we consider that the appearance should be substantiated today itself. In fact, as Congressman Cid did, we would like to remind you that you were appearing every fifteen days, in anticipation of the elections. And the pandemic has not ended: we have a perspective of seven hundred people at the UCI, 165 municipalities of Catalonia with the death toll, oci nocturn restricted, meetings of no more than two people. And when we have, despite the data, a social perception of the lowest pandemic, we could say a perception of a certain normality. So sure is that yesterday the Health Advisor compared, as it is true that the social, economic and health impact of this issue is very strong. The appearance of the President of the Generality could provide us with a more cross-cutting view, more of a compromise of the whole government, from Health to Interior, through Culture, Presidency or any department. In fact, yesterday we also knew a manifesto of almost fifty scientific societies that alerted us, asked us to restrict social interactions and recognized that they had not anticipated what could come. They ask us to ask for sensitivity and responsibility. To demand responsibility, to raise awareness, what we have to do is to be exemplary in our actions. And you'll forgive me, but seeing the vice president, he'll find more than twenty people, without a mask, failing to meet the standards and contradicting everything he asks for, he doesn't help people. The contrast with the restrictions imposed on the people and the image of the vice president in order to preserve public salvation is of great political irresponsibility. Other countries are taking other decisions. And, besides, let me 'hodir, nor that it is only for solidarity of the Government: has left against the strings the councillor Argimon. Let's hope that this is the way things are going. We hope that the government's responsibility and exemplarity is not a wish, but a reality. And we've enjoyed talking about it too, today in this appearance. Just as we have been pleased to know how they intend to tackle the descalation of the fifth wave, how we will approach the school year, or what is happening to us in the residences of great people. We think it's worth it and don't leave it by September or October the discussion and debate about one of the hardest waves of this pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.17.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.18.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. We don't like the first months of Pere Aragonès' presidency. The deputies of VOX have the feeling that leads a sad project, atolled, loaded with provincial radicalism and irresponsible improvisation. Mr Aragonès, you are not the leader who needs the Catalan region at a time of deep economic, social and health crisis. Pilot the generality like a gray accountant. Not forty full-length TV3 reports remembering he was a member of Club Super3 are going to turn it into the William Wallace with a bar that aspires to be. Threatened by Waterloo and the anti-system, Pere Aragonès doesn't even have the autonomy to make quiet decisions, he's trapped between the Puigdemont sword and the wall of the CUP barricade. We are not surprised that his first months of government are, therefore, an absolute chaos. We would like, like the two groups that preceded me in the use of the floor, to discuss in depth different issues. First of all, on the negligent and irresponsible management of the fifth wave of the pandemic; also on how to help tourism after destroying the second tourist season; on the effects of the ridiculous wake-up call that you are going to give tomorrow to the Conference of Presidents and the effects this has on Catalonia. And we also want to talk about other issues. For example, the shameful and illegal use of the Catalan Institute of Finance to pay the bail of the strikers, the effects that this has on the aspiration to obtain bank records, and to explain why three members of the Catalan Institute of Finance have resigned. We would also like to talk about their inability to maintain the slightest institutional respect for a region like Aragon to boost some winter games; also about their cowardly ambiguity regarding the enlargement of the Prat. And we would also like to know, of course, the concrete actions it intends to push to reactivate employment and the economy, such as the Catalan one, which has been growing below the Spanish average for more than four years. There are many issues that you need to explain at parliamentary level, Mr Aragonès. I do not know if the appearance will be approved, taking into account the disparity of criteria between Junts and Esquerra lived yesterday on the Board of Spokesmen. In any case, we will vote in favour. Catalonia needs stability, maturity, realism, a president who faces the face and, of course, a president who does not spend the day calling Belgium. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.19.0	Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.20.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, good morning. Congresswoman Laia Estrada, at the last Ple's control session, few days ago, asked him about the management of the covid, Mr President. He asked if his government would maintain the tônica of advancing economic interests in the face of the interests of society and the salvation of all. You had two minutes and a half to answer, while we all agree that it is manifestly insufficient to account for such an important matter in this Parliament. For this reason, the People's Unity Application absolutely needs its appearance. And it's necessary, because that's how you can explain, in depth, concretely, how we've come to this, up to a five-day event that presents the worst figures of incidence in which we carry a crisis of the covid. You presented this five-year-old as something unpredictable and, on the other hand, the advisor Argimon made self-criticism and said that since Salut, things had not been done well, that could not repeat mistakes. The self-criticism that Councillor Argimon has begun must continue you, President, appreciating that there are things that have been wrong. And that's evidence. The onades may exist – and so much so that the onades may exist – but the key is to be prepared to deal with these onades and that always this does not fall to the spaces of a healthcare staff that is absolutely exhausted, and of a public health that has already supported, with great growth and strength, the consequences of the pandemic. That I may appear, president, and that you may appear, and not just the counselor, because the pandemic went beyond a specific counseling. And we need to clarify how we are going to deal with this immediate five-year period, which focuses on a health system that is totally unpacked – and which will convince us that it is the result of the mistakes that have been made over the years and of a series of structural shortcomings that we are brimming with – and that we need a lot of public resources. You too have made us clear as we face the social determinants of salvation. We're recording the worst data on impoverishment and we have an obligation to fight this. As Congresswoman Estrada explained, the drama of the health crisis is not only counting the beds of the ICU, but also with the figures of denunciation, with the taxes of the day and with the other indicators of inequality. It's clear that the cage goes through barrels and that it always affects the most vulnerable. And if we're talking about maximum vulnerability, we also need to talk about internal people in prison centers, as it happens to Brians 1 today, where prisoners are in a situation of absolute confinement for a macrobroth that there is, with suspense of rights. And, therefore, you must come to this Parliament and clarify how to fight this. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.21.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning and good hour. We are here to join the petition of the commons because the very honorable president of the Generality, Pere Aragonès, appear before the Ple of this chamber to inform about the management and evolution of the fifth wave of the covid. Bearing in mind that the Councillor of Salut, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, inflates himself to inform us and even to flood us with powerpoints on the subject, this petition of appearance could seem the typical political turret, gains to make him pass a bad stump to the president on account of a mena of biblical plague that is not the fault of anyone. Error. What we want is to protect the Councillor of Salut and all those responsible for our health from the overload of having to twist the technical and political explanations of what is happening. God maleeixi not only the virus, but the first or the first one who came to him who could get political performance. Automatically, he condemned us all to be a currency of change; on occasion, mortals. The people saw, frightened and indignant, like everything they had taught us to believe was snoring like a castle of cards. The world's best public health did not give or give the abst; the cows came and went; the restrictions were not believed nor did Vice President Puigneró, who must actually think that a paella with Pilar Rahola and Carles Puigdemont gives immunity from that which they say in flock. It is not that the commons and Citizens are what is said from a pine tree, but the two groups were able to agree to the last legislature, and in this, to keep it, to ask for a commission of inquiry as to what exactly happened to the residents of great people with the pandemic, of how many dead or unworthy they could not have avoided doing things in another way, perhaps; above all they were, perhaps, Juntes and Esquerra, more willing to fight for who controlled what to do the work. I explained to the Health Commission yesterday that as a journalist I had knowledge of terrible stories, horrific experiences of families that did not just lose opinions and opinions, couples and seas, but that in some cases they were denounced, they, for some health care officer – hopefully out of control – they had to give explanations to the Mosso and even pay a luxury lawyer from their butxaca, of those who normally can only be paid for the accused of the trial or some member of the Bureau of Parliament who has much to stop being so if he cannot impose a surrealistic, sectarian and illegal interpretation of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Is it possible that there are residents and hospitals in Catalonia that, some day they have to fall on a _manate of quarrels, decide to complain against some victim of the covid? We don't know for sure, but it's the least thing so hard that we think it's worth investigating. It's just an example of the set of scenes that can be drawn when in an hour so hard and so hard it hasn't just become clear who's coming. Now that it seems that there is a more or less defined line of command or a more or less unique command, let's hope that the President of the Generalitat..., take a step, not side by side or back, but forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.23.0	Next and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.24.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, last week Republican Left – MP Jordi Albert – brought us here a motion, I don't know how many thousand points, where almost everyone talked about they were going to continue working to alleviate the effects of the epidemic, of the health crisis, etc.. If you're going to keep working like this until now, stop; stop, because Catalonia goes to the head of the fifth wave. Yesterday we had Mr. Argimon's appearance, and then he gave us a whole series of justifications. He told us that here in Catalonia, then, we received a lot of tourism. Yeah, just like other autonomous communities. He also told us that the delta variant was affecting us. Yeah, just like other autonomous communities. He told us that he had also changed social perception because the mask had been removed. Yes, as in the rest of the autonomous communities. He also told us that this increase in cases had been accompanied by end-of-course travel. I imagine that in the rest of Spain also the end-of-course travel students have gone. However, here we head the fifth wave. Why? Because there is a management that is not being done correctly, and at least I believe that the President of the Government should come out here to explain or to give his face, which, for example, has been done by Councillor Argimon, who, look, I recognize him, at least he is quite braver than you, Mr Aragonés, and he takes my blame and recognizes the mistakes, which also scares me enough. I'm quite afraid the counselor will come out and say, "Well, we're wrong about the macro-events, we shouldn't have done them. Oh, well, it's okay. Hey, let's try it out, see what happens, huh? Tomorrow, if anything, because we also go out and set up a macrofest here, to see what happens within fifteen days. I think we need to be a little more cautious – more cautious – because we are giving, above all, an example to citizens. And every time we announce one thing, and then it turns out that we have to take steps back, because we also create frustration in the population, which are, moreover, bearing all the measures and all the restrictions in an exemplary way. So I think, what a small thing to be exemplary also from the government. And I also say to him: images like the independenceist jar that Mr. Puignero has mounted do not come well – do not come well, Mr. Aragonès. A few months ago in his tweet, after passing the covid, Mr. Puignero, said to us: "I just hope that we will all learn together. Well, it seems like no, it seems you haven't learned Mr. Puigneró. And what I hope is that we will be able, first of all, to set an example from the institutions; secondly, not to give sticks of blindness– we cannot now say ‘yes macroevents, then' not macroevents, and then, thirdly, to have enough honesty and courage to come here and appear. I think it would not have to be a request from any group, but I think it would have had to come out of yourself to explain why Catalonia is immersed in this fifth wave and also leads it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.25.0	Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament Mònica Sales has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.26.0	Thank you, President. From the Juntas for Catalonia and with a brief position, we will also vote in favour of this request for the President of the Government of Catalonia to be present to share with the Members the activity and diagnosis around the pandemic of covid-19, as soon as it is to be substantiated, even though today we have done it in an unforeseeable plethora, now incorporated into the calendar of sessions of the chamber. We want to make manifest, however, that this government has made and will make those explanations necessary to give to know the last figures and the last actions related to the pandemic. Serve as an example of yesterday's appearance in his parliamentary office, in the framework of the Health Commission, of Councillor Argimon, with figures, with data, with platforms, with protocols and with all kinds of details. But since the information is never left, we are convinced that the government will make this new appearance of good grace, especially because it is a subject of great interest, with constant innovations and changes, that it wants transparency and also appreciably to the citizenry and action. Taking advantage of this short time of intervention, I would like to remind the citizenry of this help letter that the health service collects at these five-year times, which directly appeals to us and to our attitudes at a complex time. And let's make a call to vaccination, as long as I can appreciate everyone's effort for this good rhythm we have in the country, with some figures this week reaching 9_million doses administered and 5_million people vaccinated with at least one of these doses. The effort is ingenious and, as a society, we must contribute to it. Yesterday, Councillor Argimon gave us an appearance and, if I may today, the paraphrase: "We are on holiday – some of us are on holiday – but we are also in a pandemic and, for this reason, the very weeks are closed. With the desire that the moment we substantiate this appearance the figures remain better and the situation remains more stable, as I have already advanced, from the Group of Joints for Catalonia we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.27.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.28.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Deputies, on behalf of the Republican Left Group, we will obviously also vote in favour of this appearance. We are always in favour of what transparency is, explanations and accountability. Throughout this pandemic, since the first moment, which represented this government has done so; in its moment, the councillor of Salut Alba Vergés, now the councillor Argimon and, of course, the presidency. Yesterday, Councillor Argimon – he said repeatedly – compared, gave accounts, explained how it is evolving and the efforts being made by all the country's social health services. And, despite that, we are in the middle of the fifth wave; but not only in Catalonia. And what we can't do, obviously, is lower the guard. And the public officials – here too, obviously – we are the first to set an example all the time. And yesterday he also remembered his own advisor Argimon. Since the Republican Left Group, therefore, we have full confidence that the very honorable President Pere Aragonès, as he did before he was Vice President, will now give all the explanations that are needed. Every day, all members of the Government assume the responsibility, from the first moment forward, to deal with this pandemic, which is global, which is a pandemic that, as other companies and companies in the hemisphere have recalled, affects all aspects of life, that is hardly touching those people and sectors that already suffer from inequalities, and that need to face this pandemic strengthening our socio-economic structure, feel our society much more resilient to face what is to come later. We must therefore maintain this extreme vigilance. In this sense, from the Republican Left Group, all our politicians and representatives have always said this: first is life; life goes first. And, in this sense, also, continue to remember the need for all citizens to be involved with social and health workers, with the great professionals who are and continue to make efforts. They can't lower the guard. And all that we have representation or political responsibility to the government – and also not to the government – we have to do everything that you need while it lasts this time, while it lasts this pandemic, and also when it passes, to continue accompanying the citizenry and to be able to overcome what is going on and the consequences of everything that implies the global pandemic of the covid. Therefore, we will vote in favour and vote in favour of this appearance and, as always, at the side of the Government to bring our society forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.29.0	Well, then, after the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. Vote for this request for appearance. Do I ask for the word, Mrs. Romero? [[Pause.]] No, no, Ah, I was marking the vow. Oh, sure! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, all right. It's that I didn't know, and that I hadn't given the instruction yet... So the vote begins. The request for a hearing was approved with 133 votes in favour. Let's move on to the next point in the order of the day. [[Decree Law 16/2021 of 13 July of the approval of urgent measures for the ordering of the lottery game reserved for the Government of Catalonia]] [[203-00006/13]] The second item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 16/2021 of July 13, approving urgent measures for the ordering of the lottery game reserved for the Government of Catalonia. First of all, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jaume Giró, Economic and Historical Adviser, will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Tea, therefore, the words of the councillor, Mr. Jaume Giró. [[Pause.]] Looks like he's been gone for a while... okay, we've got the counselor here. So when you want, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.30.0	Thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, councillors, councillors, today I come to present the Decree Law 16/2021, of 13 July, approving urgent measures for the ordering of the lottery game reserved for the Government of Catalonia. This decree is the culmination of a project that began in the year 86 with the intention of launching a lottery system in Catalonia. This July, the Autonomous Entity of Gambling ceased to exist. For this reason, it is urgent and necessary to make the transformation of the EAJA into an anonymous society of one-person nature effective. Conversion into a single-person anonymity society is necessary to effectively enable it to manage the lotteries on behalf of the Generality, which eventually results in the EAJA per law. The reason for creating the new entity is to make effective the separation of the organ operator from the regulatory organ. A European country that operates an activity is the same as it regulates it. This is obvious and goes to any western country. In addition, European doctrine and case law are established. The current lottery legislation does not fit, because it is designed for the commercial entity, and now it is a commercial company. And that's why we're now adapting lottery rules to the new trading company. I want to make it clear that this transformation into a one-person, anonymous society will be by the mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia and, therefore, only the Parliament of Catalonia will be able to change it. In no case can it be privatized ever – never –, not only partially, without another law of the Parliament of Catalonia that so empowers. With this law decree, so we just want to sort out and establish our game-friendly system. And we want to do so with the will to simplify its management, after the transformation of the EAJA into a public one-hundred-per-cent company, such as Lotteries of Catalonia, or UAA, as well as adapting and modernizing the regulations of lotteries of the Government of Catalonia. I have equated the new standard scheme from the Catalan public lottery to the state, so as to guarantee a basic thing, but that is not complicating now, which is the equal status of conditions in the market. Lotteries of Catalonia, as a one-person anonymous company, will be a much more useful instrument. It will be, because it will facilitate and streamline the relationship with the 2,200 points of sale and will streamline the commercial lottery game system in our country. So, for example, with this UAA, we can contract new members of the commercial network and stop doing so through administrative authorities so far. The new company will not be able to give administrative authorities to the commercial network, but this relationship will have to be based on private contracts with new sales outlets. The persons who today are holders of valid authorizations are not to be seen for those affected, unless they or they themselves choose us contracts as the binding instrument. If it is, it will change. If not, they will follow the same economic conditions and the link they have now until their completion. These are your goals. Some objects, I insist, operative and functional, because we want Lotteries of Catalonia to work, and it works every couple of times better. I want to tell you that the Government of Catalonia believes in the Lotteries of Catalonia, as the group of citizens and citizens have believed, trusting our games a year ago, and with a significant amount of leap in the draws of the Grossa. The government and the economics council defend this project, and that's why we want to leave it straight, as in any other country in the world. And it is that this is a law more in the line of wanting to squeeze at the most our skills than not changing any substantial issue of the legal nature of lotteries. It is a law that regulates essential aspects of the public entrances of the Generalitat that derives from the commercialization of the lottery. Mirin, from the year 92 until today the Autonomous Entity of Games and Bets of the Generalitat has destined for social purposes almost 300_million euros. It is a remarkable – I think it is insufficient –, which has been intended to finance programs and care activities for large people, people with disabilities and the operation of childcare centres. Now this social commitment, this will, is fully reaffirmed with this decree law, that we pretend that we can guarantee the maximum social return of the benefits that are obtained for the commercialization of the lottery game reserved for the Generality. To this effect, I want to emphasize..., allows the adoption of transparency measures – transparency – related to the management of public tickets that are obtained from the commercialization of the lottery. That's why it creates the Lotteries Fund for Prosperity and Social Cohesion, and concretely, I insist a little more, the impossibility of social capital entry to Lotteries of Catalonia, SAU. In short, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, with this decree, we seek to seize all the potential that Lotteries in Catalonia have, are more efficient and competitive before other operators. They think that Lotteries de Catalunya represents only – only– the five-per-cent of lottery sales to Catalonia, before the seventy-per-cent of Lotteries and State Bets and the ONCE's disset_per_cent. We have, therefore, a long way to go, and in this legislature we want to make a leap forward. To get close to our competitors' figures, what do we have to do? So, to start with, match us in conditions of competitiveness with them, match our standard mark to yours and establish an organizational model and scheme equivalent to the state and management model of the National Lottery. We want to drive part of the responsibility for regulating the general aspects of the lottery game in the Department of Economics and History, the same way that the Minister, the Vice President of Economics, does at the level of the State. All the countries around us have public lotteries – all of them. In the State, communities have – all communities – full regulatory competence in the game, except in the online game and state-wide lottery. The communities are therefore competent to organise the lottery that they operate exclusively in their territory, but, tanmateix, only Catalonia manages a lottery of its own. In any case, Catalonia has the statutory competence to manage its own public and reserved games, as I say, to the own competence of the Generality. The fact that it is the only community that has decided to operate its own lottery demonstrates, once again, the firm and continued willingness to maximize our competitive environment. I'm just saying that, in the end, what we've done is try to spread and self-manage, in the best possible way, our competition in the field of lottery. We are not satisfied and trust fully in a model with a social return as powerful as that of Lotteries of Catalonia. And that's why we trust that this decree can be validated by this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.31.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, as we agreed on at the last Spokesman's Meeting, will be a maximum of five minutes per group. Now the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.32.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, Members, Members, we are in the validation of this decree which, in the end, compliments what has been started in the law of fiscal and financial measures of 2000. Article 127 already provides, as the adviser said a few minutes ago, for this conversion of the autonomous entity into anonymised society, to the effect that it complements this – and that it is already entering into the background of the question –..., this objective, which responds to a question, we understand, of opportunity and convenience, insofar as the separation between the manager and the regulator is always agreed to be differentiated, to the effects of avoiding any type of suspicion or any type of unwanted interaction between the two figures, between the two papers which are appropriate, I insist, that they appear or that they are perfectly different. At the same time, it is an adaptation to European legislation. Both the operation of the European Union and, in particular, the service directive establish as general criteria the freedom of establishment and the provision of services, and, in this sense, as the adviser also indicated, other countries: France, Regne Unit or, at the state level, Spain, 2010 has also become the autonomous entity of the State lottery management in this state lottery management company. Therefore, with this decree, it harmonizes the situation of lottery management, not only in this European standard mark, but also in the standard mark of reference at the level of Spain. The decree, in its structure, defines..., does not introduce substantially different elements, from the point of view of management, content, fate, resources, lottery tickets. In the different chapters in which it is regulated..., the regulation of the decree is developed, it refers to organization and management; there are no significant or significant alterations. Secondly, the management of public tickets is kept to social cohesion, which we therefore understand and share. And the third refers to everything that refers to the marketing network. To emphasize, as the adviser also stated, the fact that in transitory clauses it is defined, to the effects of legal guarantee, the maintenance of relations with the current commercial network, present, before the transformation of the nature of management into a commercial society, in the measure that all the administrative authorities of the current network maintain this relationship, carried that they want voluntarily to transform it. Therefore, I insist, we understand that, from the point of view, it is a decree that does not contemplate or wear mass, let us say it, difficulties, complexities or elements that may, when we hear, generate a criterion of opposition. I would not want to fail to make a reference, or that is passive, to the criteria of prevention of the risks involved in the game. We always understand that it is a priority to make reference to the prevention of the risks of the game, both from a social point of view and from a point of view of salvation. These questions will not change in this decree, but I do not want to leave, we do not want to stop referring to the importance of having them present whenever we talk about lottery. Finally, and to finish my intervention, as I said, in any case, the decree responds to the compliment of the Bill of Measures, it continues to what is already foreseen in the same, and it is a government action. The Government has the responsibility to compliment these measures provided for in this Act. In any case, and while I insist, it is a government action and, as I say, we do not see any elements that lead us to hold a controlling position, the voting position of our parliamentary group will be abstaining. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.33.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrés Bello has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.34.0	Good morning, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Councillors, Article 64 of the current autonomous statute of Catalonia states: "In the event of an extraordinary and urgent need, the Government may issue provisional legislative provisions in the form of a decree law. As we see, two factors must converge: that the need is extraordinary and that it is also urgent. The purpose of this decree law is to change the legal regime of the managing body of the lottery game exploited by the Generalitat. What is this extraordinary need? Neither is it explained in the statement of reasons of the decree law nor is it deduced from the text of the law itself. And what about urgency? It is intended to repeal and replace Law 5/1986, which has been in force for thirty-five years. Thirty - five years in force and today, on the morning of 29 July, is its repeal urgent? We believe that there is neither an extraordinary need nor an urgency. The Government of the Generalitat is using an improper legislative procedure that is unique and exclusive to its own political convenience. They have turned the exceptional into something routine, although unfortunately we are already getting used to it. This Government is stealing from Parliament one of its main functions, legislative power, defined as the capacity to draft and pass laws on matters in which it has competence. The Government of the Generalitat should have used the ordinary legislative procedure and processed this proposal as a draft law. This could have been done by discussing the content of the rules to be drawn up, listening to organisations, social groups and experts on the subject, comparing ideas from different political groups and voting with all the information needed to make the best decision. On the other hand, this Government wants us to agree to a rule that they have drawn up and without having had the opportunity to discuss at parliamentary level. We believe that this is a mockery of this Parliament and of the Catalan citizens it represents. It is an act of banana republics or of yellow republics in both cases, by the way. In an ordinary procedure of the law, we would have liked to ask whether it is an essential function of the Generalitat de Catalunya to devote itself to the organization of lots. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we believe not, regardless of the legal form through which it is managed. Nor should the debate on the legal consequences of the conversion of the Autonomous Entity of Games and Bets of the Generalitat into a one-person anonymous society have been stolen from this Parliament. This is a very important change that could be interpreted as a flight from administrative law and from the controls to which the entities subject to that branch of law are subject. And this is especially important in the entities that, like the case we are dealing with, handle very large amounts of money. Given the impact this new law will have on contracts with third parties, it would also have been important to have heard their views and proposals at the hearing stage. For all the above, from the VOX Parliamentary Group we will vote against the validation of this decree law, because it cannot be legislated by coups of decree law. The Generalitat should not devote itself to drawing lots, but to solving the important problems of Catalans. The Councillor has already illustrated to us that we are the only autonomous community that exploits lotteries. For something it will be. For something it will be, Mr. Counsellor – for something it will be. And, of course, we are against the creation of new chiringuitos as proposed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.35.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.36.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. It presents this decree as a technical question, as the process of culminating the transformation of the EAJA into a one-person autonomous society. A transformation in which our parliamentary group already in 2017, when the Government intended to throw it away, was opposed; that 2020, when it threw it away with the approval of the assumptions, was opposed. And we could say, "Well, it's a technical issue, it's the culmination of this process that's already approved, and so I need to validate the decree. But for us there is a question of funds. There is a question of funds that you have to see with the game and bets them. The socialist deputy argued that in this decree the law did not alter everything you have to see with prevention in games and bets. And we understand that this is one of the problems, that when we talk about games and bets we must always accompany measures in relation to ludopathy and the implications that it has both at the social, economic level, as well as of salvation to respect. Because gambling, gambling or gambling, is an oci activity that is legitimate in many countries and that many people use; and yet, there are some, every couple more, who experience damage as a result of gambling. These damages, which may, as I said, be of an economic, social or physical and mental nature, do not only affect the individual in question, the person who plays, but also affect the family, the community and, ultimately, the whole society. In fact, it is estimated that for each person with gambling problems, approximately six people in their most direct environment are affected. It's been a while since gambling and gambling-related damages have been identified as a public health problem, and we understand that here there is a great effort on the part of the administrations, a great task to address this public health problem. In fact, the public health perspective has allowed us to hear the damage related to the game, beyond the negative consequences associated with players classified as problematic or disruptive. And, therefore, for us, it is necessary that the Public Administration place more focus on public health than on obtaining tickets through an activity that, by more legitimate than following many countries of the world and which, by more than being relegated to the competition mark, is relegated to the European legislative mark, therefore, has these consequences. And that's why we, in the same way that, as I said before, 2017 we positioned ourselves against the transformation into SAU; that 2020 we positioned ourselves against it; today we will not support this decree. We understand that any failure by the Public Administration to regulate the game and the bets must not be in which the Public Administration competes with the companies that make use of..., the gambling and betting companies, but must be at the expense of these companies and must be to regulate even more and tend to the disappearance of a chess and a problem that each time affects more people and that has very direct impacts on society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.37.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.38.0	Well, good morning to all of you. They won't vote. We will not vote for this decree. We already communicated it to the counselor. We will not vote for it... we know it was an additional arrangement in the framework of the presuppostari debate, but we understand that there is no motius at these times... or we do not like the motius that is exposed to it, right? Obviously, what we don't want is to open the debate about whether the lottery is a voluntary regression tax or a random contract between the individual and the State. No, I do not want to make this debate, even though I am aware that this debate exists because it supports, unfortunately, with a false illusion of many people before the dissatisfaction that generates the existence of material needs not satisfied for the State, for the government, for the public administration itself, that it should satisfy these vital needs of people to prevent them from generating false illusions that make them embrace that the game can save them to what does not save them from the Administration. But I don't want to get into this debate. But why do you expect us to make a one-man, one-man, commercial society, in short? The argument that lies with us is clear: more flexibility; more flexibility to contract staff, to contract benefits and services, more flexibility at the time of marketing, more flexibility at the time of increasing premiums. Well, things that the EAJA has done before, right? , or so on, the autonomous entity. Well, all right. To separate the operator from the regulator. Nor do we see that there is an excessive need. Is that a bust? Yeah. We'll talk about it, whether it's a bust or not. But the problem is that we're planning to make a business company because it's more competitive on the playing field. Do we want to be more competitive on the playground? I believe that precisely what is not clear is whether we want to be more competitive in the field of the game or, precisely, we want the game not to be that false illusion where people have to take it. And, therefore, we should do other policies that release the people who can get into these ludopathy problems to solve these false social mirages that are sometimes generated, right? But, in the band of this, what is not clear to us in the decree that is laid down..., which are the controls on the determination of the commercial network. It is unclear to us which controls will be carried out. So far the EAJA has done a few things, but it is not clear in the decree on this subject. It is not clear whether or not resources were used, in the prevention of the game, or in which direction. It is not clear whether or not it will limit advertising to promote that people play the lottery. These are things that are not clear to us and therefore we understand that we cannot validate this decree. Because, plus, we understand that possibly what it would be like to start making numbers of what the lottery represents in Catalonia. The adviser said: it represents the five-per-cent of the global– agreed–; it represents 300_million euros since 1986– thirty-five years, just over – not above nor 10_million euros per year. But don't just tell me how we have enough of a foundation of prosperity and social cohesion, tell me how much we've spent to build that foundation. Because if we've got 300_million euros in thirty-five years, how much have we spent on advertising campaigns and with all the maintenance of a functioning structure? Possibly the numbers would not finish us square and possibly economically it would not be justified to maintain, say, a structure that represents the zinc_per_cent of the lotteries in Catalonia for an economic result to escape like this, right? Because, in the last instance, what is the propaganda and the dissemination of the game we end up paying for among all, and the opportunity to encourage the game with more prizes has not just pleased us. And one last thing: we don't like that we feel that we have to do this because that's what Europe is doing, that's how Europe is managed. Because Europe is also a fan of many things. In Europe, for example, it resigns when a political leader publicly displays himself by skipping public standards of behaviour. In Europe we may not have this lotteries decree as it is, but we would have Mr Puignero resign after the scandalous situation he demonstrated the other day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.39.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Ignacio Martín has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.40.0	Well, thank you, President. He will allow me, after his umpteenth exhibition of absolutism and authoritarianism in this chamber, to read article 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. 'Article 39. Rules. The functions of the Presidency of Parliament. The President of Parliament holds the representation of the Chamber – the representation of the Chamber; therefore, of all the Members of this Chamber and of all the citizens of Catalonia – "and establishes and maintains the order of the discussions and conducts the debates impartially. If you, Madam President, believe that what you have done today, making a suffamation for the recently pardoned leaders or politicians, condemned for crimes as serious as the misappropriation of public funds and sedition..., do you think it is normal to make that suffamation, that proclamation for those politicians since your status as Speaker of the Parliament? To me to be explained. It is clear that you stand up as a sort of Sun Queen, a parliamentary absolutist, with a claim that others simply have to tolerate, endure the applause of your bench – very legitimate, on the other hand. But, I insist, you go beyond your functions as President of this Parliament, which is clearly not arrogated by the role of making patriotic and counter-democratic sufflas, contrary to the legal order, when yesterday, in addition, on the Board of Spokespersons to which you alluded, precisely the separatist groups, very legitimately, presented a proposal for an institutional declaration that did not obtain the support of all political forces and therefore could not be an institutional declaration. But, as it could not be, you have decided today that you make your own institutional statement by taking precedence over your status as president of this chamber. And so I want it to be recorded that when you say, moreover, in your own speech, that in this Parliament you can talk about everything..., you can talk about everything you say, obviously, because, of the other thing, you decide whether or not you talk about certain things. That said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.41.0	Mr. Martín Blanco... I stopped him before I gave him the indication that I'm going to do it, because I'm calling the question. I've let you do what you don't want to do. He's spent two minutes of his time. Article 88 is that of the call to consistency of the debate and to which it refers to the point of the order of the day, which you have not done. I would remind you of Rule 169(4), for which there are statements by the President. Therefore, continue, please, to the point of the order of the day that corresponds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.42.0	President's statement that there's some kind of threat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.43.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, please, I've made a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.44.0	No, Madam President, what you can't do is blow...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.45.0	Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.46.0	...from his condition as Speaker of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.47.0	...I made a call to order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.48.0	Sounds good to me, Madam President, but you can't do...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.49.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I have told you the articles of the Rules...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.50.0	...patriotic proclamations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.51.0	... for whom, please, I make a call to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.52.0	Sounds good to me, perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.53.0	Continue with the order of the day point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.54.0	Madam President, the day you do your jobs as you call it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.55.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, what part of the call to order do you not understand? Because if I call him back to order, I'll take the word off him, and he can't even finish this point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.56.0	And you'll have to give me five minutes at the end of the debate to explain...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.57.0	Exactly. I made a call to him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.58.0	...but go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.59.0	...to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.60.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.61.0	You have spent three minutes of your time – you have – making a statement that does not correspond. Therefore, they ask him to return to the order of the day and to the point in question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.62.0	Madam President, many digressions in this Faristol are growing, and everyone has made allusions to the questions he has considered appropriate. And, therefore, you are trying, once more, to coerce my freedom as a Member, as a Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.63.0	Mr Martín Blanco, I do not question your freedom; I am calling you to the coherence of the debate under Rule 88. I'm back to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.64.0	All right, let's get back to it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.65.0	I started counting his time from the moment I warned him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.66.0	Let's get back to the question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.67.0	At this time available two minutes and a half, it returns to the order of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.68.0	Perfect. With the blessing that one day you will exercise the functions of your charge honestly and impartially and not as an authentic Sun Queen, which is what you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.69.0	Miri, Mr. Martín Blanco, I've made the third call to order. You don't have the word. Let's move on to the next point. [[Applauds the pauses.]] Next, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.70.0	Good morning; good morning to everyone. Thank you very much, President. I'll do some escó, 'cause I'll be short. I do not want to enter the grounds of the law decree; I will remain in the form, which is sufficient to justify our vote against this law decree. You tell us that you consider that it is necessary and urgent to deal with these changes, some substantial changes as decreed by law. So I don't share these criteria, and we tell them we don't. A year ago I knew that they had to complete the replacement of the Autonomous Entity of Games and Bets of the Generality for the new society; they have not done so. They'll tell us there's been autonomous elections between you and me. I can hardly tell them: the Parliament has dissolved... not two months. They had time to have done it; they could have done it as the bill for the extraordinary emergency procedure; they could have done it for the unique reading procedure. But you opt for processing for a law that limits the powers of intervention of this Parliament and of the groups that conform, and also, what is harder, the participation of the sector, affected by some changes and a new regulation with some substantial changes. Therefore, we understand that this has to be done as a draft law where there can really be a debate. And, in this respect, our vote will be denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.71.0	Thank you very much. And then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.72.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies. In the first place, let's also, even though it's a "sufflama," as Mr. Martin Blanco says, defend the right to speak in a parliament, eh? And, therefore, I think that Parliament is going to talk about it, and we can talk about everything that supports citizenship, as the President of this Parliament referred to it. We talk about lotteries – we talk about lotteries. Therefore, it has already been explained here enough: this is the beginning, therefore, of a process of adaptation to European legislation, to the directive on European services, of an institution, the autonomous entity, which comes from the year 1986, and, therefore, 2021 it is up to it to adapt. And the way to adapt is similar to what other European countries have done – even advanced democracies like the Spanish State, which did it in 2010-2011, huh? , and the rest of the countries, as has already been said, France, Regne Unit, Germany, Italia the Nordic countries –: adapt your player to a model of transparency and regulation, competitiveness and competence, and distinguishing who regulates and who orders over who operates, which is the best model of transparency. Therefore, in this sense we see a logic: in one stage, an autonomous entity, as it was until now, adapt it to an anonymous society because it can operate equally competitively on the European market. Second place, emergency. The urgency is given because, as has already been said, after the work that the Government has done, with elections for the middle of 2020 until today, this new one starts operating on July 1st and, therefore, from here it sees the urgency, with this decree law, therefore, that it can start operating without interrupting the activity of the games and bets that it manages, that until now it manages the autonomous entity and that it is now managing Lotteries of Catalonia, Company Anonima Unipersonal. There has also obviously been talk of ludopathy and, obviously, we also have to make this reflection: playing this lesson cannot be synonymous, therefore, with falling into the ills that come from these games. And, therefore, from here we also insist and ask, and we are aware, that when it is propaganda, when it is marketing action or, even so, the Department of Health and Welfare and Family..., we aim to be sensitive with some maladies that they have to deal with this fact of addiction to the game, but that in fact they would not cease to exist because of the fact that we do not have Lotteries of Catalonia, because there is all another offer and a fan at European and state level, also, of games, right? Therefore, this sensitivity that we must have for these diseases does not come to pass that, as the State in growth and creation, we do not have a lottery as many other countries of Europe and other countries of the world have. So, in this sense... we don't see, in this sense, a great contradiction, do we? In any case, yes, it is important, as we say..., I believe that the importance of this decree is this: to make a functioning _framework, adapted to the community service directive, and that it is as transparent as possible for citizens and for their control, in this sense, of entrances and expenses and, therefore, that their organizational structure is as transparent as possible. The decree also provides, as has already been said, for certain guarantees of relations with the traders that already existed so far, so as to give them continuity and a whole framework of regulation of the new modalities, with the new points of commercialization that can be generated from this moment. Also to highlight, also, important – the Councillor has already said – the impossibility that there may be in this anonymous society the entry of private capital, unless the law in its parliament is changed, that this is not the will. And then, also, another important issue, which is to ensure, as has been done so far, that tickets are intended, therefore, for the purposes of prosperity and social cohesion in our country, which is very important, because in other lottery offers there, their benefits do not come to our country; and these do come directly, entirely in the departments of our Government and our country. This is, I think, the importance and therefore also the interest of the Government to which we give support, that in the place of a five-per-cent against a five-per-cent norm we can come, therefore, to this, to generate that the commercial scope of this lottery field in our country remains in participation, in co-efficient participation higher and, therefore, with more entrances that have social benefits and prosperity for the citizenship of our country. So, in this sense, we agree. And, finally, I think that already..., just highlight that it is expected that the play department will approve the new regulation that can develop the aspects of this new anonymous society that from now on will manage the game and bets of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.73.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Josep Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.74.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, as has already been seen in the different interventions of the debate of today's debate of two debates at the same time. On the one hand, these technical aspects derive from the content of the decree that we have discussed today and that we pose to..., subject to validation. And, on the other hand, the two planned government agreements, one from June past and the other from June of the previous year, which worked and prepared the entire process of constitution and transformation of the old EAJA into the current anonymous company Lotteries of Catalonia. In any case, I will make some more comments on this second part, which seems to me to be the most interesting from the political perspective. The counselor has made many presentations, many acclaims about the issue, and other members who have spoken; I, in any case, have some considerations. In the first place, we share some of the reflections that have been made here, especially the preamble made by the Gallego deputy about..., some considerations of an ethical character, of a philosophical character about what the game is about. He refers that the game is a response or an imposition to social dissatisfaction. Dr. Martorell refers to it as an imposition on the statistical disconnection. We also share some reflections that made the company, the deputy of the CUP. Now, in any case, the game exists, it's a reality that is regulated and that forms part of our society and that we are convinced that it's better that it's regulated, driven and managed for public administration than in private hands. The advisor makes reference: the EAJA represents the five_per_cent of the game in Catalonia. Because we have a bit of a reference, Lotteries of the State has an invoice of 9,250_million euros; the EAJA 70_million euros. Therefore, we are ahead of a small project that pretends to be a social 100_per_cent offer, an offer with public responsibility, taking, obviously, as before, the contradictions of the game. Second of all, this transformation into anonymised society has come to an end, as it has been shown, because the autonomous entity is an anachronism. It is an entity of thirty-five years ago; it is a legal figure of thirty-five years ago, which now does not respond to the needs of a flexible world, to the need to be able to respond quickly to the change that is being produced to today's society. Why give us an idea: any modification, any small modification, any figure of the game that manages the EAJA, that managed the EAJA, requires a decree. And that, obviously, is anything less agile. In any case, the motivator, as explained above, is this essential separation between regulation and operation in any sector and also a sector as sensitive as the game. The Court of Justice of the European Union has given rise to clear, decisive case law. And, therefore, it is not a discretionary element to do so or not, but it is an obligation that we do and that we apply it now, once and for all, as the rest of the European countries have done and as it did in 2011, the Spanish State, which transformed the Lotteries and State Bets, transformed it into an SA, separating its regulator, the General Board of the Game, from the operator, which is SELAE. On the other hand, other more concrete considerations. One of the concerns we've always had is that in this transformation the workers didn't lose their fillet. Today, until their transformation, they were workers of a working nature, and, in this sense, they have made sure that there is no loss of rights on the part of the workers of the entity. For another band, the law decree that today stands out of the table guarantees that the new company is a public cent_per_cent and that it cannot incorporate private capital, unless this Parliament authorizes it. And, secondly, the decree also reinforces what we have been doing for thirty-five years, which is that all its benefits are destined for social purposes. Mr. Gallego makes reference... The 285_million euros is the benefit. This accounts for all marketing expenses. Thus, of the 70_million that each year..., have about 7_million benefits, that many years ago are destined for social ends. In summary, today Lotteries of Catalonia adapts to the legal framework in force. Secondly, the flexibility that the sector needs is relaxed. In the third place, let's reinforce the compromise that it's a one-hundred_per_cent public entity. And in the final term, we guarantee and reinforce the idea that we are ahead of a return of one hundred to the common good. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.75.0	Well, so, now the debate is over, let's proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and that the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us then proceed to the vote of the Decree Law 16/2021. The vote begins. The decree was ratified with 65 votes in favour, 37 votes against and 32 abstentions. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law decree has been validated, I ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group to process this law decree as draft law. Yes; ma'am Reguant, ma'am Parera, ma'am Martín Blanco. Therefore, in agreement with the petitions put forward by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Union, the Joint Group and the Citizens' Group, we are now voting on whether this decree should be dealt with as a draft law. The vote begins. The vote was 37 votes in favour, 64 against and 33 abstentions. Given, therefore, the result of the vote and in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules, the law decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as draft law. [[Decree-Law No 17/2021 of 20 July, by which extraordinary measures are taken to limit dam density]] [[203-00007/13]] Let's move on to the third item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 17/2021 of 20 July, for which extraordinary measures of limitation to dam density are taken. In the first place, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules, will intervene the lady Teresa Jordan, councillor of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, to expose the reasons for which it has been promulgated this decree law. You've got the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.76.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Members, Members, today we are also here to debate and approve, if they go out and so consider, the validation of the Decree of 17/2021 of 20 July, for which extraordinary measures are taken to limit the density of ramedera, or what is the same or otherwise, today we are debating the limitation of four years more of the growth of the barns to areas with more concentration of cattle, which on Tuesday passed, precisely, approved by the Government. So, what this decree proposes is nothing new, but, as you know, what it does is..., or what it proposes is to extend those measures already in force since the summer of 2019. That is to say, it prolongs for four years this limitation to install new barns, or not only to install new barns, but also to extend those existing ones to the areas of the country that gather, basically, two conditions. These two conditions are a lot of trouble, huh? For one band, those territories that already have a large number of exploitations, and for another, those that have contaminated needles for nitrates that obviously originate from purins. We are talking, therefore, about, in concrete terms, sixty-eight municipalities with a large number of farms and with water contaminated by nitrates, as we say, from these purins. The object of the department that I have the honor to encapsulate, the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda, is clear, huh? : we want to reverse, as it cannot be otherwise..., not only do we want, but we will reverse the excessive presence of nitrates to the needles of these more vulnerable areas. The limitation, as we say, in effect since July 2019, thanks to Decree 153/2019, was initially planned for a period, i.e., only two years. Now, when the moratorium was about to end, we analyzed the needles and it became clear that this period was insufficient. There wasn't enough. Certainly – and this is also true, and we have to say – the trend has been corrected, but the excess of nutrients, mainly the excess of nitrates, is still a reality, and therefore we need to widen this limitation. In sixty-eight municipalities across the country, we find that we have more purins than we have to adobar. It is so simple: farms that generate more nitrates than the earth can absorb as a natural fertilizer for agriculture. We want to avoid, therefore, the excess of purins. That is to say, the existing barns can manage the discharges in a much more efficient way and, at the same time, that these also adopt treatment systems and value these natural fertilizers without increasing the pressure to manage for an increase in the number of animals that grow in these areas. We have been reducing the surplus – this too I want to stop manifesting – but in any case we need more time – more time – to get to embrace this objective. Mirin, in our country, in Catalonia, there are approximately 8_million pigs, 700,000 cow heads and 38_million aus that generate every year some 17_million_tons of purins– 17_million_tons of purins– and 4,4_million_tons of fems and chickens. That's the reality. Ramadere discharges – this is also a reality – bring nutrients; they bring nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, organic matter, in short. All this matter, sense of doubt, improves the physical qualities, the chemical qualities as well as the biologic qualities of our solos, but, yes, applied in the measure that falls, not in an excessive proportion; that is, in obviously reasonable quantities. Because when there are reasonable quantities, we talk about the adoption of all life; in excess, of course, we talk about a problem. The nitrates from the purins become contaminated when it is in excess and when its presence is greater than that which the cults can absorb. We are also aware of the ill-being of the aquifers in our country's internal basins, and this is one of the measures that we can take. Mirin, from the year 1998, from the Catalan Agency of Water, looks at the evolution of the quality of water and nitrates to the underground and surface waters, measuring more than five hundred control points. And the truth is that the evolution of contamination has not only not been resolved – and we have to say: it has not only not resolved – but it has taken hold and has done so progressively. In fact, more than forty per cent of the total surface area of our country is declared vulnerable to contamination by agricultural nitrates. And the department and the sector, sense of doubt, I assure you they're doing their dues. But it's also obvious that we need a little more time. Faced with this reality, what we need – time band – and fortunately we find it – are also barns compromised with environmental management. And it's that we need to get in the way, and we need to also, uh, have a sense of doubt, row everyone and everyone in the same direction if we want to move forward and if we want to – that's the case – obviously get better. It is essential to recognize also the work of our branches and branches, and also their firm commitment to the reversal of the current situation. Therefore, it is key to put emphasis on this measure, which is not about a dialy process – it is also worth saying; if not, it would have been very complicated – with the sector, which is not the first interested in solving the problem. These sixty-eight municipalities included in the Government's limitation are about 1.2 percent of the river load index– 1.2 percent–, calculated as this index, according to the total production of nitrogen kilograms that produce livestock heads in relation to the municipal agricultural area to be absorbed. It is worth saying that at these sixty-eight municipalities at these times there are already one hundred and five farms that have a treatment system. This is a great advance, it's extremely important; there are no more than one hundred_five that have a treatment system, which supposes the management of thirty-four_per_cent at these times– thirty-four_per_cent– of the excess purins. I mean, that's the way. That, yes, that's the solution, but we also need more time. And finally, let me also make it clear that what we are debating today is part of a global strategy, a strategy of the circular bioeconomy, I do not discover much. From this department we promote the valorization of discharges as resources, as resources within a circular bioeconomy scheme that is based on the fundamental promotion of composting and also on organic fertilisation of excellence. To value this resource; in short, to ensure the quality of soils and other groundwaters with a proper management of these leftovers in order to achieve, as we say, a fertility that is adjusted to the needs of the crops and, at the same time, which is guaranteed – important – the viability and sustainability of the agricultural farms and branches and of the meat sector of our country. It is to say, to promote branched discards as a resource – I return – that, correctly applied, can maintain or even improve the quality of agricultural soils, and therefore substantially increase the potential for the production of implanted crops. And, before all this has been said, they ask, therefore, for a favourable vote so that they can validate this decree. We have – I think I have explained myself in this sense – a very clear objective, which is to reverse the excessive presence of nitrates to the needles, but we need – here – a little more time to accomplish it. And this decree, Decree 17/2021, is one of the tools – not the only one, but one of the tools – that can help us. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.77.0	The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. And this comeback, as we agreed at the next Spokesman's Meeting, will be a maximum of five minutes per group. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.78.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs and MPs... The decree that today brings us to ratification, for which extraordinary measures are taken of the stocking density, we can say that it raises serious doubts about its effectiveness. And why are we giving them that? So that's why this decree is an extension of what was approved in 2019, as you well said, and that ended its validity on July 25th. Basically, the decree was to establish restrictions on the possibility of new installations of some branching activities or expansion of existing ones in areas considered vulnerable to the contamination of nitrate needles. But the same decree that we are being given today tells us in its explanatory statement that, in the two years of its existence – therefore, the application of these restrictive measures – the contamination of needles to vulnerable areas has not remedied. And not only that, but they add forty-five more municipalities to vulnerable areas. So we have a problem. Therefore, a decree, a regulation, was drafted and approved in 2019 that has not given its fruit. In fact, the decree that they bring to us justifies this fact explaining that the projects of new installations or enlargements that were going on in 2019, when the decree came into force, did not stop, and therefore ended up materializing. This meant that the flood load on vulnerable areas did not fall in these two years, and that is why this decree is approved, in order to extend these restrictive measures. Now, what comes up, what is causing us doubts, is whether the application of these measures for four more years will suffice. Can we conclude without any doubt that there will be no other nitrate contamination fronts in these vulnerable areas that come from the branching activity? Or what measure on the sector will be sufficient? So the truth is, we don't know if we can say it with total roundness. In fact, the European directives which the same decree relates to us in the explanatory statement state that, if the measures taken by the states to reduce the contamination are not sufficient, additional or reinforced measures may be taken. And, look, we totally agree. What we have not just seen is that these measures are only aimed at restrictions on the branching sector of our country. And I think that if we have all convinced ourselves that we have to be on the side of this country's agricultural sector, that farmers and farmers can earn a decent living with their work, because that's the best way, for sure, because it's the farm, and because people don't lose people. And it's clear that we're going to have to control the ramadere discharges. And it is clear that if there is someone who does not do well there must be sanctions, there must be inspections and strict compliance with the standards. But we also have to make it clear that the vast majority of the branches have done their dues in accordance with the demands they are demanding on their farms. The vast majority are doing well, and we believe that this needs to be recognized and valued. We need to make the activity compatible with environmental quality. They are not contradictory, they are fully compatible. And only the Government has much to say, and not just regulating restrictions on the stocking activity, but laying down tools to accompany the rowers in the proper management of their holdings. We say this in the past Ple: research, research and development are important in the agricultural sector, because in the same way, for example, biogas plants have been put into operation, which allow for the generation of energy from waste, we can find other technologies that allow us to remove waste safely and without environmental impact. In short, we believe that you have followed the easiest path, that of prohibition, that of restriction, and we hope, for the sake of the sector and the hand of the sector, that you will seek other more constructive paths. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.79.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr Antonio Ramón López has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.80.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, I want to begin by explaining to you a story of my friend Angel. Like so many farmers in Lérida, he invested his savings in a pig farm, and, when the time comes to make the generational relief, his son does not want to continue with the family business, because he sees all the difficulties and suffering of his father to keep the business. And this is due to the restrictive policies towards the livestock sector that the Government has been implementing over the past decade. Do you know how many angels there are in Catalonia? : 18,795 livestock farms, according to data from the Idescat. Livestock is the backbone on which the process of modernization of the agricultural sector in Catalonia is based. It is clear that there is a problem with nitrate pollution from agricultural sources. And it is also true that we have to face it, but not sinking our livestock more and more and putting the environmental hysteria of this government ahead of us. As we always say, the environment and the economy cannot be confronted; if we want this to work, they always have to go hand in hand. From VOX we think that its decree law has to do with the obsession of some political parties to put ecology above all else. The content of the Decree Law does not take into account social sustainability, economic or environmental sustainability. In the 2019 decree they were wrong, as reflected in the decree itself. After two years of action, the effectiveness of imposing these limitations has not been demonstrated, and they are now one for four years. What if it goes wrong? Well, if it goes wrong, they definitely kill the sector. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't kill flies with cannons. It is necessary to solve the problems that farmers may have. That is, without this going against the most elementary purpose of any business: to grow. Should we wait to have no shepherds, to consume laboratory meat, to be aware of what livestock brings to us? We are not going to participate in decisions that do not benefit farmers, and less that they condemn the sector to disappear. Is it not that you, as friends of the 2030 agenda, actually obey projects such as Bill Gates, which bet on artificial meat, harming our livestock? As we have said before, the solution is not to limit, it has already been demonstrated during these two years; the solution is to take comprehensive measures, as has been done in other regions of Spain. On the other hand, I cannot let go of the legislative technique of action of the Government, who has issued the decree law as a form of government. VOX will vote against the validation of Decree Law 17/2021 of 20 July, and I invite all parliamentary groups who really want to make policies in defense and protection of our primary sector, and in particular the farmer, to vote against this decree. Our livestock sector is too important to put an end to it. And from here I want to take advantage of it to tell them they're not alone. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, don't be cynical. They want to put an end to our livestock sector, but then they'll have a good chop. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.81.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of the deputy Mr Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.82.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lopez, if you want, one day we go to Mr. Angel and we explain European directives, we explain to him the laws and standards of the Spanish State and we also explain to him that all this is needed, too, to protect him, to protect him as the small farm that is left before the big macro-grans that want to go out. I believe that it will help you to understand that these decrees serve to protect this small, familiar, land-scenery, which is precisely its own. And I also think it's very recommendable that we recommend it to the Lord Angel who is a trade union; because, if he is a union, whatever he does, this struggle that he does individually, he will do it collectively and will have more strength. So, I'm in your mood to, when you want, go see Mr. Angel and explain to him a little bit all that you've swept away, right? : Bill Gates, "Txuletons, all this... [[Some applause.]] Let's explain a little and land a little. [[applause]] which means the defense of the small and medium-sized ramaderia, which is what we defend, against the macrogranges. Very briefly – be very brief – say, in advance, that in our electoral program we bring the promotion of a moratorium to nine intensive integrated pig barns, as well as promoting extensive herding and silvopasturing as a tool for forest management and fire prevention. Therefore, the decree that we are bringing here today, the decree of 17/2021, for which these extraordinary measures of limitation in ramed density are adopted, although we do not get where we want, goes in this sense. Sounds good to us, the moratorium that is proposed. We would, however, be pleased if the feeling given to it was also to curb the macro-exploitations and cumulation processes that some enlargements involve throughout the territory, beyond certain municipalities or vulnerable areas, in the band, obviously, of the process of transformation that the camp needs towards a more sustainable agro-ecological model. And let me make it clear: this moratorium and above all our proposals are not an attack on the storehouse. They are not; they are years on the contrary: they are to defend the agricultural family farms that are reared in the territory before the large industrial farms that take up territorial basis for their plans to manage purins, to make expansions and new barns. This decree makes it possible for existing agricultural family farms in vulnerable areas to maintain the territorial base at which they have so far been able to continue to manage discharges properly, and limits soil speculation. And we also defended this decree, of course, because in municipalities with an obvious overburden of water the effect on the quality of water by contamination of nitrates from waste water is more than obvious, and this basic resource – water – cannot be compromised. We will vote in favour of this decree and continue to work to shield basic resources as water against unsustainable models for decline and in defense of agriculture and land-based waste. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.83.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.84.0	Thank you very much, President. It will advise... If this study has summer universities, as they organize various political formations, and in some of them there is a political communication seminar, it would be good if you warned that the visits on « txuletons are already made and they are all quite painful, or continue... [[relays]] There's no scratching, and that the rhetorical figure of this "I have a friend named Angel who told me that......, that's what everyone did, too; everyone knows they're invented friends. It's all right. Listen, we can discuss the questions in another way. [[Rialles and some applause.]] If you put him in the formations, we'll thank him for all the parliamentary debates. [[The timer laughs.]] See, purin management is an environmental problem of soil and atmospheric contamination. The atmospheric contamination by ammonia in Catalonia has doubled in the past six years, and it is a problem of contamination and it is a problem of public salvation. And the contamination of nitrate soil affects almost half of the groundwaters in our country and half of the aquifers in our country. And why is that happening to us? Because we have a model to gather where there are elements of intensive exploitation that obviously generate a lot of waste from purins in very little space and that can be managed better. Because there is a lack of conversion in the industry, which we sometimes comment a little, but... the agri-food industry, this year we are talking so much about European foundations and helping conversion, is also an industry to which we can give support to convert. In our opinion, because there is also a lack of circuits that delimit environmental responsibility and that legislate on the principle that pollutes pay, and that, therefore, one has to be responsible for its residues along its entire life cycle. Because, if not, we always have the same mantra: the agri-food sector is 3.6_percent of gross domestic product, and anything that puts us at risk. And it's... no, no, precisely because they're 3.6_percent of the gross domestic product and we can't afford the daltaix we're supposed to lose this sector, we need to take it seriously. I'm not saying: "You're right, you're right, you're doing what you want, it's not happening here, the Council of Europe will come and we won't listen to it..."; "I'm saying take it seriously, you want to analyze the challenges it has, also in environmental and public health matters, and assume that plans for conversion will fall to the medium and long term. And that for us means various things. U: a debate will be held on the pig cabin in our country. We have – the councillor has said – 8 million pigs in our country, and, moreover, distributed very unevenly – there are territories where there are pigs for each inhabitant, there are not many others – and there is a serious and honest debate about this. Secondly, we have a debate on what model of food production we want to enhance in our country. The company of the CUP has already commented: the system of macrogranges is a problem for the small and medium producers as well as for the health and the environment, and therefore we need to stimulate other forms of food production. And the necessary transformation of the sector, at least on three fronts that we have on the table: the environmental challenge – which I have already commented on –, the management of scarce resources – on which we debate a little, but we already have areas in Catalonia where the management of water is the management of a scant recourse between the inhabitants of certain areas and the intensive ramadere farms –, and also a problem of foundations that we have on the table is how this transformation is made on municipalities that suffer from depopulation and that suffer from crises in their own economic model, which is what it maintains that there is no continued rural exodus in our country. We are in favour of the moratorium. We're concerned that it didn't work out, and I think this should also help us take notes and think of decontamination plans a little more ambitious. And lastly, we have proposed a ple, together with the Popular Unity Application, on food – it will surely be late – and we believe that one of the elements to which we have to pay attention is precisely how we manage certain leftovers. And for us it is essential that we begin to think about what I said before: the responsibility of the producer, who generates residues, and, therefore, who is responsible throughout the life cycle for these residues; which residue management systems we consider to be more efficient; which model of food production we want, and how we build more ambitious decontamination plans than they do not make us extend, to see if one day the waters of Catalonia are decontaminated. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.85.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.86.0	President, councillor, deputies, deputies... Mr. Ferro, you were right. It is true that sometimes in summer schools too we should surely teach ourselves to give some relevancy to some issues that seem not to be important, as this, the day we are in July, at the end of July... And maybe in this line we should try harder, too, the political parties, right? , on time to communicate. Pretty much everything's been said. We believe that the European directives which were laid down at the beginnings of the 1990s and 2000, in fact, and then the need to determine the areas of vulnerability to the territories, the vulnerable municipalities, which would have to deal precisely with the contamination caused by agricultural nitrates..., therefore, put on the market a whole series of programmes that the Generalitaty has had to implement over the last few years before the growth of the branches that we have in Catalonia. Here it is true that there is an important counterposition between, on the one hand, entrepreneurship, the entrepreneurship of many Catalans living in the countryside – we do not deceive ourselves, because most of these areas are not in the metropolitan area, precisely, but they are far from this..., not so far, but very far from this, and I will now also talk about this –..., and I believe that this is not to be countered..., or that this is to be taken into account and, precisely, the entrepreneurship and, therefore, the concept, so to speak, environmental and what often implies an excess of the lack of treatment of these residents for society, and, in this case, for the citizens. We remember that the Generalitat managed the entire inland river basin of Catalonia. It has the competence of its management, and therefore we believe that we have to be responsible, as it went. And in this case, therefore, it must be said that action must be taken, and that a whole series of provisions must be made that can maintain this relationship between entrepreneurship and environmental care. But it's also true..., and I think that..., it was also said that the 2019 program..., Decree 153 of 2019, which determined, in fact, the concept of this load index..., I think that the will was good, but for us, therefore, everything that has been done – the territorial identification of the municipalities where there is this problem – did not work because it can be detailed..., the councilwoman said that the trend is changing, but we don't see it – that is true. We think that at least I feel insufficient, especially because we have a problem – and this is one of the issues I wanted to comment on –... I think we have a problem of lack, first of all, of treatment. This is reversed, but I think we need to put more emphasis on measures that can help small farms, many of them, therefore, to do a treatment of the purins, of all these nitrates, so that I do not wander into our aquifers, for one thing. But for me – and this I think has not been said and I think it is important – there is also a territorial debate; in the end, there is a territorial debate. These branches are located in very concrete places: we have the Segria, we have Osona, the Bergedà, the Noguera..., basically on the side..., say, on the plane of Lleida and what would be all that is Osona and the Bergedà, which are in Barcelona, but which are to the north and touching the Prepirineu. I think it's important that we do this territorial debate. Because, on the one hand, the multipolarity of activities has to be one of the objectives not only for this, but for other concentrations of activities that we have in the territory and that we also have in the metropolitan area. This was a development, too, so how the functions were done or how the different activities were done in the metropolitan area at the time, and I think we need to move it to the territory. If we want to move forward at this point, we need to balance the territory, we certainly need to have a debate about this – today we have five minutes and we can't say more. We consider that this measure is insufficient, and even if we do not block it – we will not vote against it – we will abstain in the decree. Thank you, Counselor, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.87.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Next, and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.88.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. I am already advancing that we, from our group, are critical of this decree, as are many of the sectors affected, precisely, by this new moratorium. Therefore, we shall abstain in this decree. Sounds to me like it's more like a hit. Why? Because you yourself have already explained it: here has already been made another decree, now just two years ago, with a moratorium that turns out to be insufficient. And we'll find ourselves in the same situation again, with a few contaminated with a lot of nitrates, even though you were already commenting on it, right? That there has been a decrease, but that is not yet enough. So, maybe... I think we need to be more creative in the solutions. And the department that you lead has the skills to look for these more comprehensive solutions, with a more global look. And, therefore, I think we need to work in this sense. We are not in favour of making decrees and moratoriums without putting ourselves to work for alternatives. And so, as I said, let's not obstruct the decree, but obviously, we can't give it support, and so we're going to make this abstention. I already tell you that from various affected sectors, as can be the Union of Pages or as can even be the union of Young Farmers and Ramaders of Catalonia, they have manifested themselves before this decree, they are not content with the decree. It is certain that, in some ways, the branch activity is being identified, that the branch activity is being criminalized, but afterwards, when we see the reports – and you refer to these periodic reports that were betrayed by the ACA –, it is not possible to determine the exact origin of these nitrates. And, therefore, to point out in such a clear way, with the harms that this entails, the activities that lie ahead do not seem to be the solution. And I think... I insist that we take a closer look at the problem, because, if not, when this moratorium came to an end, that it was two years old and now it's four years old, so maybe we find ourselves in the same situation, and I think we can't do anything about it. For example, you were commenting, weren't you? ..., said: "There are more purins than fields to adobar. That's right. But if we look at how some of these camps are adopted... they don't use organic adobes; they use mineral fertilizers, for example. So maybe we need to innovate in this sense. It is necessary to encourage those who use these organic adobes. I don't know. I'm saying alternatives that we can look for, because we have these purins that are generated and we have to do something. And, therefore, perhaps one of the solutions is this: to encourage us to look for other lives in order to be able to reverse this excess of nitrates that we have in contaminated waters, which, moreover, are very localized – and now also the Member who preceded me was speaking about it – and very localized in concrete territories. And, therefore, we avoid, in this sense, relimiting these expansions of existing barns or the opening of new ones and seeking these alternative lives. So I'll tell you what... we'll work from the committee to help her in these alternate ways, if that's what she wants. And let's hope that when this moratorium is over, that it looks like today will be approved, with this decree, so we have a definitive solution and that they don't always pay for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.89.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mr Salvador Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.90.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors... I'm a deputy, but I'll try to talk to them as well as to pick them up, see if that's how we bring this stigma that I think we have. For the directives of the European Union, but also by responsibility, it is obvious that we must act on the levels of excessive contamination of nitrates in our aquifers, as much of agricultural origin as – as has been said – of non-agrarian origin, not rowing, of all. In Catalonia the problem exists: we have identified a series of municipalities that we consider to be vulnerable and in which the ICR – the index, in this case, of river load – is greater than 1,2, which means that it exceeds in a twenty_per_cent or more the nitrogen in the form of nitrates that have its own soil to which it would be eligible. This means, therefore, that, therefore, there is no limit to the increase in cattle, loading or density, and this is the result of the decree that was approved two years ago, Decree 153 of July 2019. There is therefore a prohibition on new installations and also on the capacity expansions of these branches which are, let us say, intensive or semi-intensive in the types of pigs, oats, bovíleter. In change, in the rest, and as it should be, there are a number of exceptions to prevent rural depopulation. Since 2019, the ACA has not seen better nitrate loadings in our aquifers; in fact, forty-five more municipalities have been added to the list of vulnerable. On July 25 – four days ago, therefore – this limitation was over; it is obvious that it has been insufficient, and therefore the specialist technicians determine that it would be useful to extend it for at least four years. In fact, on July 2019 – and it was also said – there was a whole series of projects that, therefore, followed their course, and, therefore, not only was the load not reduced, but it continued to increase. And all this, therefore, particularly affects the districts of Osona, Bergedà, but also the Eastern Valley, Pla de l'Estany, Pla d'Urgell, Segria, etcetera. And, at the urban level, in Article 49 of the Law of Urbanism, therefore, it is also proposed to modify what is the definition of sanitary distances in order to extend it to a more global concept that, let us say, also adapts the denseness. And a first point is important: that you need to get old so that you don't make the joints, let's say, out of caution, stop any type of work that wants to do the existing barns in the sense of auxiliary installations, as they could be spaces for then or as could be the treatment of purins. The law of urbanism is very clear: this is out of bounds and only because of the demands of work. We, from Junts to Catalonia, are aware of this environmental problem and of public health, and, therefore, we will vote for it; now, we have always defended that the agricultural sector, as well as the industrial sector, must make its transition towards full environmental sustainability, but that we cannot leave anyone abandoned for the road. The agri-food industry that is derived, therefore, from these branches has an important importance, as we know, in the product fabric of our country. In fact, many and many years ago it is a very important factor in creating jobs and wealth for our communities, also with a very important specific fish in exports. And, in fact, this agri-food industry – and especially the cârnia, the lactia, with all the ramadere farms linked to it – is the most decentralized industry we have. So, now, a few years ago, we've agreed that in certain areas we've been through, huh? , or so on, there's an excessive load in environmental terms. Therefore, we must act, but we must accompany, from the Administration, this sector to its transformation, to innovation, to diversification, so as not to leave anyone for the road. And that means helping them even more, though the public, in all those projects that wander in the line of reducing and, if it can be, eliminating all negative externalities. And with this in mind, therefore, to the treatment of purins, to the generation of energy, to composting, etcetera. In fact, most of the technical proposals that come to us are coming proactively from the sector, with the help of research centres and universities. And I would like to highlight in this sense the project Fertimanure, which has place in Osona thanks to the University of Vic and to the Cooperative Plana de Vic, and which precisely focused on obtaining safe, reliable fertilizers from the waste dumps. And it's over. So, we're working against the nitrate problem, and so much, huh? , but without criminalising the sector; on the contrary, helping it to grow even more strongly and that it can continue to bring about this unpayable territorial rebalancing that it represents for our country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.91.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Alba Camps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.92.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies and deputies... this is the first intervention I make with a mask, and I can do it without... [[Rialles.]] I'll start again. This is the first intervention I've ever made from this Faristol. I'm happy because I'm talking about a topic that affects my more direct territorial environment. In fact, this decree we're talking about affects businesses that are very clean to me, like Osona or Berguedà, two businesses that belong to a lifetime that has seen me grow up, that has seen me born. I would like to congratulate both the department and the sector for courage, compromise and responsibility not only to put a real problem before this Chamber, but also to contribute to it with possible solutions. This moratorium – the councillor has explained it –, among others, makes it possible to reduce the volume of discards to some quantities that allow us to make their treatment sustainable, and it makes it clear that we cannot apply country policies homogeneously to the whole territory. It places those vulnerable rights – in fact, of the sixty-eight municipalities that are detailed, one is mine, Puig-reig – and focuses on them acting, with a territorial equality look and ability to take into account the needs of the territory. Consider certain types of beast exceptions that do not involve such a complicated volume of discards to manage. Therefore, today we are not only talking about a four-year moratorium, but we are talking about the time that we have to make to continue finding solutions, to walk more convinced towards an economic, social and environmental sustainability of all Catalonia, which must be aimed at zero residue and the circular economy. We are a resilient territory; of course we will continue to take advantage of this time of recovery from our eagles to continue generating knowledge that makes us grow like the territory and that makes us grow like the country. An example of this – which has already been mentioned – is the BETA Technology Centre. It is a technological centre located in Osona, Central Catalonia, which coordinates a European project emerging from the need to improve management and evaluate the organic residues that we generate, an initiative that works to create biofertilizing through the disposals that are generated. So, from the problem we have an opportunity; from the problem we have a challenge, and we end up with references at country level and also references at European level. And this is also empowerment: we show on the ground that we are not only able to minimize a problem, but to turn it into products of high added value. From Bergedà, from Osona, as in many other regions of this country, we have in enormous value the economy that is our own, which defines us as the territories. Examples include the forestry sector, the branch sector or the agricultural sector. And we are here because we want to strengthen these sectors. It also means ensuring the availability of fertile land, it also involves net water and it also involves drinking water; it also means ensuring the viability of small producers and producers. We want to keep talking about quality, we want to keep talking about proximity, the time we work for innovation and sustainable growth in these sectors. Because these people who live, work and care for the territory are the ones who fix people in rural areas; environmental sustainability must also be guaranteed, and economic sustainability must be guaranteed. And that no one is confused: who intends to make a contradiction between this decree and the gathering at the branch does the sector a weak favor, because, moreover, lies. What we do is to plant solutions to ramader residues; what we do is to promote sustainable ramader activity by putting in value a primary sector as vital as it is sometimes invisible. And we're here, too, to trap him. Councillor, other times it is again to show the courage of this new department, with general vision; again to show that we are able to work for rural development, that we are able to work for sustainability and, at times, for good environmental and territorial management. The decree that is presented today is a need more than contrasted, taking into account that it affects more than forty per cent of the surface of our country. And, therefore, we cannot allow the contamination of water and we cannot allow the contamination of the soil that is occurring. Why? Because we are much more than that; we are innovation, we are future, we are guarantors of an economic strategy of proximity and territorial development. So, we're going to continue to walk folds, both the Administration and the sector, towards a change of model with respect to the environment, respect for people; a model that generates quality jobs and opportunities. We must move unquestionably towards a sustainable network, and here, counsel, you will always find us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.93.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. I recall that, according to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are votes in favour of the validation of this decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us now proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 17/2021. The vote begins. The Decree Law 17/2021_was validated, with 82 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 41 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? Has your vote not been recorded? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. So let's take note of that, because we didn't have any notification of any incidence. We take note of the escó. Thank you. Well, I told them that... according to Rule 158.4 of the Rules, once this decree has been validated, I'm asking the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to process the decree as a bill of law. [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Any other groups? [[Pause.]] Well, at the request of the People's Unity Candidature Group - A New Cycle to Win, we are now voting if this decree is to be dealt with as the bill. The vote begins. This decree has been validated and will not be processed as a bill of law, because it has held 23 votes in favour..., 112 votes against this processing. So, it's been validated. [[Decree Law 18/2021 of 27 July on the increase in remuneration for the year 2021 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2014 for the public sector staff of the Government of Catalonia]] [[203-00008/13]] And we move to the fourth point of the order of the day, which is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 18/2021 of 27 July, on the increase in remuneration for the year 2021 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2014 for the staff of the public sector of the Government of Catalonia. First of all, according to Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà, Councillor of the Presidency, will speak to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. You've got the word, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.94.0	Councillor, Members, Members, I appear today to ask for the vote in favour of the validation of Decree Law 18/2021 of 27 July, on the increase in remuneration for the year 2021 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2014 for the staff of the public sector of the Generalitat de Catalunya. But before I explain to you the content of the decree, which, as you know, it is essential that we bring it to validation in the situation of presuppositional prorogation, I want to state that if we bring it to it, if we bring this decree to validation, it is because we want to make agreements and negotiations with the conjunction of the workers of the Generality and its public sector, because we believe that the pacts, obviously, must be completed; and that is because of the recognition at the time of governing. Also because this crisis, the crisis is breaking out of covid-19, has shown more than ever the importance of public there and of the immense involvement of the workers of this country. Therefore, I take advantage of this moment, with a few words, to thank them for the tireless work they have done and that they continue to do, from the first line and from all the services and all the units, to make it possible for the machinery to work. And why these people, public servants, we also put them at the center of our policies and our concerns and occupations, like the main act of public administration. From this government we will strive to make the inn possible in the value of its work. I think it's important to tell us, I often remember, that these people are public servants, and that it has to be a work of excellence and a work, therefore, of important reptiles to pull forward. In any case, and to speak of the decree, we also take the vote because we compliment the trade union bargaining agreements and the regulations. And step them to detail the concrete points that this decree has. It is a decree approved by the Government at the session of 27 July and which derives from the agreements reached with the unions at the General Negotiating Bureau of the Public Employment of the Government of Catalonia, so many agreements passed – especially for the recovery of the extraordinary payments of the years 2013 and 2014, which I will refer to – as most recently – at the session that we held on 1 July. This decree regulates the increase of 0.9_per_cent of the salary mass of the staff of the Generality, with the expectation that it is carried out on the September payroll and with retroactive effects from 1 of the generation of 2021. The increase in remuneration applies to all workers also to the General Administration Service and its public sector. The proposal, as I said, was agreed with the unions at the General Staff General Negotiating Bureau of the General Administration, and transferred to both basic and supplementary salaries, and this I would like to highlight: the basics and supplements, with this maximum of 0.9 that allows the state's law of general assumptions for the year 2021. Thus, the law decree increases by 0.9 the maximum imports of variable productivity complements and variable remunerations as a function of objects recognized to certain collections in the law of assumptions. I also want to state that the remuneration of the President of the Generalitat, the Vice-President, the Councillors and Councillors is frozen. Remuneration freezes also affect the totality of charges with remunerative assimilation of previous ones, between those which are included by the direct staff with fixed remunerations and variables that can be remuneratively assimilated to the advisors or advisers of the Generality. Thus, the wage increase does not apply to the pension of the expressionists, who are governed by another legislation of their own. For another band, this decree also provides for partial recovery, as expected, of fifty-five per cent of the 2014 extra-pay import, which was the object of deletion in compliment, lastly, of agreements adopted previously. And, in any case, what we do is to reintegrate these amounts, which will be paid once in the last quarter of this 2021, and actually provide the total number of public sector staff, which saw their remuneration reduced in 2014, for the import of this extra payment. This measure, therefore, compliments the agreements adopted at the General Negotiating Bureau of the Public Employment of the Administration of the Generality, to which the Personnel Negotiating Bureau also adhered to the Office of the Administration of Justice. In any case, in appearance and in commission we already meant that we would complement this mandate as soon as possible, that we would try to bring this approval, if it could be, then, in September, that it was not October. And finally, we got there in time to do this job. For all intents and purposes, they ask for the vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.95.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to set their position, and this round of words, as we agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesman, will be a maximum of five minutes. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, has the word the deputy Mr Cristòfol Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.96.0	Thank you, very honorable President. Honourable Councillor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... Mirin, I am opening today in this chamber to fix the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, as has been said, on the ratification of this decree which the Honourable Councillor of the Presidency has presented to us for the partial recovery of the extraordinary payment of 2014 and also for the recognition of the increase of this 0.9_per_cent by 2021 to all the workers and public workers of the Government of Catalonia. And, therefore, for me, and let me..., it is easier to debut on one theme, if I may, pleasant or positive than on another that can be more controversial – we will have occasion. I, in addition – allow me the leniency –, do so, so, addressing the councillor, the Honourable Councillor Laura Vilagrà, with whom we have shared political experiences and common territorial origin, still makes it much easier for me. Mirin, from our parliamentary group we have celebrated this decision which we have been presented with, and, of course, we are moving forward with our recollection of this decree. In all the questions that make reference to fulfilling the commitments made with the public workers of the Generality, they will keep us on their side. That, like the administration, we will be among everyone so that we can keep them focused on their work and that we do not have to wait for their government to complete or not complete their labor rights. We understand that the agreement reached with workers' and workers' representatives on September 2018 established that 2021 would recover fifty-five per cent of this 2014 pay, and with what we will approve today, this commitment is complete. And, moreover, I believe, sincerely, that we convey to them a clear message that we want to follow that way, complementing the commitments. No less important, too, is the recognition of this 0.9_per_cent with effects 1 of generation of 2021, which is the increment that has been established in the general assumptions of the State and that also comes to the workers. Therefore, I repeat, let us celebrate, as I said before, all these compulsory compliments, but I must also say that we believe that we should not have taken so long. Our parliamentary group, in fact, has already had to do so, with a motion for a resolution which was approved in this Parliament in 2016, to recover the 2012 pay, and which also sets a timetable for 2013 and 2014. Seven years since 2014– and we're not done yet, because forty-five_per_cent is missing – it's too many years, we think too many years. Mirin, I'm sure you know, as we also know, that as many assemblies as regional councils and provincial deputies will have to take, at the time, unpleasant measures and freeze or not be able to attend to the 2013 and 2014 payments. And they also know, with us, honourable Counselor, that the Generalitat de Catalunya..., these gatherings, congresses and regional councils have encountered economic difficulties of financing and lack of resources. But I can assure them that today they are already day-to-day with their workers and workers, basically because they prioritized as quickly as possible the payment of these imports and payments. They prioritized me. Therefore, it would be warm if we took note of all and all, honorable counsel. And, therefore, the transferees also that, from our parliamentary group, we will age, therefore, because this agreement of 2018 has been completed and that in the assumptions of 2022 the forecast is made and the forty-five_per_cent pending of this payment of 2014 that still the lack to liquidate, and also the addition of productivity is returned. Therefore, from our group, I support all these measures, but warn them that we will continue to prop – and not the costs so far – the compliment of all these agreements adopted with public workers. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.97.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gimeno. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs María Elisa García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... I have carefully read your decree law, Mrs Vilagrà, and I am surprised by the little shame you have. In this decree law we have to vote if fifty-five percent of the extra pay of public workers is returned, pay which was withdrawn as a result of the economic difficulties experienced by the separatist government of Artur Mas. But, along with this, you begin the climb signed by Mr. Torra in May 2020 to enrich the former presidents of the government, yes, as well as an increase in salary to the senior officials and managers of the Generalitat, that is to say to their client network. On the one hand, this decree law finally proposes to return a capital that had been unjustly withdrawn from public workers, a historical claim that finally reaches this chamber after years of disdain from separatist governments. Unfortunately, public workers are always the target of the economic cuts of all the governments of the Generalitat. Since it cannot be otherwise, it seems absolutely reasonable and fair to us, but it is a measure that comes too late and, moreover, it is insufficient, because, apart from 0.9_per_cent, there are also productivity complements to add to all this. It seems a lie that in July 2021 we are voting for something that has been claimed for so many years. However, this decree is a great attempt at deception. As experts in the field, they again manipulate and twist the legislative tools to try to collate our personal and political benefits. It is shown once again that, in the face of people's prosperity, you prioritize the well-being of your political class. And, if you look at the provision, Mrs Vilagrà, second of the decree..., reiterates – reiterates – the increase in the pensions of former presidents of the Generalitat and their families. They take advantage of a fair claim to claim a salary increase for their former party companions. Ladies and gentlemen, if what we should do is to abolish, to remove this cove of capital represented by the famous offices of former presidents, as we have been requesting for months, with a bill registered already on 5 May, and not to increase its contribution. And finally, I want to address all Catalans and the media that transmit the information to the citizenry, including the media that you subsidize to lie and misrepresent, such as TV3 and La Vanguardia. And I want to make it clear to you that, since VOX, we are absolutely in favour of returning the extra payment in full to all public workers and of increasing the salary by 0.9, but we are also in favour of the inclusion of productivity supplements that have not yet been paid. What VOX disagrees with is this decree that you present, where you have taken advantage of the needs of the people to include a salary increase of high positions chosen by you to your finger – your customer network – and reiterate – reiterate – the salary increase of the offices of former presidents signed by Mr. Torra in the midst of the pandemic – pensions of former presidents including Artur Mas, who carried out these cuts, who stopped paying those workers to pay for criminal acts whose bail we will pay among all Catalans with public money. That is why we are going to abstain and present an exclusive bill for public workers to recover what they have earned without putting on human shields, as the Generalitat has done with this decree law. Thank you very much, gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.99.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, Mrs. Dolors Sabater has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.100.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, deputies and deputies, and all the people who followed the plenary, especially the workers and workers of the public sector, more than 500,000, of whom thirty_per_cent are in time and many find it difficult to lack personnel, material difficulties and violations of rights to exercise their work... A recognition to struggles in favor of the public services that are seen day by day in the country: class unions, workers' mobilizations, such as the interiors – the platform of interiors – the 112, the SAT, transforming municipalism that curses day by day to recover the public management of much of the services that are in the hands of the speculation of the great oligopolises and the popular movements of organized citizenship that need to be defended by the public in order to claim the structure of the country alone. Obviously, we are in favour of recovering labour rights from workers in the public sector, and against, in any case, what is done with counters and in part. We have argued here, in this chamber, with the defense of the law of interims, with the deputy Basha; it had been done on many occasions by the deputy Vidal Aragonese, and, concretely, on October 19, with the defense of a motion against the precarious work of the public sector. They already know that our group is firmly committed to ending this temporality, defending that the public sector is recovering and is in sectors that are now outsourced, such as those that it called, right? , 112, SAT and so many others. And, therefore, it is clear that in this part of the point that you present us with the decree that refers to this recovery of rights, we are in favour. I would like to recall a few words given by Vidal Aragonese in this defense of the young man, who says: "They are short measures, which are short, but we have to vote in favour because, in the end and in the end, they are one better of the situation of the workers, despite the fact that, obviously, for us, they are very small things, because our programme, which is revolutionary and of change and of absolute transformation of this society, goes for a much wider scope. In fact, I do not think we can make it clear that the crises we are dealing with at this time – both the climate and the climate, with the consequent economic crisis – have made it clear that capitalism and neoliberalism are giving harmful results, and therefore we must go for this strengthening of the public sector, without further discussion. Now, Counselor, you have put a part of our decree here that, under a title that also, obviously, as in political space, we will defend it to the extreme, which is the freezing of the undersides of the high bodies..., you have put an exemption, an exception to this freezing of the undersides of the high bodies, which cannot be endorsed. You clearly tell us that this freezing does not apply to entities of the public sector of salvation in a rule of autonomy of management that have established concerts, agreements or contracts with the Generality. That is to say, we are talking about what we have denounced so many times, which is that with concerts, with the concertation of basic services, what is being done is to pre-characterize the workers and workers and not to control the wealth, the pressures of being from the top ranks of private enterprises that are managing the public sector of health..., it turns out that with this decree they are exempt and are not retailed. Therefore, we agree that the undersides of the high charges are not only for a matter of public expenditure content, but because the citizenry, which is living precariously– that more than fifty_per_cent not up to the end of the month, that we are in a very difficult poor situation– do not understand that the public and political charges cover so much over their undersides, and also because we do not want it to be only in the direct public sector, but also in externalisation. Therefore, we shall abstain. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.101.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, Mr Joan Carles Gallego has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.102.0	Okay. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies... to vote in favour of this decree that you have submitted to us. We've talked to the unions, and obviously they have an urgent need to give out their demands. And we will vote for it because we, like the unions, want more, we don't want any less. So, let's just say, we understand that this decree has to come forward. A decree that what you're going to lay down is the return on one side of the accumulated debt and the remunerative up-to-date 2021 pay. But, said that, and said that we will vote in favour, I would also like to make it clear that we are aware of the motivating statements that we have in the decrees, and also sometimes with the interventions that we present to them, because, if not, we can end up making a certain cynicism of speech, at the time of presenting the questions. The content of this decree has not been granted with the unions. At the July 1st meeting, there was no agreement, because unfortunately – unfortunately – the culture of the employment relations of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia with regard to the representatives of its workers is a culture that is little respectful of trade union rights and the right to collective bargaining; it is a culture that is more aviated from "hearing, bar! not to reach agreements comparing positions and materializing them in a point of contact. That's not what he's used to doing. It is true that there is an agreement of the year 2008 – certainly – an agreement of the year 2008 that makes reference to the outstanding debts of those famous double payments, that of 2013 and that of 2014; that, certainly, the agreement of the year 2008 that only extended to Catalonia, in place more; that of 2014 the only public workers that still hold it are those of the Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia, because – the company has already commented on it before – until and all the local administrations of Catalonia have already been able to return it. And it's true that 2018 there was-there was an agreement at the negotiating table. There was-there was an agreement because there was-there was a call for vacancies of the employees and public employees who then made the Administration understand that an agreement was to be signed; yes, you say, "So long" in time. But in this dilation in time it became clear that the year 2021 could not recover as a minimum fifty-five_per_cent; the forty-five_per_cent, if there was no possibility, the 2022..., but if there was no possibility, the 2021 would liquidate everything. Which, of course, is the motion approved last week in this Parliament. This Parliament replaced the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia – the Government – because they sold, before the year ended, the outstanding debts. Therefore, it was possible, because it had been granted with the unions the opportunity, and the Parliament sent it that way to the government, and they did not: it is only part of the debt, which is recovered. Therefore, we also understand how we have to explain things, because, if not, they end up feeling like a cynical little thing, because we put in value things that, unfortunately, we do not do since the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia. And it's true that, I insist, there was no agreement at the July 1st meeting, because the unions obviously demanded, like the state's general assumptions, 0.9_per_cent, but taking into account what Catalonia's social and economic reality is. Because instead it is written that the highest wage increase in Catalonia must be, at least, the same as in the State, because if there is a specific socioeconomic reality and we are determined, we can also, at the time of negotiation, establish these themes. You're telling me in the destiny complement, aren't you? True; in the specific complement, yes, because that's it. And it can be done, it just requires political will. And I also say that, certainly, July 1 did not agree with it, but let us remember that since July 1st, 2021..., the October 1st table had not met at the end of 2020. He also wants to say, say, a certain negotiating will on the part of the Generality. In any case, we will vote in favour, because the debt is pending and can solve it, but we also understand that there are still pending fears of negotiation with workers and public workers who have economic, but also labor, repercussions. Among them, the need to negotiate the teletreball decree, because it cannot be that it is necessary to impose a decree that was neither negotiated nor that at these times the negotiation is being demanded because the situation and experience of these years have put on the table new needs. And it's worth it that the councillor has this too, so that we can negotiate with the workers a teletreball decree that doesn't only raise what is the time of face-to-face, but also the recognition of rights, risk prevention, material, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.103.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Congressman Joan García has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.104.0	Thank you, President. It's true that the public workers in Catalonia did not treat themselves well. I believe that this statement..., if anyone can in any way contradict me - so you do it, but I think that it did not go well, did not go well, the public workers of Catalonia, especially the last, practically, eleven years since that famous « government of the best of the Lord But, that began to practice the details that our public servants paid, especially in Catalonia. It has been said here– and I think that Mr. Gallego, who understands enough, of all this, so he has put it on the table –: he has told the public workers in Catalonia more than elsewhere in all of Spain, and he has not returned to the fact that they took some governments, even though he has returned to all of Spain and to all the administrations, also to Catalonia. Therefore, it is true that today there is a decree which, in some way, tries to complete or to complete agreements of this Parliament, but I believe that the whole and the will and including the political opportunity that it has wanted to carry, curiously, today the Government, so – that I will also speak about it now – with this decree, they do not correspond with the real deal that has been reached with public workers. And it didn't go well because... I remember..., in fact, one of the first interventions I made in this Parliament in 2015-2016..., one of the themes that was talked about and worked the most was, precisely, the return of the foreign payments taken in previous years. And I remember perfectly like the government of Mas, and then the government of Puigdemont, they systematically opposed, as well as approving proposals for unanimous resolutions in this Parliament, as in 2016, so... they opposed making a calendar to return the foreign payments. It was a continuous work of detachment of work and economic, social and labour rights which they had and which were close to public workers. For us, things like what we saw the other day with stakeholders are those tips of the iceberg that give us to understand that the public worker, that the function – I mean public work in general – is not well treated. We have – and I think it's important to say it in every intervention –..., we continue to have a forty per cent temporality between our functioning. When it comes to the objectives – and the unions and Europe, in fact, so they reaffirm –..., the objective should be a eighth_per_cent. We have, therefore, public workers abused by the different independent governments since 2010 and who today have a social, labor situation, but also temporality, terrible. So this is the situation and this is the picture; I'm saying it because we're not fooling each other. To us, obviously, that the motions are being completed and to what has been approved in Parliament and that we have approved all the groups during the last legislatures seems good to us, and we will vote in favour, counsel. We voted in favour of all the others – in fact, the 18th was a further increase in the number of civil servants and public workers – and everything that comes back from social and labour rights to public workers will have our support. But it's insufficient, it's totally insufficient, and we think that, on the other hand, the use that is being made many times of things like this, of news like today, so... I think they're wrong. And last but not least, and I would like to say this directly: yes, I would like to make a little bit, in fact, of some statements that have been made or that are made at various times by the government, when it is spoken, many times..., as I have seen, or have seen today, the President of this Parliament speaking that you will work very hard for the permanent establishment of the State. I want to end with a phrase that I think is a reality: the public workers these last years – eleven years – have had a lot for – a lot for – but to you, to the independence governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.105.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Eva Parera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.106.0	Thank you very much, President. The truth is, this point seems to me to be an authentic prey of hair. Seven years to pay only fifty-five percent of what's given is a skin grip. And you, in the background, what you're doing is speculating with labor rights, and I think it's pretty immoral, speculating with labor rights. I would recommend that you do not make any decrees on which you take advantage to incorporate additional provisions on the subject. This has a very simple solution: it's the assumptions, it's the assumptions, it's the assumptions, and there's a presupposition where this debt is settled. And the problem is over. And you're making a clean picture of what you're doing to the workers. Because it's still a forty-five percent, and see how long it takes to pay for it. It is that this is neither minimally normal – nor minimally normal –, and less in a situation of economic crisis as we are now. Now, this poor people will be wrenching economic crisis with economic crisis, and they will be wrenching up one thing that is theirs, which is their remuneration. Therefore, we will abstain, because we do not want to block the payment, but we ask you, please, to liquidate in your own assumptions everything you still have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.107.0	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs. Glòria Freixa has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.108.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, counsel... Today we may be able to congratulate each other, because this government decree returns at least part of the 2014 payments to the Generality. But, as he has said, we also want to say that this is an act of justice on the part of the workers of this country who have also lost..., they have suffered in their own flesh that crisis, which also implied a reduction in their purchasing power and without the fact that in any case, as he has said, they have ceased to complete their functions as public servants. The Generalitat, even though they explain to us everything that they have come to say here about the delays, has suffered many difficulties, in this return. He began completing his promise on October 2019, when forty_per_cent of the extra payment pending for the year 2013 was returned, to continue completing the debt also on July of the year 2020, and today we can say that we continue to complete these government pacts to pay this partial payment of the extraordinary payment of 2014 to the public sector staff of the Generalitat de Catalunya. It was and is compromised by this government to complement the staff of the Public Administration, because we are very clear that the public administrations operate thanks to the dedication and effort of these public workers, but we cannot forget that the difficult crisis that happened in Catalonia – a deep economic crisis, also redeemed by the economic crisis that Spanish disease – was not..., the measures that were taken were not vulgar measures. And when they talk to us about what happened, what happened..., or so, it seems to me that they should talk to more data and facts, because I don't think there is any government in the world that would want to be known as the government of retail. The first, the most painful, came precisely from the Spanish government, forced for the European Union, not to follow the path that Greece was already following. And I remind them that it was the same Spanish president who, in one book, published what was the most painful minutes – two minutes and a half –... ; says: « Two hundred_seven words that I read with all the conviction that I was able to do at the time when I announced the details. Then came the governments of the Generality, who had to practice the same detail. It was pure survival: it was this or not to complete with the essential services to the citizenry. Therefore, that deep crisis that profoundly affected this country had to bear it also in its power to acquire the administrative officials. And from this time I want to thank, we want to thank, the loyalty, the compromise and the task carried out by those workers at those times, example of serving the Administration of the Generality, example of public servers. As we said, it was the public workers, some of the great ones affected by that crisis. But they do not cheat, do not speak only of Catalonia: not only does the Government of Zapatero begin to detail this five_per_cent of the sou, but it continues to Castella - the Manxa, with Cospedal, with a reduction of three_per_cent; it continues to Canàries, to the Basque Country, to Castella and Lleó – who opted for wage freezes–, and also to Andalusia – which suppressed the extra payment of June. We are no longer talking about the interis, which take the lowest part of the coin, captivating the Galícia rienquing, with a disastrous reduction of thirty-three per cent of its day; later, the Valencian country, with a twenty-i-five per cent; Catalonia, with a fifteen, and Andalusia, with a god. When we talk about the delay, the delay of these years, we would like to explain here the great economic effort that the Generalitat has made to reverse these flaps. Some are still standing still – we explained it – and it is a compromise that this year 2022 is coming to an end. But it is true that we have found ourselves with new situations that have gone out, such as the increase of the population, the increase of the number of secondary students, the demography, the inclusion of new medical treatments or new spending measures – such as the guaranteed income of the citizenry – which have caused the Generality to make further efforts. When from some sector it is said that the clippings are invisible to the citizen..., it is noted in their day to day when a train of rollers is taken, when they ask for an hour for a medical resonance, when they need a seat at the school or when they ask for a scholarship to study..., so this, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to share it. This is also the fiscal deficit that we experienced back in the year, and that has also made it difficult to reverse these details. This reversal began the Generality in 2015, and went back as far as the Generality of Catalonia was economically able. I sincerely believe that our solidarity has a few limits, and that it should have been precisely the last citizenry to suffer this return from foreign payments. We think Catalans deserve more. We know they're tired, we know they don't want to listen to him, but for us there's only one way out: we're leaving. Thank you all. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.109.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.110.0	Thank you, President. Well, we have a decree to the damunt of the table, on 18/2021, which speaks to us of certainly economic recovery in the face of the public sector of our country. Before... getting into the matter of the decree, huh? But before that, I'd also like to make some considerations. We must bear in mind that what we are voting on today is an agreement with the vague committee signed on 11 December 2018. What we are voting on today is an agreement signed with the vacancy committee that was ratified by the General Civil Service Committee with all the legal representation of our country's public workers and workers. What we are taking to the vote today is nothing more than the compliment of that agreement that was taken. In that agreement there were other important points, and one of them – and I put it that way, and I explain it that way because there have been previous words that have put the issue on the table – makes a clear reference to the fact that the terms of payment and return can be advanced, on the basis of the negotiation, in the 2021 premise. As you know, we're under prolonged pressure. What is incorporated in the presupposition of 2020 is precisely the pay that was returned in 2020; therefore, if we want to return a pay in 2021, we have to do so through decreed law. Therefore, there is no other explanation. From here, as we don't have 2021 assumptions, because we have extended it to 20, we can't negotiate the advance of the 2022 pay. It seems to me that we also need to clarify the terms, because it is also a good thing that, when we have an approval decree, we explain exactly its content and what this decree is about. It is logical that this decree emanates, essentially, from collective bargaining and agreement with the vague committee ratified by the general bureau of public office. An agreement that said that the year 2019 would return forty_per_cent of the 2013 extra pay– a deu_per_cent in the first quarter, thirty_per_cent in the rest–; that said that 2020 would return sixty_per_cent of the corresponding pay to 2013; an agreement that also said that the year 2021 would return fifty-five_per_cent of the 2014 extra pay– that is what we are approving today, because we are in year 2021 and the Government is completing its paragraph – and that 2022 would return forty-five_per_cent of the outstanding pay to 2014– so 2022 will also be incorporated into the presuppostary environment for such a return, and therefore, complete if the item is entered into. And, in effect, there is another element that is also important and substantial, because it also affects us, which is the 0.9 pay increment. And this pay increment could only be for the fixed-character pay concepts; it could be, peace of mind, but it will be for the fixed-character pay concepts and it will also be for the variable-character – therefore, for all pay concepts. And that's also important that we can say it and express it. And, finally, the productivity complement: in this same agreement to which I have made reference..., 2021, fifty_per_cent recovery of the productivity complement; 2022, full recovery, at one hundred_per_cent, of the productivity complement. And, therefore, this will also be given in this year 21, and compliments will also be given in 2022. Therefore, what we do today is essentially to complete with the given word, what we do today is essentially to return to the public servants of our country..., that those who want strong, empowered, capable, quality, excellence..., are the first ones we need to do. Because if the activity of any company, the major activity that there is, are its workers and its workers, the major activity that this Administration has are its public servants, are its workers and its public workers, who make our work felt. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.111.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. The reminder that, in accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. The vote begins. In view of the result of the vote, Decree 18/2021 was ratified, with 112 votes in favour and 23 abstentions. In accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, a valid copy of this decree I ask the House whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to be dealt with as draft law. [[Pause.]] The People's Union candidacy so requests, and therefore we proceed to the vote on whether this decree should be dealt with as a bill of law. The vote begins. With the result of the vote – 31 votes in favour and 104 votes against – the law decree has been validated and will not be dealt with as draft law. At this point in the order of the day, we suspend the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.112.0	Good afternoon. At the reception of the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees in relation to Decree Law 15/2021 of 6 July of the creation of the supplementary fund of risks of the Government of Catalonia, let us now pass to the next point of the order of the day. [[Decree Law 15/2021 of 6 July of the creation of the Complementary Fund for Risks of the Government of Catalonia]] [[203-00005/13]] The fifth point of the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of this decree. And, therefore, in the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2, has the words of the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr Jaume Giró, to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.113.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, President, Councillors, Councillors, since the government passed this decree on 6 July, which I am presenting today to validate, you know that we have defended that it was a solvent decree and well forged legally, and even someone is joking when we say it is legally impeccable. And today the Council of State Guarantees knows well what it has said: it has unanimously endorsed the constitutionality and adequacy of the Statute of the Decree in its entirety; entirely from the first to the last article, which makes the doubts about its legality disappear, which was intentionally the last weeks. This decree that we are bringing to Parliament today to validate creates a foundation that serves to give coverage to public servants who are in the process of legal proceedings for any action that has been taken in the course of their task, because they can defend themselves while the process lasts and without having to put their own assets or take them away from their homes and pensions. Protect public servers as they do all democracy administrations in the western world. It is a public foundation that complements the risks that the Generalitat did not currently cover – yes in the past, until the late 17th – and that we will now cover in favour of current and future civil servants; it guarantees to the people affected their right to the presumption of innocence and prevents the production of embargoes of assets and assets without being judged. It is a mechanism to restore freedom, to make political action in Catalonia without fear, the anguish that we have experienced so far in this long time. In agreement with the sisena and later recommendation of the advice of the Council of State Guarantees, proposed to the group that they vote favorably the processing as the draft law to incorporate the best drafting proposed by the Council of State Guarantees and that in any case, as you know – in no case – modify or alter the content of the decree. As the law decree has been sufficiently explained with all manner of public appearances by members of the government and by myself, I will now be allowed to make some reflection around the decree and what we are after in the past weeks. Ever since I was a teenager, I've had the highest regard for the political office and the public servant vocation. I have my ideas and convictions, but naturally with respect to all the others – all of them – and every time I come to Parliament, as defined by the State, is the place that all the people of Catalonia represent, and every time I enter this historically charged hemisphere, I want to think that all the members of this chamber – all of us, without exception – pursue the common good and all of us believe that democratic politics is the most civilized form, but also the most just way to achieve it. Each game looks for the right way with its own positions, and that's what enriches the debate and strengthens democracy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is so hard for me to hear that some formations with Citizens or with VOX so easily renounce their own political sovereignty. Because that's exactly what they're doing, they're claudicating, they're giving up doing what their voters chose them for, which is nothing else to do with politics. Politics is one thing that is why the citizens have chosen this Parliament. They did it here, in this Parliament of Catalonia, they did it with this decree of law, with all the efforts and even the correctness of it, we had who arrived before filing a complaint, but they also did it in the Congress of Madrid and they did it in the European Parliament, as they did with President Puigdemont and with the deputies Comín and Ponsati. You, who are said to be liberals, perhaps for this reason consider that an appropriate procedure for managing public affairs can be the subcontracting of certain services. You have decided to subcontract your work to the courts and the prosecution. [[Greetings.]] I tell them sincerely, and I tell them, believe me, with all due respect: I never imagined that one day you would come to think that it could be a good idea to subcontract the debate and political discussion while sending them to the courts. Never imagined that you, lords and lords of Citizens and VOX, come to think of yourselves as redundant, that your scons and your sub-publics are redundant, and that you believe, as you seem to think, that the best way to deploy the program of your parties is to subcontract this task to the courts. Look, God forbid I give them a council, but watch out, because when representatives of a political party act as if they believe that others can do better than their own work, then people stop voting. Honestly and humbly the proposition... I'm telling you, it's not a purely political speech, I'm telling you, we're starting the legislature right now. Honestly and humbly I have proposed that you return the policy to where you never have to go, that is to say, to this Parliament, because you are here to make and have political debates and not to promote political judgments. Finally, I will not take advantage of this forum to answer many things that have been said, because it would be doing a bad use of this forum, but I do want to end up explaining one last reflection. Mirin, a few years ago, since the personal decision, the individual, peaceful and democratic decision of hundreds of thousands of people, women and men, has changed the majority in this Parliament, our country through transcendental moments, moments full of collective enlightenment, but also disarrayed for many people. This is a stage that I'm sure historians won't go through. Many people, a few years from now, will look back and see where they have been, where we have been people, parties, entities and institutions in Catalonia. It is important to make decisions that resist the pace of time and the depth of consciousness of each school. And I can say to you, with all due respect to this Parliament, that this decree will resist the judgment, the judgment and the passage of time. I was talking to them about the moments we're living. Mirin, of the worst things that can happen to a country is that a part of the representatives of the citizenry put on the march actions that consciously, that deliberately provoke patience and injustice to innocent people and that feed harm and low passions to threaten, in an unequal battle, people, entities and institutions; actions that force the truth, and that force the truth to the point of prostitution on doors, headlines, editorials... There is no need to have Machiavel read to tell us when a situation like this is going on and five parties and five powers there are behind. This decree will, more than justly, avoid the suffering of many honest families and people, faithful public servants chosen at the time for this Parliament or for the Government that you have at the time. This decree, ladies and gentlemen, will allow us to endorse – yes, to endorse – the presumption of innocence – is a fundamental right of people – and will help us to undermine the subtle repression of why it offends the legitimate and democratic political action in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.114.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. The time allowed in the later Portaveus Junta to make these positions in these word turns will be two minutes. We will begin with the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.115.0	Thank you, President. Very late, President, Councillor Giró, Councillors and Councillors. Today we are debating the Decree of 15/2021, relating to the creation of this Supplementary Risk Fund of the Government of Catalonia. Administrations, as well as natural or legal persons, therefore have the obligation to ensure the possible claims that may be brought to an end in the light of their actions. In this case the Generality, in order to clearly face these responsibilities and legal obligations for the protection of public servers, has subscribed to civil liability policies for the coverage of these risks that we are talking about. As well, as the Government says in the statement of reasons for this particular decree that we are debating today, this situation has changed and is currently leading to an exclusion of certain risks from the subscribed policies. When all risks are not assured, sometimes they can be, obviously, for different reasons. There is not a very clear one, which is very much with insurers, which is, for example, in the case of climate catastrophes, in which many insurers do not want to cover these risks, is there? It wouldn't be the case, obviously, that we're dealing with. And the question we would probably have to ask ourselves is why insurers gave up, at a certain time, taking some risks from the Government of Catalonia. I think that's the question and that we should also do it and we would like to answer it. It seems to be – and this could also be confirmed by the Government – that, if we are not wrong, the motiu was taken out of 9-N, the year 2014, which some assurances eliminated, exclored some of the risks of the Government of Catalonia. At that time, 9-N, but then again, we saw how the Government of the Generality put the institutions out of the law. And this obviously allows or obliges the insurers to take risks that they did not want to face. And it's here when, obviously, any risk has to be taken. If it is not done by someone private, someone external, it must be done by the owner, in this case, we say, of that act. Therefore, in this sense, what we are asking ourselves is why this self-insurance was not done in 2014, or 2015, or 2016 or 2017. I mean, it had to be done seven years later. Just this reason, the fact that it's done today and it's not done a few years ago, when this risk of the assurances of the Generality was ruled out..., is precisely this reason for which we asked the Council for statutory guarantees. We had the doubt as to whether the decree was the best formula for regulating this assurance, this self-assurance that the Generality is made of assuming this risk. He said the Constitutional Court, in various judgments, that there can be no law on individual cases, you know that obviously vagrant to regulate a concrete case, that is, ad hoc laws. And this was a doubt that obviously suggested this decree to us once we were able to study. It is true that we have received the report very just, we have been able to read it quickly. I have always said – and I have been heard by some Members – that I believe that we should not do things like this, that we should give ourselves the time to mature the reports, to mature the laws, to legislate well, that it is one of the main functions, obviously, of this Parliament. But in any case, we have read the report – we have tried to do so with great precision – and it is true that the doubts that my parliamentary group has have become clear, since the Council of State Guarantees, unanimously, has determined the legality of the decree for which it makes the Constitution and the Statute of Catalonia. We want to highlight, it is true, a fact that is not always a woman, but that we want to highlight it, which is the fact of unanimity. That is to say, all the members of the statutory guarantee board, therefore, have established this legality, and I believe that all the doubts that have arisen, not only in my group, but in other parliamentary groups, have been resolved. And I think this is a positive aspect that we would like to highlight. Still, the Board of State Guarantees makes some recommendations. Say, and I want to read it exactly, so that it is not my words... Say..., make some recommendations" with the aim of improving the regulatory quality of the law decree, and expressly emptying certain doubts raised by the current wording. That's exactly what I'm saying; that's to say, to improve the rules, to improve the wording, because it's not ambiguous, because it's clearer, we're proposing some changes, some modifications. Obviously, this opinion, which is up to the parliamentary groups, the only way we have the parliamentary groups to be able to discuss these texts is through a bill of law, to process it as a bill of law, because you know that parliamentary groups cannot make decrees of law. Therefore, we want to propose and we want to propose, in fact, that this can be handled as a bill, to address these doubts raised by the current wording. We have listened, therefore, with the attention of Councillor Giró, to whom I would also like to thank his intervention, above all this predisposition that this can be handled as a bill of law and, therefore, to address in this process, therefore, these aspects that the Council of State Guarantees says. I believe that the government, in short, is manifesting its willingness to do things right, despite the mistakes that have also been made in this process. And we want to say so, because there's one aspect of this decree, which followed its application, which was not the most uncertain, right? If we want to say it in a very correct way. He told us that the Councillor Giró had not found... that is true, you have not found any financial institution that can face to endorse or can endorse this operation, and have been forced, therefore, obviously, to resort to the ICF, as provided for by its own decree. It is to say, that it is true that the decree already provides for this situation and, moreover, exceptions because the same ICF can endorse physical persons, who do not say so their statutes. And, therefore, once the lawfulness of this decree is approved by you, and I think it's also worth saying. Now, I think we've seen a show that wouldn't be the fittest or closest to public servants, since we've seen how the government had to move in twenty-four hours, right? And here, then, the councilman turned, on the 20th and 21st of July, we saw how he gave us one thing and the contract with very few hours of difference. On July 20, he said: "The financial entities we have contacted have not validated this operation and it is an operation that does not have a technical, commercial or legal lock. We've seen that it's legal that you don't have it, according to the State Guarantee Board. But what he said is that they didn't want to..., he says: "But we don't want to put the operation through the ICF, with the professional head of the ICF, and therefore we won't do this operation through this institute. On the 21st, in his parliamentary office – you must remember – the Councillor Giró told us that he had spoken to President Aragonès and that, in the end, that is what he would do through the ICF. Well, it seems to us that it is certainly not the way, the application of this decree probably did not happen as we wanted and as it did to some institutions that deserve all their prestige and professionalism. In fact, in the vote of the ICF we have been aware to the length of the days, therefore, that it was not certainly done as it played. Of the six independent councillors, three resigned before, three more voted against, and the delegated councillor, who is the maximum execution of the Catalan Institute of Finance, abstained. That is to say, it does not seem, obviously, that we have put the ICF in a good situation; among other things, because this has undermined its prestige and its credibility, not only that of the ICF, we also believe that the one of our own advisor and the President of the Generality, eh? We didn't think they did the right thing. The application of this decree in concrete was not successful. And, therefore, we believe that this also has to be said. And surely that's what will make our position in relation to this decree today stand forbearance. We believe that no more mistakes like this can be allowed, that they harm our institutions, and therefore we would ask them that you try to put all your senses so that we do things right. Just as we cannot allow tomorrow, at the Conference of Presidents, there is an empty chair. President Aragonès, allow me to take this opportunity. All presidents of autonomous communities will be at the Conference of Presidents tomorrow. You're the only one who won't be there. He said the other day he won't go to the finds that are used to take pictures. It seems to us that it is a lack of respect to say this, when there are many, all the presidents and presidents; they are going to do a job. And, therefore, out of respect for others, I think we should also be respectful. I do not think that the Lehendakari Urkullu went to take a photo, he goes to a meeting where he will talk about two main issues: one, the necessary modification of the new financing model, and, two, precisely the distribution, the distribution of European funds through the autonomous communities. It seems to us that it's important to be everywhere you ask. In fact, yesterday, Counselor Giró was at the Tax and Finance Policy Council. It seems to us that it is the obligation of any political leader to represent the Catalans where they are called, where they are asked. And, therefore, what we would like is for Catalonia, which is a Spanish state-relevant voice, which is a Spanish-relevant voice, so keep the space that it is worth; that if you're listening, that we can say ours and that we don't stay in a place where none of us care. We believe, indeed, President Aragones..., you still have a few hours to think about 'hey, if not, also because you can send someone. I think we should learn from the mistakes we have made, in part, with the application of this decree, but also from others, such as this one, which seems to us not to bring any positive element to Catalonia; on the contrary, we believe it will harm us. Therefore, this is our position for what it does to the decree, for what it does to its application, that I think it does not leave us in a very good position, and therefore we want, therefore, in this way, to mark also which will be our vote of this decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.116.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Joan Garriga has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.117.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Look, they want to approve this decree law that creates a supplementary fund of risks with 10_million_of_euro to cover the bail of 5.4_millions that the Court of Auditors asks to dozens of posts and discharges of the Generalitat. Bravo, I've never seen him. They say that this fund has as its main objective to protect all public servants in the legitimate exercise of their office. Lie! The purpose of this fund is to protect the politicians involved in the irregular expenditure of the separatist process and brought before the Court of Auditors. Why are these separatist leaders brought before the Court of Auditors? For lack of control, for unjustified payments, for lack of documentation of expenditure, for irregularities in budgetary clearance procedures, for irregularities in contracts and for allocating resources to activities linked to the routing process that exceed their powers. This includes contracts with international entities, expenses, travel, hotels, including the purchase of a mobile phone for a person who is not part of the Administration; conferences, dinners with foreign journalists, book presentations, even castler exhibitions, all to enhance the separatist process with the money of all Catalans. And that's why the Court of Auditors claims some amounts: 5.4_million_of_euros, which must return to the Generalitat the direct ones, and that while the process lasts they have to endorse with their own particular goods. And, of course, they protect themselves among separatist friends and seek the formula that the Generalitat, with the money of everyone, welcomes these separatist leaders who owe us good money to all Catalans. Totally, that then begins the Giro de las avales, the Tour de Irregularidades, with the nut turn of the separatist scam. First, they wanted to look for a national financial institution that would endorse the amounts claimed with the counter-backed funds of the Generalitat; obviously, they did not find it. Second, looking for a foreign bank to enter the operation; of course, they haven't found it either. Third, they announced that they renounced the responsibility of the Institut Català de Financi for the guarantees, all to protect their workers and their families; of course, they also retreated. And in the face of the obvious failure, they forced the Institut Català de Financi, after fighting between Junts and Esquerra, to make that decision to endorse with this fund. That is why they resign, before making the decision, three members, making themselves a classic already from this chamber, which is to make an Alonso Cuevillas. And, fifth, of course, the Court of Auditors questions the legality of this endorsement, and before deciding whether or not to accept it, it shall refer the investigator to the State's Advocate. And that's where we're at. This opinion has now appeared, which we obviously give the same firmness and credibility as we give to those who appointed the members of that council. In short, you want Antonio, Lluís, Eva, Laia, Fernando, Roger, that is, all Catalans, to pay your debts. That's what you're looking for, let's all pay for your misdeeds; let's pay for what you've wasted and used fraudulently with everyone's money – 10_million_euros. Spanish steals from us? No, separatists rob us. [[Some applause.]] You have marked what veterans will understand: a Lola Flores. Lola Flores was very nice and nice, and there in the eighties, when Hacienda claimed 40_million_of_pesetas, she said: « The Spaniards are 40_million people. If every Spaniard pays me a peseta, my problems with the Treasury are over. Look, he was even nice and funny. Obviously, it didn't happen; no Spaniard gave her a peseta, which was a donation, and no one wanted to pay that tax fine that she alone had contracted. Well, you're forcing all Catalans to make a Lola Flores. I'm not that nice. And he's not nice, because they've embezzled Catalan money. And with a decree law they want us to force all Catalans to pay their sanctions and their fines. And, as you will understand, this isn't nice or fun like Lola Flores. Look, you guys talk about backing up, and that backing up isn't giving up. And to endorse is to dispose, is to dispose of the property. If not, you are asked to the Property Registry or banking entities, whether you can endorse what is not yours. They're backing, with everyone's money, some particular things, because that's the ultimate goal of that fund. And he says they'll pay him when they're finally convicted. We'll see about that. You'll have to see it, because it's not the first time they've betrayed their words. But what is not thoughtable or questionable – and is already happening – is that the amount destined to the bottom, those 10_million_euros of all Catalans, will be for thirty_and_four people, high offices, and to cover their trophies. That is, that every Catalan we will put out of our pocket 1,4_euros to help thirty-four corrupt separatists. Separatism robs us. And those 10_millions won't go to emergency issues. They could equip those for these social claims that they claim to have, but which rarely lead to practice, which is to help people who have difficulty paying for their light receipts, at the time of the health, economic and social crisis that we are living and that the light has risen so much. Or help those people who have trouble taking care of their rental receipt or mortgage receipt. That could be spent on those 10_million_euros and not on their trophies and falsehoods. For all this, we announce to you what can be assumed: our vote against this decree law. And we remind them of our judicial measures, which have consisted of: complaint to the prosecutor's office, complaint to the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia and an appeal to the Constitutional Court, which is, Mr. Giró, the one that really validates the constitutionality or not of a decree law..., and not a board of statutory guarantees. The complaint will be addressed to the signatories of the decree by prevarication and embezzlement. By prevarication, by making resolutions knowingly that they are unfair, because they design a fund tailored to those involved in irregular expenses for the separatist project, because they do so as a matter of urgency because of the imminent embargo on particular property of those separatist leaders themselves. And misappropriation of public revenues, which is an aggravated modality of misappropriation, because they want to endorse the responsibilities of some politicians, a few politicians, on account of the budgets of all. In other words, to allocate public money for particular interests, that is to misrepresent; in this case, the interests of those prosecuted by the Court of Auditors. Mr. Turned, answer a small note of these allusions made by our parliamentary group. Only banana republics bother the courts. Ladies and gentlemen, you are on time. Vote no to this decree law. Don't steal any more money from Catalans and, of course, much less for their rupturist project. Thank you very much, good evening and good evening. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.118.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.119.0	Thank you, President. Good evening. In fact, today we are here because there are people persecuted for a court that they are required to cover with their own good and property their compliment of the status mark on behalf of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and not as whimsical or personal distraction. And they have to do it at the risk of lasting them into family ruin. The Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of Autonomy in force, the Statute of the Constitutional Court in force, the Statute of the Constitutional Court, has neither more nor less than divided articles relating to the external action of the Generality, the legal framework of which has developed the institutional action currently pursued by the Court of Auditors; from the attention to the Catalan communities abroad, the creation of offices abroad, the signature of international treaties, the signature of treaties, the Treaties, the presence at UNESCO, the International projection of cultural and sports social organizations, and sports organizations, and, if they hide their affiliation to entities. But it's more, we're talking about the Court of Auditors, an organ with the name of court, although it's not, since it doesn't belong to the judiciary and where most of the vowels aren't magistrates. And as Carod Rovira recalled a few days ago in an article, some of the surnames represent the best of each house. Mariscal de Gante, exministrate of Justicia d'Aznar, daughter of Mariscal de Gante, who judged year 67 the councillor Mas-Colell ; fifty-seven years later he finds himself there again. They are the ones who filed the sale to a back fund of thousands of social floors by the mayor of Madrid, Ana Botella, among whom, brother-in-law Manuel Aznar – all remains at home– ; the vocal in charge of following the expenses of the autonomous governments is neither more nor less than a military. Court of Auditors with members of all the lapses, together with the General Council of the Judiciary, an exponent of what is actually lapsed; the squandering of his notion of Spain, his notion of democracy and his notion of the state of law. And it is that we are here because the name of the 78's rule is immersed in a crisis of legitimacy, which if it is not translated into an institutional crisis of lost power, it is not able to respond to the needs of the people who live there. The modification of the Spanish Constitution in full August 2015 to incorporate Article 135, which ensures the payment of public debt to bank creditors over public services; the systemic denial of the right to self-determination in Catalonia for a unit of Spain based exclusively on the values of franchising; the lack of guarantee of the right to housing during the covid-19 pandemic because the employers of the real estate and speculation are refusing to lose benefits; the payment of thousands of millions of euros to private sanitation in full covid-19, despite the scarcity of resources, because the employers of the real estate and private clinics are refusing to attend to the citizenry without economic counter-performance, or the clear examples of judicial decisions that are criminally opposed. To the Catalan countries, a good part of the potential of independence is explained by the ability to offer an alternative to the possible future, even though at the moment it has been impossible for repression. The struggle for sovereignty is, above all, a conflict for the conquest of a right to collect, to self-determine, that is to say, to be acquittal and advance of the rest of the rights. Sovereignty, we want to understand it above all as a collective and democratic tool before the illegitimate powers constituted by IBEX 35 and those who make them butlers. To speak today of the fundamental rights to the Catalan countries goes on to solve the central and profound question of sovereignty, expressed by means of the right to self-determination, but also, indestribably, to put on hold the repression of resistance against institutions that do not prevent the exercise. That is to say, we can hardly recognize a full-fledged _marc of a system of phonenal rights while the right to self-determination is not respected, it has not been held to repression and it has not been repaired all the violations of rights caused by state violence. And it is that, like most institutions and states of the world, the Spanish state apparatus is also a number of constant relationships of horizontal and vertical power, but with a particular characteristic derived from post-feixism: it is secreted by the right and Spanish nationalism. And so it is explained that the responses of this regime to the Catalan requests have been repeatedly negative and judicial: the judgment of the Constitutional Court in 2010, which extended the Statute of the referendum for the Catalan people; the repression against the consultation of November 9, 2014; the police violence against the referendum of October 1, 2017; the judgment of the trial to the institutional and presidents of the NAC; the massive repression for the protests of the feelings; the activation of a table of dialogue that denies the exercise of self-determination because it is a constitutional limit, or the persecution that we see today, economics, of functioning and public power to do their work. But here, today, in giving an answer to this, the government has gone late. It's been months since we knew this was gonna happen, but it's been a long time to get here. And we won't say that the ICF is at risk; we'll say that they do what they do and that, in time, we may have escaped more than one case and case and family. And, as we said before, it does what it does because there are competitions for external action. But, as we say, they're late. How many months have we known this point was coming? The lack of anti-repressive strategy is evident once again, and before the nine threats and thousands of people retaliated, a strategy based on unity and unconditional support for retaliated persons, a legal strategy that incorporates the political perspective and high doses of internationalization, is essential. And, finally, what we won't say is that we are surprised by the private bank's response, because we can say that the only objective of the traditional bank is to maximize the short-term benefits for its shareholders, even if in order to do so they have to take measures that are against the general interest. And that is why we do not want to end up without remembering that we have a bank that you put in order to finance those sectors that are considered strategic for the common good of the Public Administration, although it supposes a return of the investment to the long term, because, in fact, a good part of these projects do not have a head today in the private bank; a bank that prioritizes the real, sustainable and staggered economy, staggered to the territory in front of speculative investments, with the reduction of the risk of bank failure that it entails; a bank that is able to channel the economy of businesses and families into a real economy and connected to the territory; a bank that serves as an anticyclical element, above all to address the lack of growth in the productive and reproductive economy in periods of recession privilege; a bank that provides finance to the public administration. And here is not enough to get a file that only authorizes the ICF to act as a public bank of reversal. It is necessary to create a public bank that has the same tools as the banking entities that conform to the oligopoly finance in Catalonia. Today, we support this decree because we understand that it is the duty, long ago, of the Government of the Generality. But here we also encourage the government to put its hands on the work to actually create a bank to serve the general interest as it happens here today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.120.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.121.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies... Why are we here today? So today we are because we also come from years and years when the only response to the Catalan conflict was judicialization and persecution and repression on the part of the People's Party. We are also here, because since there has been a change of stage in the government of the State, we have been able to initiate a process of approach, dialogue and close to political solutions, which, moreover, one of the first steps, and which we have seen and which is very important, there have been pardons, because with the freedom of prisoners and political pressures it is the only way to move forward with this dialogue and with these solutions. Because there is a table of dialog that, although there is someone who weighs it, it will stand in the way, it will go forward, it will be able to listen, it will be able to speak, it will have a willingness to find solutions and it will have a willingness to find agreements. And we believe that it will finally yield results and come to an agreement that can be ratified for the citizens of Catalonia. And because the People's Party doesn't support this. I can't stand it, I can't resist it. They can't bear the fact that they're unlocking a situation that they've put so much effort and so many mechanisms into it because it's blocked. Neither the People's Party nor, obviously, its members of the « Trifachito de Colón. And that's why they're trying to use all the organs and all the political courts they have to break this new stage of the dialog. And the example of the Court of Auditors is not a_me; as has also been the signature-gathering campaign, which has failed dramatically, against the pardons and which they have had to withdraw, because it is no longer the time of the blockade, it is the time of the unlocking and of the solutions. We continue to have a judicial system that is completely blocked, that the People's Party opposes its release, because it wants to continue to control the General Council of the Judiciary, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the Court of Auditors, because they do not want to win the ballots to keep it to the judiciary of the State; some judicial powers that from Europe itself have put themselves in question their independence, as has passed with a report from the European Court of Auditors, which clearly said that there were many doubts about the impartiality of the Spanish Court of Auditors. We are here, we are debating this decree because it is a response from the Government of the Government of Catalonia to respond to this situation of persecution of these people who have exercised the external action of the Government of Catalonia. We have a tribunal of accounts that is pursuing techniques and policies that exercised the powers of the Government of Catalonia to do external action. And, look, I'm with Mr. Mas-Colell, so I certainly don't agree with people, I don't like what he did when he was a counselor, he was one of the artifices of retail. We stood up and confronted each other. But that doesn't make what he's doing at the time not what he was supposed to do as an Economy Advisor. That with Mr. Albert Royo, I certainly don't share much of the focus of external action that Mr. Albert Royo has, I did a different policy of external action than he did. But that doesn't mean he was exercising his skills in the carrec. And that what is being done now is a political persecution on the part of an organ that, it has been said, is not satisfied by judgements for much that is said to be court. The Court of Auditors is a new attempt to put stones in the dialog and in the finding of solutions, to move towards solutions. And it will be a new attempt that will also fail, because we will continue to advance towards these solutions. A tribunal of accounts, which has also been said, where seven of the eleven councillors are "friends of the People's Party", where there has never been a president who was not posed for the People's Party, where there are relatives of representatives of the People's Party; a tribunal of accounts which has zero reliability and guarantees of its impartiality. That's why we..., it's been a long time since 2017, that it has already presented to Congress an initiative just to depoliticize the Court of Auditors, because we need a court of accounts that can really be guarantor, that can exercise its functions, some functions that are very important, because they are the controls of public accounts and that you will function and public authorities exercise with correctness and from respect to institutions and transparency and with good use of public resources. But it is not the case, it is not this Court of Auditors, and what we are living and what we are debating today demonstrates. We also need to move forward with the depoliticization of the Court of Auditors, and this is a job to be done in the Congress of Deputies and Deputies, and hence our group's commitment to moving towards this. And now we're going to talk a little bit about the concrete decree, the decree that is today's gateway to validation, which is the decree referring to the endorsements of the supplementary fund of risk. We believe that it is a foundation that is legally viable and that above all, as it was proposed at an early stage, as a system of endorsements..., we have seen the advice of the Council of State Guarantees, which we have all been waiting for watching the clock, I think, because we hoped that we could end this debate, this vote, and that we could end the later plenary of this session. The opinion has come to endorse its form and background. It is true that he has made some recommendations that we believe should be incorporated. That's why we were also asking – and in this case, the same counselor said it – and we will vote in favour of processing as a bill of law. We are grateful that there is also a willingness to incorporate these suggestions and proposals for improvement made by the Board of State Guarantees. So, we understand what happened, we understand why it happened, we understand when it happened; we didn't just like how it happened. We did not just like how it was done and how this could affect the Catalan Institute of Finance, an institution that since 1985 has demonstrated its ability to work for the development of the economy, to strengthen the economy, to strengthen the credit capacity of the Government of the Government of Catalonia; an institution that was at the basis of the proposal to create a public bank in this legislature, as was precisely agreed by the Government..., well, which Esquerra Republicana signed with the CUP. And we believe that this is now being compromised. It is compromised because the procedure did not go well, because the Board of Governors of the Catalan Institute of Finance had a lot of problems to endorse the participation and that the institution gave the endorsement that was being asked of it. In fact, with the statutes in hand, the vote certainly does not fit, precisely because it is demanded that there be a majority of independent advisors, and, in this case, those who gave it support and decanted the balance were the three political responsibilities posed for the government. Therefore, we believe that this decree and the linkage and how it affects the Catalan Institute of Finance..., is one of the things that did not please us as it did. It is true that it is also a mechanism that can generate doubts as to how it can be used, in the hands of seconds who. And this I think is something that we have to put on the table, that in the hands of people like Mrs. Ayuso..., we don't know what I could do, with a mechanism like this. So, it's true that we have some preventions about how this can end up being used. We understand that you do what you did and why you did it and when you did it, and that's why we will abstain from voting on this decree. And we'll wait for your processing so we can do the best we need. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.122.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.123.0	Thank you, President. The representatives of the Catalans who vote 'yes' to this decree are voting 'yes' to have the money of all Catalans stolen with impunity in the future. And I'm going to explain why we voted against this decree by Ciutadans, and I'm also going to explain why we denounced the ICF leaders and also against the Government of the Generalitat, because it seems that Mr. Giró doesn't understand very well what the mechanisms of a rule of law are. Although the Board of Statutory Guarantees has validated this decree..., a Board of Statutory Guarantees – everything has to be said – set up by Torra after the failures that throughout the process, resolutions contrary to the interests of independence..., was configured..., new people were appointed. You did not pay any attention to the Council for Statutory Guarantees in your decisions against the proceedings. We do respect the content regarding the apparently constitutionality and the statutoryity of the content of the laws, because that is the role of the Guarantee Board, but it is also true that the reports are not binding. And they're not for you, but neither are they for us. Obviously, the judicial process is open; I'm sorry, Mr. Giró, but the judicial process is open. We believe that the courts are going to call this decree a predator and an embezzler, and, in short, a criminal. I have never wondered if docking a bank is constitutional and statutory, but I believe that a docking is a crime, and that must be said by the courts. We have denounced the managers of the ICF because the money available in the ICF is to help the economic growth, the autonomous, the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now having a very bad time, with the crisis of the covid. It is to promote the economy, to create wealth, to create jobs, to make good wages; that is the mission of public money used by the managers of the ICF. And the manager's duty is to make sure that money goes for it, because they administer it for it. It is not in the social object of the ICF to give bail to natural persons. And I understand that many of the current politicians and also the Government of the Generalitat have never worked outside of politics, but you, Mr Giró, have, and I think you could explain to your colleagues what happens when in a trading society the governing bodies make agreements that are not the object of the social object. Do you know what's going on? That the shareholders tell them: "But where are you going, manager, putting money into something that is not proper to the company's social object, for what we have put the money here? And you know it very well, you know it very well because you've worked on it. What happens is that it seems that when you get to politics, there are those who think that you are covered with a layer of immunity, that what is valid in the private world is no longer valid in the public sphere. And it seems that the shareholders of a trading society do have the right to demand, but citizens do not seem to be able to ask you for explanations of what you do with your money. I, Mr. Giró, may anyone not understand it, I can understand it, but may you not understand it..., that I do not believe. So, for us... We ask ourselves a question: if you, Mr. Giró, and Mr. Aragonès and the gentlemen of the Government of the Generalitat believe that you use the money of all Catalans, that you should go to create wealth and employment and that people will pay your salary..., if you think you should go to secure for free, off-market, absolutely in off-market conditions..., free, give free, free and love to some gentlemen a money against the law, and being these people who stole the money from all Catalans. And besides, there is not a single private financial institution that wants to endorse them. Those responsible for the ICF Governing Board who voted favourably on these agreements are being investigated by the prosecution at the request of Ciutadans. I'm sure they'll end up responding to justice for this abuse. And I also thank the three wise members of the ICF who voted against that money that should go to create jobs, wages and wealth will protect Arthur Mas's pocket and others' pocket, because I also believe that that should be appreciated. And say to them, "You are not alone, loyal and decent leaders, those who take care of the real money, for what it has to go for. You are not alone; we too will vote like you today against this shame. And this also brings me to the topic of fear, Mr. Giró. « Exercise politics with fear, you say; « officials with fear. Look, I don't want the officials to work with fear, Mr Giró, Mrs Borràs; I don't want the mossos to be afraid of what's going to happen to their political leaders; I don't want prison officials to be afraid of doing their job too; I don't want the teachers to be thinking that ideology is being watched over; I don't want the public servants, the ICF servers, to think what consequences if they don't bow to the nationalist mainstream; I don't want any public servants to be afraid to do their duty in Catalonia. And yes, Mr. Giró, I want the politicians and public servants who collaborate with them, with these politicians who twist the law, participate in illegalities and make it easier for the powerful to do whatever they want with everyone's money..., I want them to fear for the consequences of their actions. And I want it on behalf of all the citizens, of absolutely all: of the elderly living in the residences, of the dependents who are still on waiting lists, of the health users who have been waiting for months for attention, of people who do not have a decent home and wait unsuccessfully for the Generalitat to put floors and public ground in social rentals... I want those who plunder public money to be afraid to do so; I want twenty-three per cent of people on the poverty line, who have trouble paying their rent or mortgage or supplies or filling the fridge, to think that the money that is not there for them..., that there is because you do not spend it on fixing the pocket of Mr. Mas or other politicians who have kicked the money of these people who do need it. There is no such money because there are irresponsible rulers who spend it and steal it from those who really need it. And it is a shame that certainly populist parties like Podemos or intransigent revolutionaries like the CUP, who say they are on the left, sacrifice the weakest on the altar of the powerful leaders of the process, who seek impunity for their pockets. Before extreme nationalists than from the extreme left, that is so, but it is a greater shame if it is possible, Mrs Romero – I see that Mr Illa today has hidden and has not come – that you, the Catalan Socialists, have been so lukewarm defending from this abuse to your fellow citizens for political convenience, coming to say that you saw this decree very legal, posing a consultation to the Council of Guarantees Statutàries by dragging the feet and a content of pa sucat amb oli, to end up announcing that you would support this decree if the Council validated it and announcing here your abstention. You didn't say in the campaign that you were going to pardon the perpetrators of the coup, but neither did you say in the campaign that you were going to forgive them even the money they stole from us. It's a shame, Mrs. Romero. It's a shame. [[some applause]] that we cannot also count on the Government of Spain because Pedro Sánchez prefers to guarantee the support of those who are abusing power in Catalonia to keep themselves in the Moncloa. Before being brave, before fulfilling his duty, before setting the limits to those who are dispossessed of their property, Mr. Sánchez turns his face on them. But, look, we're the ones from Ciutadans, who were born in adversity and who are used to going up the opposite streams of the river like the salmon. [[relays]] , and we will be here for you to respect democracy and all Catalans. Look, we'll report you to the prosecution and we'll take you to the High Court of Justice in Catalonia. And I promise you, I promise you here, that if those millions of euros come out of the public coffers to cover the responsibilities of these people, you will end up on the bench of the defendants. We'll take care of it. And I'm done. When a political regime is believed that, even with support from Governments and through political pressure, it can steal in the eyes of all with light and stenographers by decree, against logic, reason, decency and democracy, that regime is condemned. He will be sentenced in court, but also by citizens and, of course, by history. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.124.0	Then, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.125.0	Thank you very much, President. We are witnessing a new episode of the separatist process these days. The episodes of the separatist process can be classified into three categories: the comics and delirious, that starred above all Quim Torra; the illegal and dangerous for coexistence, that unfortunately are the majority and of infamous memory for all and that we all have in our heads, and then there are the trichinets, the shortcuts, the subterfuges, those that you group under the heading of « the master games, which is the case that occupies us. Today we witness a new attempt at a master's play. It should be said that all his master plays always end up as the rosary of the dawn, and this will be no exception. And it is that you are, to your regret, faithful depositaries of the Spanish tradition of picaresca: you behave like modern lazarillos, who are making small holes in the botjo, believing you are the smartest in the world, until the botjo falls on their heads, and then everything is lamentable and weepy. Now it turns out that, after demeaning and insulting the State Guarantee Board over the past five years, they claim it to whitewash their new illegal cunning. We will not do the same on the other hand, especially remembering that the Council of Guarantees Statutàries defended legality on 6 and 7 September, remembering that you had made a blow to democracy. But it is also that one thing is the instrument, a fund of risk, which is what the council refers to, with some severe and relevant corrections, but another very different for what you intend to use it for. In their case, not to cover future risks, but to pay for past crimes; not to protect all the officials of the Generalitat, but to pay the feast to thirty-four specific people. And here will be the illegality – not today – when they do that. And they will certainly commit it. And hence the problems that you have between you, and hence the problems that you have experienced at the Institut Català de Financi, who know perfectly well that today is one thing, but that what you will do next is where the illegality will be. They know perfectly well, and they know that what they're doing is totally illegal. Mr.Jaume Giró turns this issue into a small Spanish 2.0, but adds to his political action the inspiration of another legendary figure in our collective cultural and imaginary collection: the tripler of the Ramblas that hides the ball from you while – yes – he shows you the best of his smiles and tries to glue it to you. Because in the end what you do here today is the following: putting public institutions and resources at the service of alleged embezzlers. As the resistance box no longer served them, because it was voluntary and no one wanted to pay more, they now claim that all Catalans pay for their party. And that's where we're not going – that's where we're not going – and it's important to make it clear. Two: commit an embezzlement of the embezzlement. As he pointed out a moment ago, the decree does not protect civil servants from future risks, but rather launders past crimes with everyone's money. It is as if an uninsured driver caused a serious accident and all Catalans had to take charge and cover that irresponsibility and recklessness of their own pocket. And three: you are forcing the Institut Català de Financiers to push – because it went push – to create a 10_million_euro fund waiting for some private bank to fall into the trap. And here lies the law fraud. So much so, that of the fraud of law, that last July 20 Mr. Jaume Giró had to recognize, in spite of him, that his legendary ability to seduce also had limits: not one private bank, not one – nor the Caixa d'Enginyers, always so lends to these moves, that it has merit, the thing –, wanted to get into his drunkard. Not one. This time, Mr. Giró, he was caught in the ball and he couldn't do trilero as he's used to. From here, then, we know: since it is tradition in the house, the war began between you; first, not, after that, cross accusations of « traitors, « cowards and « botiflers everywhere, and a dangerous and absolutely immoral flight forward. Dismissals at the Institut Català de Financi, tensions between officials who feel and declare themselves unprotected and who denounce unworthy pressures of a rule of law. By the way, pressures exerted by you; not by anyone of the so-called perfidious Madrid, as you like to elucidate, but by you. And that's where they should be ashamed of themselves, for putting public officials on that line. For if all this were as legal as you claim today, no one would have resigned; for if all this were so ethical, you would not be killing each other – worth the redundancy – with such virulence. This is a story that we have already experienced, that we have lived it in recent years and that, paraphrasing Gil de Biedma, is a story that always ends badly. In short, we will not endorse either their cunning or their mastery or their claim that all Catalans will pay for their crimes. We will vote against the decree that they present today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.126.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Elsa Artadi has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.127.0	Good evening. Thank you, President. Councillors of the Government, deputies, deputies and, most especially, Councillor Giró, thanks for the work and thanks for the dignity of his speech. [[Greetings.]] I can't start in any other way – and I know you've already done it this morning – giving support to President Torrent, Vice President Costa and the secretaries of the previous Bureau, Eusebi Campdepadrós and Adriana Delgado, persecuted to allow debate, to allow the right to self-determination to vote in this Parliament, to allow debate and vote on the reprobable conduct of the Spanish king. It is a clear violation of your phone rights, of the inviolability to which you have right as members of this chamber – just like all of you – and when there is no precedent in a real and consolidated democracy in which you are persecuted by deputies and deputies for the pocket they make in the chamber, for the pocket they make in your Parliament. Because the separation of powers, the separation of powers that many possess in your mouth at the hour of not criticizing aberrant feelings of Spanish injustice, is based on this, in which the criminal courts have no jurisdiction over what we are debating in this Parliament. It's one of the basic pillars of democracy. It seems that often, too often, we are oblivious. And that is why this persecution of the former Bureau, the current Bureau, of so many members of this Parliament, for the work we do, is a democratic aberration. And we do not cease to surprise 'instantly today' – and some of us want to insist on it, because we do not want to give up –... we do not cease to surprise ourselves that the Party of Socialists of Salvador Illa – which is certainly late not to accompany us – does not claim such basic elements of democracy and sovereignty in a statement that, I quote in text, says: "The Parliament of Catalonia reaffirms its commitment to freedom of expression and freedom of debate in the Parliament of Catalonia. The Catalonian Parliament claims to be an area of free debate and is committed to guaranteeing the right of Members and Members to debate without censorship protected by inviolability for votes and opinions. That's what you didn't want to sign. And it seemed to me that we could do this before, maybe a little long, because too often and too long ago we are forced to get out of what is the strict debate of the subject we are carrying, of the rule we want to approve, in order to contextualize the interest, the need and the urgency of what we want to approve. Because if this decree were a normal law, if this was a normal parliament, if we were in a normal country, we would now be having a more or less technical debate about the rights of public servants, about this right to compensation that we have all known; we would be looking at the insurance policies that the Generality has: that they are missing, that they are missing to get these rights, that it is the best way and the best mechanism and the financial implications that they have. And this would be a normal debate. But today we follow along with this normality. And the debate that we have today, and the debates that I hope we can continue to have, the thanks also to a Speaker of the Parliament and a _table of the Parliament who are making it clear that they did not tolerate any anti-democratic interference in this house. Also, today, thank you to all of them. Because today's debate was not just about the law, we are already seeing it; it went from repression, from the persecution of the Spanish State to Catalan independence, and also from how we deal with anti-repressive measures. And that's why we want to thank the councilman for turning his determination to push forward this decree and his determination to do what it is just to take a step further in trying to follow politics in Catalonia. What the Court of Auditors is doing in this political persecution of thirty-four families – thirty-four families – basically the objective it has is that the Government of Catalonia should stop acting outside, that you are silent – above all, Councillor Alsina –, which you no longer bother. And it's a desperate and immoral attitude enough to feel humiliated and the reputation loss they're having, the ridiculousness they're making at the international level. But this has nothing to do with independence, this is not about independence, to see if they're working their eyes at once. The result of this is how many leaders of civil society to deconvoke a peaceful demonstration, when the President of Parliament to allow a debate to take place, or when you pursue a democratically elected government because they have allowed people to vote. That and so many other aberrations that are affecting more than 3,300 people in Catalonia. That's what ridiculous does. And now they're thinking – because they've never been inside, either today or 2011 or before, and still don't hear re – that to generate and continue generating this by the problem disappears. But the problem is not independence, the problem is not the will of the Catalan nation to decide its future; the problem is to have a Spanish state that is authoritarian and that is undemocratic. And before that we must continue to act as today's, with which we do not only have to defend ourselves, but we must continue to denounce and continue to carry forward international justice..., and we must continue to fight, just as Vice-President Costa does when he brings to the United Nations the cause of the violation of the rights of Members– of all Members–, just as the elected MEPs did, and what they achieved– in his case, President Puigdemont, Consister Ponsati and Comín – to be thanks to the EUJEU, and as will be the case of political prisoners when they arrive in Strasbourg. It's the same as this Court of Auditors attack, the same one before these families. But in the meantime we also need to stay old, and we certainly need to make more efforts, and we certainly need to do better. But in this case, what you're trying to do is get old for those thirty-four people that the Spanish State has decided to ruin and destroy their lives. Because the Court of Auditors – that 2019 has already made a report on which this millionaire of thirty-four people is now supported – is full of anomalies, is full of infringements of the legislation, contradicts the doctrine of the same TJEU, the expenses supposed to be unduly justified are with press notes, has not been submitted any allegations... This Court of Auditors, which is neither a court nor a nepotism scandal, is now, during the provisional liquidation, also a glaring information. And before that, we are still asking, to those who might still have hope, if you really can be quiet, the Socialist Party, before this $5.4 million to thirty-four families, many of whom you know, because they were working for a government that had a plan of government that was known, and that was never recognized; that we came from elections in which independence had won with known and recognized electoral programs. We do not understand that you may seem right that the Court of Auditors should be able to decide what can and cannot be done by the Government of Catalonia based on the ideology of the parties that are in government. Because the whole cause is based on the justification that in external action it was talking about the political current of Catalonia and the independent position of the Catalan Government. I'd just miss it! But what kind of cynicism is this? Or is it that the members of the Spanish Government and the Spanish diplomatic representatives have not been defending unionist positions in international forums entitled on the sovereignist process? They didn't do it? Or what, that you can go to international forums, you can do foreign politics and talk about the situation that happens in Catalonia if you defend unionism, but not if you defend independence? [[Some applause.]] Because it would seem that you can only go and talk about what pleases the Court of Auditors. But if that's the way it is, it's the very definition of "political persecution," you make it very clear. Why, if not, where is the Court of Auditors, stalking and investigating the people of Global Spain, who have dedicated themselves, precisely, to doing this in a bold way? Surely they are investigating it with so much diligence and at the expense of..., as they investigated the Banc d'Espanya of Mariano Rubio, the Civil Guard of Luis Roldán, the case Noos, the case Gürtel, the project Castor of Florentino Pérez, the radial highways of Madrid, the deviations of the AVE, etcetera. The sure they're chasing and investigating as hard and as enthusiastically Spain Global as the opaque accounts of the Spanish emeritus. I'm done. And around addressing the Socialist Party – because its complicity is also happening – Mr Illa, who is not there, but, if not, I am addressing the rest of the Members: do you really believe that Andreu Mas-Colell has to pay 2,950,980_euros? I did work with him, and everybody knows it, from the first day of 2011 to the last day of 2015. You never raised a cell – and if you don't, go look for the session diary –..., you never raised a cell about foreign policy that is ugly at that time. More. [[Some applause.]] Today he is persecuting himself because the U of October we made a reference, because the U of October we voted and because the U of October we won. And that's why he's chasing him today. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.128.0	I finally have the word Mrs Marta Vilalta, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.129.0	Thank you very much, President. Good evening, deputies, councillors, councillors. I'm starting with a previa, because if it was 15 years ago that the Government of the Generality had brought a similar decree to the Parliament, it would probably have passed as a deal more. And it's that the decree we pass today is relatively simple and legally not controversial. And, therefore, what is unaudited is the context in which this decree will be approved by law, a context of repression and law enforcement against the Government of the Generality, which today makes this decree essential – that is, the foundation that creates this decree by law is essential – to guarantee the normal functioning of the Generality of Catalonia, that is, to be able to take political action with calmness. I explain myself: this decree creates this Supplementary Risk Fund to meet the legal obligations that may be claimed from public workers in a judicial or administrative process for actions carried out in the exercise of their functions and which are not covered by the insurance policies currently contracted by the Generality. And this is necessary precisely to guarantee and protect this right of compensation for the persons affected in the exercise of their functions, even if there is no judicial pronouncement that you declare with firm character their disciplinary responsibility or accounting or criminal responsibility. Therefore, this decree is absolutely necessary, because the public server may be adversely affected by the exercise of its competences. It's that simple. And that's what the government does with this decree. In fact, I would say, Mr Carrizosa, that the crime would be not to do it, not to do this decree, not to defend public servants. It is not only necessary, but it is also urgent, because they have already seen the situation of vulnerability in which the affected persons have been found and accused of having misused the resources allocated to be able to make policies of external action by the Generality of Catalonia between the years 2011 and 2017: some thirty-four people, including President Puigdemont, Vice-President Junqueras, Councillor Mas-Colell, also Councillor Romeva, Albert Carreras, Aleix Villatoro, the Secretary of the Diplomat – Albert Royo – or the agent of the Generality, without going further than one–Miraia Vidal –, to which up to 5,4_million euros in finance are claimed in days, and therefore, in a situation of defence. Because actually what these people have done is they've done their work, and the background, precisely, has also felt for situations like these. That is why, because it is necessary and because it is urgent, we will support this law decree. And we also want to express our gratitude to the Government for doing so; specifically and especially for having done so, to Councillor Giró, and also to the entire team of the ICF – the Catalan Institute of Finance – among which also its president, Albert Castellanos. As I was saying, we're giving support to this decree. And, in addition, we will do so with more arguments after the opinion, after the favourable report of the Council of State Guarantees that we have just met, and which makes it clear, unanimously – and this should be remembered and claimed – that the Generality is empowered to create an instrument for the protection of its public servants – as is the essence of this decree – that this decree is also fully legal and constitutional. And, in relation to the end of the six-year period, we share, therefore, the compromise, which the Government has also made explicit, of being able to make the relevant changes to improve the regulatory quality, and, therefore, which can be dealt with as the draft law. And let me make a reference to the Catalan Institute of Finance, which these days is in the wake of the hurricane. The ICF is an example of rigour and an example of good work. To be a bank intended to finance only the debt of the Generality and the public sector, it has become a banking entity with a diversified portfolio focused on promoting patient capital to strategic projects in the country, to promote enterprise as well, to promote innovation; an economic promotion bank comparable to any other institution in some other country, to similar institutions in Europe. And that's what today is the ICF and what we want you to keep feeling. And, therefore, we will work to follow the steps because it is consolidated and because it is also the public bank of our country. I return to the context that we live in Catalonia, because without this context it is not possible to hear what we are debating today, it would not be understood. And, therefore, it cannot be obviated that this context is the repressive drift of the State, with which it has responded before the majority will, before the social consensus of our country, to want to self-determine us, to want to decide our future collection. The only answer we have found on the part of the State in the last few years before the majority in our country has been repression and judicial and police persecution: political prisoners, exiles and political exiles, people facing judicial proceedings; hundreds... thousands of people prosecuted for the mere fact of being independent. And now also economic repression; the last to sign up for the festival of repression is the Court of Auditors – I will refer to it. But, precisely, and before this decree, what it does is fight this repression, this repression for the simple fact of being independent, we have already seen as the political arm of the extreme judicial right – Popular Party, Citizens and VOX – has already presented or announced that it will present lawsuits and legal actions to pursue this decree. Because they don't know how to do anything else that doesn't continue to prosecute and threaten us through the courts – they don't know how to do anything else. And, of course, as the prosecution normally "finishes it for you, so it has admitted these quarrels against the decree and it has begun to investigate what is known from everyone, that these people simply did what they were looking for for for their functions, that is, an ordinary action by the members of the Generality of Catalonia. And that's what we're talking about: an ordinary action by the Government of Catalonia. What is being questioned here is a legal foundation – it has already been absolutely accredited –, created impeccably – it has also been accredited –, which has the endorsement of the State Guarantee Board and which serves to cover bonds imposed on public workers and others for having done what the State of Autonomy says, that is, for having done external action. According to Article 193 of the Statute, among the public policies that the Generalitat may make is the inclusion of external action. Therefore, in this case, the thirty-four people affected by these million-dollar bonds... the court is not taxing. It is not, the Court of Auditors, auditing or carrying out an accounting investigation of this expenditure of the Generality; what is being done is a subsequent reclassification of expenditure in the light of its political orientation. And that also denounces my own opinion of the Board of State Guarantees that we have known about this late. It says, literally: "If there is anyone who acts irregularly, it is the Court of Auditors, which, as it is recalled in this opinion, has a function that is not punitive, but rather of bailing out the damaged Administration. Therefore, the 9-N sentiments at the time, the relations with the external action that they also occupy us today, have a clearly punitive nature: they were done to pursue, in revenge mode, the public servants of our country, and they want to rob a personal patrimony to cover some ordinary and legal expenses of the Generality in favor of a supposed ransom that no one is claiming. And that can't be overshadowed. Because what harms our institutions, Mrs Romero, or what we cannot accept, Mr Fernández, is that the public authorities and workers of our country do the work under threat, which is what is going on, what has passed the last years and what is going on; that they do the work, the public servants of our country – workers or other people – under the constant threat of judicial persecution. The objective of the Court of Auditors is to stifle the political action of the Government of the Generality. If not, how could the Generality's spending on external action be legal in 2017 to assume, in execution, to pass the intervention filter? When did the Ministry of Heritage, even at that time, which was in control, review these expenses retrospectively? When did the Accountant also do a tax and not observe any illegality? But, in change, they are now illegal. How do you feel about that? Few institutions illustrate both the decadence of the 78's regime and the Court of Auditors: opaque, patrimonialized, secreted by a conservative majority and a cosmovision directly inherited from the franchise, unable to complete its basic function. Characterized by nepotism, the Court of Auditors is an administrative body – because it is not judicial – specialising in absolved friends and pursuing political rivals. I can only recall the flagrant cases of the Ana Botella – before it was mentioned – or when the Court of Auditors declared itself unable to find irregularities in the systemic corruption of the People's Party, because they said that this corruption..., this type of investigation was beyond the capacity of the proper court. However, now, with an unheard-of zeal, he discovers, supposedly, millions and millions of misappropriations to the Government of Catalonia. Curious, if not, but very easy to hear: they are incompetent, the Court of Auditors, against the corruption of their friends in the People's Party, but in changing they are the first in the class, they are the protagonists and accomplices at the time of pursuing, in the form of repression, independence. The Court of Auditors, therefore, is generating arbitrariness and defencelessness in a political persecution that only seeks revenge through the economic ruin of innocent families. It's applying por strategy. And this strategy, this activity, is closer to an authoritarian regime than to a European democracy in the 21st century. And we don't just call it ours; we also call it the European Association of Advocates for Democracy or up to thirty-three Nobel Prizes and first-class academics who have given support to Councillor Mas-Colell. I'm done, President. To be honest, if you defend the state, you should be ashamed of yourself, in order to defend this Court of Auditors. That's why we're giving support to the decree issued by the Aragonese Government and Councillor Giró, because it's a legitimate legal solution that also serves against the strategy that pursues us through repression, this economic repression of the judiciary and the Spanish State. And before this offensive, let's not resign, let's defend ourselves with these instruments, with all the instruments we have in the abst, with firmness and with compromises to continue explaining Catalonia to the world, counselor, and with persistence to work for a Catalan republic where there are no courts of accounts that pursue us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-29-1101.130.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. And, in accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall be understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of this Decree and that, on the other hand, the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. So let's vote on the validation of Decree Law 15/2021. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, Decree-Law 15/2021_was ratified, with 74 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 41 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Okay, now, with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law has been ratified, I ask the chamber if there is any parliamentary group that wants to process it as a bill. [[Pause.]] Yeah. Therefore, based on the petitions formulated for the various groups, we will vote now if this valid decree is to be treated as the bill. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, and in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, this decree will be dealt with as draft law, with 127 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. I, without further ado on the order of the day, raise the session.
