ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.1.0	Good morning. We are few, however, if they can take up the seats they have assigned, we will start this session, which is the last plenary session scheduled for this year 2021. And, unfortunately, we'll do it with the narrowing of the hemicicle. This restriction is part of the measures that we announced at the beginning of the week to tackle from the Parliament the worsening of the pandemic situation, which we have already been explaining in the various functions of the chamber. I would like to thank them for all the cooperation they have shown these days; and especially, to the services of Parliament, how they have made it possible for the Parliament of Catalonia to continue to operate despite the pandemic through telematic means, that is, with the normality that it would expect from any parliament in the 21st century. As long as we finish the sessions the same way we started them, without the 135 deputies in the Chamber, I hope and wish that we put an end to this 2021 with all the lessons of this year in relation to the pandemic. It may be especially responsible and extreme caution, because a large part of the game we play against the covid-19 is played by each of us in the particular decisions we make. And, therefore, once again, as responsible and representative of the citizenry that we are, we must be exemplary in the follow-up of the measures and recommendations of the health authorities. We're not only reducing the possibility of more people getting better, but we're also giving support to health personnel, who are practically two years fighting without rest to protect us from the pandemic. We help them and help those who, with their efforts, are protecting us every day. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] And finally, before starting the order of the day, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization for Migration, there were a total of 1859 victims of death and disappearances in the Mediterranean this year 2021, according to what the Parliament's motion 111/XII establishes, about rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies for the gathering of migrants. I would also like to point out that, in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau of 21 December, on measures to prevent the transmission of the virus caused by covid-19, in accordance with the current health conditions, sixty-five Members have delegated their vote for today's plenary session. And, finally, there must have been a small detail in his accounts that I have extended not only to the Members, but also to all the staff of Parliament, to wish them a good Nadal and a happy 2022. I wish we could celebrate these celebrations in order to make the celebration compatible with the respect of the measures, but that we do so with fullness and with salvation, because, despite everything, I still feel Nadal. [[Question to the Government about health and primary care]] [[300-00087/13]] And let's get to the first point of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about health and primary care. It was presented by the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win, and it has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the MP Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.2.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President, and thank you, Counselor, because I know that you are in the process of recovering your voice and that, despite this situation, we will be questioning you at the time you allow it. It's strange to talk about health and primary care in these days without talking about the pandemic. It's impossible. In fact, this question was already planned last week to address also how it was responding to the situation of the pandemic in the Health Department, thinking a lot about primary care, and now take more sense, because weeks ago the primary care warns of saturation. We can't say that it's surprising, or that until last week no one was claiming action, when it's been a long time since primary care staff are warning, warning of saturation and exhaustion. And, in fact, one more time we'll put our focus back on the pandemic or take restrictive measures when it starts to be the hospital attention that alerts. We said a long time ago that we hoped you wouldn't go back to what happened in the fifth wave, and what we see in the earthquake is that this is reproduced. And what we're seeing..., or we're asking this question also because the one that ends up passing or the one that's passed this past year and a half is that there's a delay in the diagnosis of pathologies and illnesses in users that adds to some lists of hope that they already existed and that, therefore, they're even more acute the problems of population salvation, problems of exhaustion of health personnel linked or linked to delays in diagnosis or treatment that make salvation worse or that cause a lot of the population to not understand anything about what's going on. And, at the same time, let's see – we saw 2020 – how it ends up happening is that private sanitation is remembering in the name of patients who reach it. It closed 2020 with more than 11 million patients and a five-per-cent turnover higher than in 2019. It'd be nice to know right now, right? , of which we are talking about the contracting of private mutuals, because very probably, and unfortunately, we saw that it has gone up due to this saturation of the health system. But the problem is that we can't just focus on the pandemic, because the problem goes before, goes from origin, when we hear it. Go from a health care system based on specialist or hospital care. A health system built from the health order law, which it specified, right? , plus, this..., or facilitated this cluster of agreements, agreements, consortia or shared management formulas between public and private entities. This so-called catal model was built with a hospital-centric view, which spoke a lot, despite reforms, of primary care, but which never put primary care at the centre. And it's true, hospitalism is not just a feature of Catalonia, but it's on a global scale. And this is a model in which knowing, knowing and helping to have a better salvation is considered to be in hospitals, in hospital solutions, isn't it? If not, look, at the committee of experts who are created from the Health Department always to address the transformation of the health system, how many experts there are in primary care and how many there are in specialist or hospital care. And that, in fact, already starts in medical and infirmary faculties, doesn't it? Most of the faculty are hospital doctors, and, paradoxically, primary care, which solves eighty percent of the population's health problems, is practically non-existent in the faculties. And, on the other hand, the hospital-centric visit, which conceives salvation from the disease, also generates a much more medicalizing and interventionist medicine, which, moreover, also ends up causing the disease. There's a vision..., or it turns salvation into a consumerist vision, which makes it seem like, like more things in our faith, we take care of ourselves, but we understand that that's not true. In addition, a hospital-centric visit that is instrumental in technology, in many interventions, that faces the whole health system, and, I say again, not necessarily bringing more salvation, and this is the key. This is also the key to what we want to put on the table, how we reverse this and how we transform this health system. And also the question of why it is so, why it has systematically been so. And, in the background, it's because we understand that in the places of power it ends up benefiting who gets economic gain, but not the overall population. And, therefore, we have built for years a health system that places this in the focus and therefore ends up deriving more and more resources from hospital care. And that's why we find chronic problems in primary care, which is not us. Let's talk about overloading the professionals. In fact, on November 2018 the primary care professionals already called for a break, when 2018 we didn't even imagine that we would get to the current pandemic situation. And the Metges union of Catalonia, among others, claimed the recovery of working conditions and the medical staff prior to retailing, limiting the care schedule to a maximum of twenty-four daily visits with a minimum of twelve minutes per visit – now we're talking about eighty, ninety daily visits. And, one year later, Metges de Catalunya, the one who posed on the table was that the agreements that had been made to defuse the vacancy had not been broken, and, at the same time, 2018 was already talking about the need to devote the twenty-i-five percent of the assumption to primary care. But, in addition, we are talking about an oversaturated primary attention in waiting lists. I used to give it to you before they're slowing down diagnostics or treatments because of the saturation of the health care system, but the waiting lists also come from before. That is to say, every year there are about 2 million visits to medical specialties derived from primary care; for all there are waiting lists. And even though in some specialties, depending on the territory, it widens more or less depending on what there is... but these waiting lists are also not realistic, because they are distorted, because they do not include patients who never arrive to wait for the visit. And a few days ago we saw the complaint of many of the professionals, who explained that they can't follow up and that they know that they didn't manage to give time because they have to consult it, because they don't get the warning, and that every time it happens more. So, in the current situation of the covid, what do we see? A hospital center that still gets worse; that you see, as it did at first, how and when they take measures to deal with the pandemic. He went through the various waves, except for the first one, because we understand that the first one for all was a novelty, but then he went through systematically: only when hospitals start to make the warning cry are they taking action. I, then, is only taking restrictive measures, is not taking preventive measures. And that's why we wanted to ask him, in these two years, what measures they have taken to truly transform the health system, and therefore to strengthen primary care. Because what is obvious is that its primary care enhancement plan approved on September 2020 has not yielded results, because we have absolutely exhausted professionals and, at the same time, professionals who are seeing how users do not understand what is going on. And what's causing it is that the Health Department, instead of securing resources to guarantee rights, what makes it easier is the confrontation between users and workers. It's the department's responsibility to ensure that this doesn't happen and explain to the people... to give all the information why the people you see are empty CAPs right now, and it's not that the professionals don't work, but they're doing a lot of invisible work. And it's not the professional's responsibility to explain it beyond the user; it's the department's responsibility. And what we see on the assumptions that are expected to be approved today is that in Chapter 1, primary care, they curiously spend if it doesn't do the same as in pharmacy. And so, we're still... it's, like, chapter one of staff, which is essential to getting primary attention, is if it doesn't do the same thing it's meant for pharmacy. And, therefore, it remains in this logic of a medical or pharmacological medicine. As I said, we are at a dangerous time, we are at a dangerous time when the department is dedicated to delegating responsibilities. And that's why we're setting him an example of what we said last week in the Socialist Party motion, which is the question that you send to primary care users. And then I'll go on. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.3.0	Have the word now, to answer, the greeting counselor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.4.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Mrs Reguant. From this point of view, it has to be recognized that much of the whole preventive care approach during the pandemic and outside the pandemic comes into primary care; if we are talking about pandemic, all that has been done about screening, vaccination– with more than 13_million doses administered–, attention to the case... Therefore, we must aggravate all this effort. Certainly, when they take action, they don't take it because, somehow, we don't take primary care into account, but by the fact – and we also have to leave it..., we have to explain – that it is necessary, in the times we are now – I mean, different from the first moments of the pandemic – when the virus has to replicate. And when a moment goes up where what we saturate is the final part, it's when we really have to start taking action. But all this does not mean that we are not taking action at the primary level. We're taking, for example, all that's phase u, mitigation, phase two... And, therefore, from this point of view, what we do need to do is to appreciate all this effort being made. The primary care has been strengthened; what is happening is that it has also been strengthened, surely, since the pandemic, which is not the best time to strengthen itself, because you are directing all your efforts to a disease alone. But from this point of view, I have to tell you that only primary care has been reinforced with 5,400 professionals: 547 people who correspond to family members, psychologists, pediatricians and odontologists – many fewer than we would like, because a large number of these are the psychologists we have just incorporated –; 1,200 degrees of nursing or social workers; 83 specialist medical technicians – which means radiology, labs...; 993 people who correspond to medical specialists – which in the same day is either TCAI or, more commonly, "infirmary assistants" – and 2,578 administrative people, which at these times are only doing... and each person will be assigned to the master's office. Our goal is to reach a twenty-and-five percent of all primary care care. That's our goal in these early years. And for this, of course, it is necessary to transform the model. And I need to transform the model of attention, which, as you have well explained, is a hospital center. Socially, this model is a hospital center, and it's been for years and years and years. This isn't going on, it's been a while. And that's got to be broken. And it must be broken from a point of view of strength... clearly, strengthen this primary attention. And from this point of view, there's a series of lines that we are ingenious, that are... the stability of the current template. You're the one who doesn't have a coven yet. I still say because I still have a certain hope – sure. If we don't have a coven... let's make it very clear, and then I'll come and explain it... we're missing 1,400_million; I'll explain it, okay? But we still have hope. But, still, we have maintained and stabilized the current template. And this... everyone knows that these five people who have joined are left. The incorporation of new professionals into primary care teams: physiotherapists, dietists who will be incorporating this year 22, occupational therapists, or everything we have already talked about emotional well-being, that you know very well, and psychologists, that these are already incorporating them and we are already carrying almost one hundred and sixty. Assign to the whole citizen a manager or health manager. It's these cove managers we've had and still have, who've turned all this attention they've done into coves into something that's far beyond the cove. Strengthen and renew technologies and information systems. We have an information system that's very good, that's the ECAP, the clinical history. It's really good, because it's something that we've developed our own professionals – that's to say, the functionalities are theirs – but architecturally it's very flowing, and it requires a very important reversal. Either we could say "My Greeting", or you need to start implementing the ECAP to geriatric residencies, to give just a few examples. After that, we'll have to go a little bit, because we can't do it all at once, changing and enhancing infrastructure. Infrastructures have remained... When they are obsolete, they say from the perspective of whether we are incorporating us professional, new functionalities, new ways of delivering citizenship as well; it also requires a different center design. And also, we'll like it better or we'll like it less, there are elements, like, for example, different circuits that we've seen during this pandemic that will have to be maintained. Then, important, too, is this fight against inequality. The inequalities – I have heard many times – are social and economic. So, let's go to the game, that many times we don't think about the game, huh? And we're thinking about putting more girls, more nurses... from that perspective, this is our job, but we have to go to the trap; otherwise, we won't get out of it. The function, obviously, of Salvation will be to put it, and, from this point of view, it will be to put it into account the socio-economic index, which is an already developed and used index, but to bring it also to practice in order to be able, therefore, to allocate resources taking into account this social composite index. And, in this sense too, in the emotional welfare program, those people who have gone there incorporating are those teams that have precisely this lowest index. Then, look, we'll create an advisor council. I don't believe in the health system, I believe in primary care. And, look, there's a little precedent: the Pandemic Advisor. I meant that we would create it, because we believe that decisions need to be made in a practical way, not always the same ones that can be presented to us. And we have already had two reports in two situations, in two concrete aspects, and, once the decision has been taken, with total transparency, these reports are being submitted. So we'll do exactly the same for primary care. We will not make an advisor council just to have a sequence of names and with little activity, but it is a advisor council that generates opinions, generates proposals. And these proposals... some of them might be tough in term and others, no. And, obviously, we have everything that is the deployment of the current portfolio of services, and deploying the law of public attention to oral health. I also wanted to finish... two things that you mentioned and that are certainly clear. Some don't depend on us, but... For example, the fact of how we are creating this hospital center and how we are forming professionals from the faculties of medicine and society in its conjunction..., we are surely forming professionals that look or look at each other, when they are young..., in that research medium that comes out and explains the last molecule... And then, we, which is our job, have to go to work perhaps in the rural world, with very different characteristics. Therefore, this idea of, in the faculties, much more primary care medicine, much more family medicine or much more family infirmary – especially in the part of medicine, I speak – is clearly important. Two, the concept of consumerism, which sometimes has salvation as a use of consumption, as a consumption. And that's also an element that went beyond what is the world's salvation and what is social. And last time you said it, and it's one of the things that worries me the most –: in the last three and a half years or four we've pushed – and I've said it here from this Faristol or from the Public Health Commission – the twenty-five percent of traditional double coverage to about thirty-two. This is the real privatization of health services. That's privatization. And that's what we have to stop. And I also say this: it is certainly with reorganisation, reinforcements, etc., but it is with economic resources that allow you, concretely to primary care, to hold that which is essential to primary care: people, professionals, economic resources. And this point is key. This thirty-two_per_cent we can't allow – we can't allow it. And that's why we need economic resources. And I've put up with the two minutes. Congresswoman, thank you very much for everything. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.5.0	It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mrs Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.6.0	Well, thank you, counselor. We share many things, but in the assumptions or at this point it is a lost opportunity. It is to say, today, in fact..., or a few days ago a manifest signed or promoted for Amnesty International claiming and claiming that it reinforces the primary attention to it at least the twenty-five per cent of the presumption. It is a wish; here we can say that Parliament has said that I do not know how many times, years ago it is said, but that it does not go up to pass ever. In fact, today there is a campaign that continues to reinforce this idea, also driven by Amnesty International. And, despite the fact that it is the World Health Organization or the United Nations rapporteurs, those who insist on this state, that does not happen. And in the government's presupposition by 2022 comes more or less to the disset_per_cent, roughly, but neither is the mass to which it is destined or which parties are included in this area, according to which the pro-professionals of Amnesty International are said to be. That's to say, people don't know... Say: "Okay, now we have the primary care set, but I'm not very clear exactly what it's meant to be. Therefore, this is one of the challenges that there is, which is to explain what it is intended for while it is working to reach the twenty-i-five_per_cent, which begins to be no longer a need, but a need and an urgency. Because what has turned out to be all insufficient to cover the needs of the staff and the resources that guarantee this universal access to the right to salvation of the citizenry, also taking into account, as you mentioned, the determinants of salvation, and, therefore, going to the scene of what you have to see with salvation, but that primary and community care can give a service, because primary care is a point of health and social welfare. I, for that matter, didn't I? In this sense, it is reflected correctly in the assumptions. So, a few proposals. Rather than focus more on teaching the faculties, and therefore also on the level of primary and community care that the students are studying at the place that corresponds to them, it is necessary to stabilize the professionals. It cannot be that the Department of Health has a sixty per cent of temporary contracts or that there is a sixty per cent of the staff who have temporary contracts, and therefore never knows exactly where the debt will be, with partial contracts, hourly contracts, week-end contracts..., because this also has to see or end up affecting how it is paid to the attention, what attention is given, the conditions with which professionals are obliged to pay this attention. If we take this into account and take into account the year and half of the pandemic they carry, it is no longer a matter of pleasing them – it is very good to thank and thank the staff that come to us – so that we can dignify them. The best grace or the only grace that they require and that they need is that we dignify their work. And in many of these cases to dignify it is to stabilize, to give a decent working condition and, at the same time, to the department that explains to the users the reason for certainly conditions or the reason for certain situations. Because now, at the present time, the people that you require or need is information. Information why, as I said before, professionals in primary care centres cannot answer the phone; it's not that they don't answer because they don't want to, but because they can't. Or why there are empty primary care centers, as I said before, with professionals who make numerous visits – many of them telephones – every day. These are some of the emergencies, which must be accompanied by proposals for funds and this transformation that I gave him before. They must be accompanied by re-openings of primary care centres – some closed in the last few months, from other closed years ago and which have never been opened again – because this is the way to make the proximity care that guarantees to go backwards of little in this sense of consumerism of salvation, that ‘what's best is to go to the hospital, because they make more evidence of these with machines, and this seems to be more guaranteed than longitudinality and all the values associated with primary care. But like we'll have more time to talk about it, so we'll talk about it on our own. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.7.0	Okay. [[Decree of 26/2021, of 30 November, amending the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia in relation to vicarious violence]] [[203-00016/13]] The councillor will no longer intervene, in this second turn, with which we will move to the second point of the order of the day, the debate and vote on the validation of the Decree Law 26/2021, of November 30, of modification of the book according to the Civil Code of Catalonia in relation to vicarious violence. In the first place, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules, the Councillor of Justice will intervene to expose the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. Tea, therefore, the word the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justicia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Today I address you in order to ask you to support the validation of Decree Law 26/21, approved the 30th of November for the Government, and which modifies the Civil Code of Catalonia, the book follows concretely, with regard to vicarious violence, the violence that the parents do, in short, over the children and young people to hurt the other parent. It is an area of violence between parental relationships that is possibly the most execrable of all that society suffers. It's a reality, and from the Civil Code of Catalonia we also have a lot to say. In fact, the commitment of the Council of Justice in the defence of minors, in the defence of human rights, is absolute, and we believe that there is scope for recourse to ensure that the Catalan civil law continues to give an adequate and accurate response to social realities, to the different forms of violence in all its manifestations and, therefore, also to those produced within the family, the environment and the more intimate reduction, where man, in general, feels better protected, and especially the youngest, children and girls of a relationship. Besides, it's an emergency law decree, because all the lives count, and we can't spend a minute more without being able to give protection to this social reality. Therefore, it is a reality that the Department of Justice entomizes, because I already tell you that all the lives count and all the minutes count to be able to give an accurate answer and an uncertain answer to this type of violence. You know that, as the Civil Code of Catalonia is currently drafted, in terms of family, separations and divorces in concrete terms, it is the court that has the power to withdraw the regime of visits, state and communications to the other parent when there are cases of manifest rape. In these cases, the decision of the court does not usually go in line to withdraw visits, stays and communications of these minors. Only the year 2019, it was a tres_per_cent, the total decisions due to term per judge. What we're trying to do now is make it easier: let the judge be the one to withdraw these visits, these stays, these communications, and, if you grant them, you have to motivate him. Therefore, we ask for an effort. We are not going against these relationships, nor much less, but we are asking the court to make the most of it, and therefore to modify the general criteria that mark the law to allow these communications. It's a simple change, it's a change that gives security and it's a change that increases protection, as long as the motivation for granting stays, saves and visits need to be well motivated by the court. What do we want, too? To learn all the younger ones, all the younger ones who have parents, all the younger ones who live with parents, and to preserve them from this violence that can do one against the other. It is true that vicarious violence... is the one that protects the lesser victims of that violence, also execrable, which is done to hurt the mother through the child. And here we have it perfectly regulated, perfectly contemplated with the law of equality, with the law of the right of women to eradicate male violence. But all children count, as they have before, and we also need to protect the youngest of those more residual cases that are less common, that are less common, but that exist – in one case recently here in Catalonia, in our country–..., and therefore they want to protect those lesser victims from the violence of their mothers to hurt their father. Or, like all minors are equal and all have the same right, the minors who suffer from the violence of homosexual families – pairs, seas. It can be given the assumption that, in case of separation or divorce... You know, especially those who have devoted themselves to the practice of law, that when there is a break in pairs the parents are full of many things to hurt the other, also to hurt the children, sometimes unintentionally and without knowing. In one case, one of the parents did not take the child to football, to extracurricular activity, to say the least, because the one who had paid for the equipment was one of the members and the other, so he never wanted to do anything about it; therefore, he left the creature without going to football. The creature lost his hair as a result of the separation of his peers. I've come to say that the situation of extremes that sees a pair, so... it's unthinkable, what it can do. And in this case, instead of protecting what you think most, sometimes it hurts. So much so that what they want to protect the Civil Code are these lesser victims of the worst of rapes. Therefore, we ask you for this validation of this decree. We think we're taking a step forward in defending these minors. And, concretely, to detail the articles that we amend..., concretely 233-11, which establishes that the criteria for determining the regime and how to exercise custody..., we establish that it will not be possible to determine any state, communication or relationship rules, or that if there are to be suspensions, when there are well-founded indications that acts of family or male violence have been committed. I want to put the incis in these well-founded clues. It is not a mere complaint – it is not a mere complaint –, it is not a question of a unilateral declaration. Case law is a principle that has developed, and it tells us when it is a case law, and, among others, supposes that there is an open process, for judicial proceedings or for prosecution's instructions, among other requirements. Therefore, we understand that there is a jurisprudential emperor. And we also multiply the 236-1, according to the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to the rules of visits and personal relations, huh? , which, like the previous article, implies that..., when there are well-founded indications that there have been acts of family or male rape, while there are in progress in criminal proceedings initiated to prevent life, physical integrity, freedom, moral integrity or freedom and sexual freedom of another parent or of his or her children, or when they are in prison, for having been convicted of these crimes. And, finally, at the Institutes of the Department of Feminisms, we have incorporated the amendment of article 236-8.2, which establishes that, for the care and psychological assistance of children and young girls, therefore, will not warm the consent of the parent investigated by rape. Nor will his consent be warm when a sentence has been handed down, and even though no prior complaint has been made, consent will not be required when the mother is assisted by full-service care and recovery services for women who suffer male violence. We complete the decree with an additional provision and an end relating to the entry into force of this – therefore, immediate entry into force – and the adaptation of the measures in progress from the entry into force. And, moreover, it is not possible to escape that this allows, as always, the youngest already in a state-of-the-art and communication situation with others when there is a change in measures, and, therefore, it is possible to attach, on the part of the other parent, that there has been a willingness to do harm, that there has been violence and that there has also been, therefore, such signs of abuse. It pretends to be a decree, as I say, giving an answer to a social reality, to a reality that must also put Catalonia in the defense of all minors, without distinctions. And, therefore, they ask for their vote in favour of this decree, which I think helps us to take, among all, as society, an important step forward. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, as agreed on at the last Spokesman's Meeting, will be a maximum of five minutes for each group. The first word is on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.10.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, parliamentary workers... Mirin, before anything else, demonstrate from our group all our escalph and support all those women who must suffer this evil chakra of male violence, and also the lesser ones who must suffer it. All our firm commitment. We also express our commitment, like the Party of Socialists of Catalonia and Units for Progress, in the struggle, precisely, with all the measures that are necessary, to eradicate this scourge once and for all, as we have said, of male violence in all its forms, which, moreover, here in Catalan law are very clearly defined. The decree you're taking us with you today, we're going to vote in favour of it, but you'll have to let me, counsel, make a few judgments you'll have from our group that concern us. We are concerned that it is not useful for the purpose. We absolutely share the end, but we are concerned, and very much, that it is not useful, and I explain why. Mirin, recently modified, through the Organic Law 8/2021, of 4 June, of comprehensive protection to childhood and adolescence in front of the violence, among others, the 544 ter of the Criminal Law. This article, for those of us who are still in the matter, is the article that allows us to take precautionary measures when there is some type of complaint for a woman who has suffered male violence. Among these measures, which are extensive, criminal and civil measures are permitted. Of these civil measures, there is already today the possibility of cautiously suspending a parent's visit and communication regime with his or her children when there are these clues. All that, by putting a court aut, is to say, a resolution of a judge or judge of the rape court over the woman, where I can do it, that. Even when it's week-end and there's no rape court on the woman, the guard court can also apply these measures. So, that's something I could already do. There is also other legislation that does define what, even without judicial resolution... but it can have administrative effects. We have done it ourselves at state level, but it always has administrative effects. What's going on? That even the modification of the Common Civil Code of the State already foresees the term "judicial authority" and does not leave, in an indeterminate way, what is considered "sourced". In fact, for example, the 544th day when a protection order is issued with measures of criminal content, or it could also be when there is a letter from the public prosecutor's office. Here, in this decree, which you propose to us, there are only well-founded indications, and there is no firm feeling. We understand that the term ‘sentence' should be deleted, because above all in courts where it is not handled as urgent orders and switched to pre-sentences can be very difficult, but this indeterminate legal concept of ‘indeterminate indications' concerns us. Why? Because it's a law for surrender not to another rule, in case law. Jurisprudence may vary, it may change; we don't know exactly what we're talking about. If we go to the present case law, it is true that it is firm judgment, order of protection or, as I said, written of accusation of the public ministry. But if we don't define it, what do we have? We have the peril of interpretation, and, uh, when one has to interpret something as important as this. And I must also be allowed: we must believe, too, the presumption of innocence. It is the basis of any democratic system of criminal law, especially when it is restricted to rights. As I say, we will vote for it, but we would ask that it is passed as the bill of law to try to improve this decree of law. Why? Because Parliament's function is to legislate. It's the function of this Parliament. For now, the only one we see are decrees of the law. I sincerely believe that it is lawful to ask from this faristol that this decree is passed as a bill of law, above all because if it is because of urgency, that we do not deny, there are already legal mechanisms so that a judge can do it. And I say to him more: look, even if it can be of little use in the sense that violence judgments about the woman have an attractive dream, that is, they have the strength to take any family procedure, that even if it's already started beforehand... and that they will carry it. If it is the same judge or judge who has already known, for example, an order of protection, it will be the same who will also decide on the family procedure; if he has no longer decided this measure of suspension of the regime of visits and communication to the order of protection, it is unlikely that he will give it to the family procedure. That's why I'm telling you that we understand that it may not be very useful, but we can do it among all the better. That's why we're asking you, counsel, to understand why we're asking that it's passed on as a bill, above all because, in the end, an issue as important as this cannot have any type of interpretation margin to defend our children and our women. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.11.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mrs Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.12.0	Thank you. Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Once again, the Government presents us with the modification of the Civil Code of Catalonia, by means of a decree, with a total and absolute lack of legal and political consensus. And, before reading and analyzing the motius presentation of the decree, we find that we lack an explicit and reasoned presentation of the motius that requires the modification of the Catalan Civil Code, since it is based only on various laws of genera that are sectarians in something as important as the exercise of parental authority of the peers. And it's a tough mistake, not just legal, but de facto, to argue in the motivating statement that vicarious violence is male. And I textly read a piece of the statement of the decree's motive, which says that vicarious violence" consists of any kind of male-based violence against children in order to cause psychological harm to the mother. And it's that, according to you, when the rape in this sense is a man's practice, it's a masculist, and when a woman's practice is familiar, and that's what you find to be still possessed by the mantles of gender ideology. And in this sense, then, they're tearing up everything they find for the road. And that's not enough, because, once again, they deny us intrafamily violence, which is precisely what includes all the rapes that pass between the realm and the family nucleus, without distinction of sex or age. But this behavior is not just of men, as you try to make the statement of reasons for this decree read, including in the public demonstrations that have taken place from the Government of the Generality. And it's that this behavior is as much of men as women, simply because violence doesn't understand it, of genders. As happened in the case of the Yaiza, the four-year-old girl who died at the hands of her mother, who even had to go out her father to denounce the lack of institutional support in her case because the killer of her four-year-old daughter was a woman. And just for this reason he tried to cover absolutely to the maximum, in this case, simply because the killer was his mother, in this case a woman. And, in the face of the strong pressure it was under, the Government of the Generality had to go out and apologize publicly to the Yaiza's father, and I think they'd be ashamed of themselves. Clearly, administrations are doing everything possible to protect minors and it is legal to do so. But to legislate without an imposition of an ideology, because the right to protection does not understand it, from a gender perspective. And it's aberrant that you in this sense use the minors and the situations of violence that these suffer or can get to suffer to present us with a decree charged with an ideology that criminalizes a part of the population. Is this your way of protecting the underage? And the progress that has been made since our parliamentary group can't agree with that, because children are not a political commodity. And, lastly, there is one aspect of legal uncertainty – which has already been mentioned, in fact – that does not specify or specify what is meant by well-founded indications. And it is that this indeterminateness leads us to a violation of the principle of presumption of innocence in applying a measure such as the express prohibition of both paternal and maternal filial relations in a procedure without a firm feeling that, in the end, could end with an absolute feeling, which would not only involve great injustice, but also irreparable damage to the relationship of the parents with their children. And that is why our vote will not be in favour of the validation of this decree by law, because of the ideological imposition that comes from it, which has nothing to do with child protection. And, moreover, our Parliamentary VOX Group will act with the means that provide us with our legal order in order to combat the discrimination that is motivated and provoked by the Government of the Generality. And that's why we're already looking at the progress we're going to make on a possible unconstitutionality appeal before this decree that we're presented with. I, bearing in mind that it is the last Ple [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] ... – I nail it two, only, to wish a good Nadal. Bearing in mind that this is the last Ple before Nadal, I wanted to wish you a good Nadal, which delights your families. Because the best gift we can have is our family, because, besides, family is the foundational pillar of society, because without family there is no society. So very good Nadal to everyone. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.13.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.14.0	Thank you, President. Well, the issue of vicarious violence is a super-grievous and important issue, and therefore it is fitting that we deal with this issue with the greatest possible urgency, because it affects many infants who need this measure, so it comes into effect as soon as possible. That said, we, too, consider that the decrees are always better passed as a process of law for a question of complying with the legislative guarantees and being able to hold the necessary debates because the final texts, therefore, are as consensual as possible. And, in this concrete case, as much as we support the decree, because we understand the central urgency of the issue it deals with, we can't help but hear it as a dash for internal bleeding. From a legal and technical point of view, we understand that it has been very difficult to establish this final text to fill all the specific needs, to fit them between the Civil Code and not to confront them with, say, other enormous ones. And we don't want to miss out on the technical work of all the people involved in this writing, but it's true that we can't help but express our opinion and our political appreciation on the focus of the solemn decree. We understand that it is a decree with a very binary and heteronormal focus, and that with these two phrases in the motius statement – and the Councilwoman of Justice made it in her statement –..., we do not understand that this is reflected in the wording of this decree. Because in the motius presentation there is added this question of domestic violence..., familiar – forgiveness, and in this ephemeral subpoint, between subpoint 3 of point 1, yes, it is claimed, without success, we understand, to lower the structurality and depth of patriarchal violence, fill it with tips these scenes different from concrete man-to-woman violence. But this is not the most reprehensible of the decree. There is no mention, either, of which practical applications will, for example, be at the time of managing these restrictions in the find points. But the most remarkable thing for us is that it is a decree that reads with a very punitive approach: it claims, through a tax-based wording, to be dissuasive of vicarious violence by threat of punishment and without any measure of reparation. We understand that, according to this writing and focus, people who abuse are socially unrecoverable, is what comes from this writing. What, then, remains the 'nobody back'? What's left of this feminist transformation? Last week he left us the great Bell Hooks, a black feminist theorist who left us an incalculable arrival of orientation of feminist policies that..., many parties of this chamber, many people, including his own government were made to die and regretted it. But, without doubt, the best honor that can be made of it would be to read it, understand it, and, in any case, apply its arrival. She left us reflections on how patriarchal violence is based on the belief that it is permissible for an individual with more power to control the remainder by mixing different forms of coercive violence, and this includes the rape of men to women, the violence between people of the same sex and, above all, the violence of adult persons against infants; "to insist on the rape of men against women in such a way that the other forms of patriarchal violence are undervalued is not useful to the feminist movement, because it hides the reality that a good part of patriarchal violence is exercised against the childhood on the part of adult sexists. We understand that any feminist justice initiative that does not speak of reparation and guarantee of non-repetition can no longer be transformative; it is simply a reform of roles between the same hierarchical system of distribution of power. So, it's so small that... yes, we'll give it support, but: do we want to reform it or do we want to transform it? Use words like "transformation when in reality what it is to reform the misrepresentation of concepts and theories of resistance of the margins and the popular classes...", explains how we can have a supposedly independent government that pursues independence from the jutjats? A self-proclaimed feminist government that pursues feminists in the streets and in the area of self-managed resistance, an anti-racist government that racializes ethnic diversity through police profiling and denial of citizenship, and an ironically ecological government that bets on macro-projects that destroy the territory. In short [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I'm finished – the tools will never destroy the house of the master. And that's why a government of the Generality will never be able to transform anything with the same old tools if it doesn't have the political will and the courage to break this system's protection mark to itself. We understand that they do what they can, and we understand that, but that's not turning, absolutely. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.15.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.16.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... So we will support this decree, which, moreover, we believe is a useful and necessary decree, and that, therefore, there will be a sooner and later in the situation of children victims of male violence in Catalonia. Andrea was seven years old when her father murdered her taking advantage of one of the unsupervised visits agreed upon by the court after her mother, Angela, denounced her father for male rape until forty-seven times. Her mother exhausted all possible legal proceedings in the Spanish State without getting any answer, and it had to be a United Nations court that gave her the reason. And finally, the Supreme Court forced the Spanish State to compensate her and recognize the responsibility she had had to stay away from her daughter's life. Ruth had six, her brother Joseph, two, and her father, the sadly famous José Breton, also murdered them enjoying a visit. Anna, of one year, Olivia, of six, to Tenerife also disappeared; she made them disappear, murdered their father when he was on a visit after the separation. The message he sent to his wife was: "And I will hurt you worse, and this was for your daughters. They haven't found Anna's body yet. And here, at a hotel in the Paral·lel, a father also decided to murder his two-year-old son at a time when he had taken him away to make a_turn after a few days that he had separated himself from his mother. And he sent him a message saying: "To the hotel I leave what you deserve. And that's just names, but... I think it's worth it that we name them and that we care about them who are the children who suffer from male violence and who are murdered and who are wrong to take advantage of the visits, when there's a separation, set up for a trial. There are more than a hundred children and children who have been murdered in the last two years for their parents in a way that hurts..., with what I gave him, with the « I will give you where your mother hurts the most. And yes, there's also little Yaiza. There's also little Yaiza, who was murdered by her mother to hurt her father. And we also condemn and denounce the murder of little Yaiza, but it is true that only numbers need to be seen to know that she is very minority. And what we won't allow is that we use the case of Yaiza, the male-violence negators, because male-violence exists and male-violence kills children and children. There are other children and children who are also murdered, but this does not mean that male violence kills children and children. But it's that, besides, male violence is not just the murder of vicarious violence. That is to say, all children and children suffer and are victims of male violence when their mother is a victim of male violence. There's no way a bad guy could be a good dad, and that's one thing we'd all have to tattoo. When a judge says that there is a case of male violence, you can continue the visits because you have to guarantee the rights of children and children... it is that you cannot guarantee the rights of children and children when you are leaving them in the hands of someone who has abused their mother psychologically and physically. Therefore, there is no argument or excuse to keep these visits. Because you're not just putting your life at risk; it's that children and children suffer the male violence of many ways. There are studies that show that it affects his emotional life, his relational life, his physical life. That's to say, children and children suffer from male violence when they try to intervene because their father doesn't hurt their mother, when they're in a shack seeing as his father hurts their mother. When a woman is pregnant and suffers from male violence, the fetus is patenting male violence. So, this is the great principle that we all have to keep in mind, and what we're doing with this decree is defending the rights of children and children. Actually, what happened to Juana Rivas is male-based violence. Perhaps if there had been this decree at the time of the sentences condemning the husband of Joan Rivas for male violence, she would be with her children and would not be in prison. So we're celebrating this decree. We celebrate the decree because, moreover, it gives continuity to a commitment to reforming the law of male violence last year, which is, moreover, to guarantee psychological attention to all children and to all children without the consent of the abusive parent. And that's a very important step, but it's also true, counsel, that it's a very important step that will require a lot of strengthening of specialized intervention services, because right now there's only one psyche to look after all the children and young people at the different specialized intervention services. And with this decree you will be able to come much more, and it is necessary to give an answer that guarantees your rights. And also, obviously, there will be a lot of information and training for the legal services and the courts, because what we cannot afford is that, if there is this decree, there are judgments that do not apply it. Therefore, we approve this decree. We don't think it's going to be done like the bill – we'll vote against it – but we do ask the government, once more, to go from word to word and notice it before and after. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.17.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.18.0	Thank you. Good morning to you all and also good Nadal, in case I finish it. Well, Councilwoman Ciuro has quite rightly said that vicarious violence is execrable. More than execrable, it's a monstrosity. It is something that, for example, in classical culture we find elevated to the level of the tragics of Edip, in the case of Medea, who was certainly a woman who kills her two children when her husband abandons her. It is true that statistically there are more men than women who run into vicarious violence, but not only; this is already a first warning sign that we need to look calmly at this. Unfortunately, I think that, as more monstrous is a behavior, it is harder to predict and to contain criminally. Because, of course, I see a lot of good intent in this decree, many gains in reacting to an obvious social alarm that has provoked these questions, but, of course, it is not about getting well. It is not a matter of saying: "Well, look, yes, they have done quickly..., because sometimes it is worse the cure than the disease. Because people lie, because judgments are wrong, because sometimes just these decrees or things that they do change a paradigm. When shared custody is put in fashion, it is given shared custody to come down or not to come down; so here perhaps we can establish a new paradigm that the courts apply in block so as not to go against the mainstream and that neither in solutions. I share the Socialist spokesman's concern, I mean, of course, the peril of interpretation is very great. I insist, I see many good intentions, but also many perils, in this decree, because, for example... Of course, I would say that in these themes we all share the diagnosis, but we don't always agree with the solution, but sometimes I say it. Because, of course, you see, taken to the extreme, taking into account that most people – that's true that they are men – who exercise vicarious violence only do so, so, because they have embarked on separation, for this same rule of three we could abolish divorce. Bearing in mind that shared custody is often the one they carry... we could also abolish shared custody. Say: "No, no, because, of course, this generates conflict between spouses. Clearly, and we won't, all of this, because seriously, let's just say... it would seem disproportionate to us. So, well, you mean I have a better solution than you're proposing, Counselor Ciuro? Right now, so look, honestly, no. What I have is a lot of doubts. I don't think we need to talk. I think we need to check the pros and cons. Obviously, we believe that this is to be done by law project, that we cannot make a law decree and is already there. We understand urgency, but it is not about transmitting a sense of urgency and it is already; it is about transmitting a sense of urgency and well done work. Therefore, the fact that we are communicating this debate to the citizens of Catalonia..., is already seen, therefore, that we do not take this as a joke. And, above all, to see, what cannot be – what cannot be – is that it is votes« yes or « no to things depending on the subject. What can't be is that it's planted: "Oh, it's a topic about genere rape. So you have to vote yes, so the paper says – that's not the case, it will advise – "You fool who reads it." No, you must be able to vote that you can't abstain, or simply not vote, when you don't see the solution to a problem clear, no matter how hard it is for you to know. In short, we share the concern of this chamber. We thank the Government for taking the initiative, but we believe that there is no right in this matter. We will abstain and ask that it be passed on, little by little and with a good letter, as the bill to be able to make every contribution, and to see if we get out. Which won't be easy anymore, because of the bill, but because of the law decree, obviously... it's killing flies in canonades and it doesn't fix the problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.19.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.20.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, we already announce that we are going to abstain in this decree, because we understand that it is full of loopholes, of legal insecurity, for a particularly serious, tragic issue, but that requires fine spinning and deep rigour. On the other hand, the amendment of the Civil Code in a coup d'état is a methodology that seems to us to be wrong, of little deliberation and of lack of democratic quality, let alone passing through. Those are, in essence, the two reasons why we will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.21.0	Thank you very much. Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Pere Albó's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, good morning to everyone. Well, indeed, therefore, to announce that, as it could not be otherwise, we will gather the proposal that we are getting, and to congratulate ourselves on this proposal. The truth is that we share the concern that all the rest of the groups have expressed with this chakra that is vicarious violence. We are of the opinion that urgency is justified on its own, given the delay in recognizing that vicarious violence is a manifestation of male violence. He's spoken before, hasn't he? , that there have been changes in the law from protection to childhood, etc., but they have been there, very recently, probably after cases that have affected very much public opinion. Therefore, the urgency seems to us... I have been told by the representative of Ciutadans: there is an obvious social alarm that demonstrates, therefore, that we must act with care, and that alone would be justified. Allow me also to address the representative of the PSC saying that – well, and also the representative of Ciutadans – there must be indeterminate legal concepts, right? But it does make me the effect that from the legislature what we have to do is to implement these principles and establish them, and then, then, trust that the courts will do their job. As the councillor has said very well, until this moment..., at this moment only in a three-per-cent of the cases the court grants measures, when they are truly justified in many more cases, always within the margin of weighting that must, therefore..., be the function of the court that knows the concrete case, but that, obviously, this decree gives the tools that from here we must give to the actors, eh? , judiciaries. In this sense, I also regret that – in short, I believe that he has also carried out his interventions, and so we want to make it clear from the Juntes – the Catalan civil right is a little bit. If there has been a recent change, if there are any changes, then perhaps it is urgent to adapt it. And, of course, any of the demonstrations that have taken place, of their interventions, have shown that you continue to regard Catalan civil law as something subsidiary, as something that we can use, we already have other measures. We demand the integrity of the Catalan civil law as a tool that must itself be able to structure the entire legal body. And that's the only way to change the Civil Code at this point. All this has translated from all the interventions, from many interventions that have been made, and we want to claim it. We also want to point out one thing, and it is that, as has been said, I believe that everyone must agree in the cases that have been media, etc. It has been pointed out, but we, in this minute that I am left, want to explain this fact. Vicarious violence, you say, has degrees of intensity, like all rapes, huh? And we have to be very careful about the damage that is being done to the children, which is colossal, when they are passive spectators, when they take footpaths... All this, therefore, affects them, of course, their education, the education of their empathy, to be able to put themselves in the place of others. These are some elements, some emotional management tools that they may ever tend to, the damage that Ishi does is colossal. And only for this will any initiative we take be little. Knowing when you want to say "yes" and when you want to say "no", assertiveness... All the studies of psychologists who treat... family therapists who treat these cases, therefore, explain to us the enormous emotional wound that is produced to the minor. Therefore, any measure that is taken in this sense, therefore, seems to us to be welcome. So you have all our support. Thank you very much, ma'am. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.23.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.24.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Well, as has been said, this decree is not that it does not generate good democratic salvation, but that it is a mandate of the reform of the law against male violence of the last legislature. And, therefore, there was already a parliamentary consensus that allows us to make this proposal – so we have this majority – which has already been discussed. In fact, the debate that we had held in the past legislature was how we could resolve a conflict of fundamental rights: for one gang, the right to the country empowered, and, for another, the right to the best good of the infant. We're used to it that in this society, when there's a right-wing confrontation, it always ends up winning the patriarchal right, to hear us: before the right to conscientious objection versus the right to right to avotion, we always end up prioritizing, right? , the right to conscientious objection, the right to express ourselves by pressing the women who want to go to a clinic to abort. And, in this case, in the name of the presumption of innocence, in the name of the authorized country, how many lives have been strangled, not to mention how many children, how many children and how many women have died in the name of this presumption of innocence? The company of the commons, Susanna Segovia, said it now: we are not talking about an age-old thing; there are names, there are sees behind. We're not talking about a assumption, but we're talking about a reality that already exists and that so far has not been resolved, in the name of this presumption of innocence. It was also said: a bully can never be a good father. I think this is the holder of this decree. What we're trying to guarantee is to prevent this situation, because the sons and daughters of male victims of violence are getting indirect violence, which is the violence that their mothers are getting, and a direct violence, which is that violence that they get from their violent parent. And so far what we had was a judicial system that tended to prioritize the relationship between the violent father and the creatures. And that priority was set, wasn't it? – and, in fact, in the debate it also seems to be raised – that either we are in favour of the right to innocence or we are in favour of the best good of the infant. I think this dichotomy doesn't exist, and that here we're talking about prevention, and that when there are well-founded indications... And I think that, speaking of many of the complaints, that ultimately what we do is generate institutional violence and not act with due diligence..., what we do in the name of the presumption of innocence is unprotective. And this decree that they intend is to save lives, something as simple as that. It seems lied that today with a vote we can prevent this situation, we can save lives, but... this is the will. Because, in fact, I think that there is one thing that is very important: that, so far, as male-based violence was a private issue, it was a silenced issue – that raw stuff is going home – the mark that they raised with us is that a abuser can be a good father, he can be a good working companion, he can be a good son, a good friend. What we are saying is that a abuser, in the rest of his life, in the rest of his daily actions, can be socially validated, because, in fact, the violence that these abusers exercise, as it is only in that woman..., in the rest they are socially validated. This is what we want to end with this decree. With this decree, what we're saying is that a bully can never be a good father. These preventive measures are that this cannot happen again. We must be able to prevent it. Because so far, as I said, relationships are prioritized, and, in the name of those relationships, in the name of the country's authority... here we've even talked about lying or false complaints. How many times in the name of the presumption of innocence have there been shattered lives? So what we're saying so far is that they can attack a woman, but they can be perfectly socially validated in the rest of their lives. And, therefore, as in this reform of the law we have made the commitment to bring this reform forward, to bring this reform of the Civil Code forward, we have also spoken of institutional violence, we have also spoken of due diligence... and, therefore, what we do with this decree, as I say, is to save lives, is to prevent, and that is what we have always asked from outside the institutions and from among the institutions: never to arrive too late, which is what happens to us, that, in the name of the presumption of innocence, in the name of this institutional violence, so as not to act with the utmost certitude, when there are women and children in the way. And that's what we do with this law decree: prevent, prevent and prevent. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.25.0	We shall now proceed to the vote. Remember that they have to listen to what they have assigned because the voting system is still in effect. In accordance with Rule 158.3 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall be understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of this Decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. So let's vote on the validation of Decree Law 26/2021. The vote begins. The decree obtained 114 votes in favour, 11 votes against, 7 abstentions and one person who did not vote. Given, therefore, the result of the vote, Decree Law 26/2021_has been validated. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law decree has been validated, I ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group to process this law decree as draft law. [[Pause.]] Yeah. Therefore, attaching the petitions formulated by various groups, let us vote if it is to be dealt with as the draft law. Let's start the vote. With the result of the vote, and in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules, the law decree, which obtained 61 votes in favour because it is processed as draft law, 73 votes against and no abstentions, will not be processed as draft law. Let's just go on a break that's preceptive, before we can start the presupposition debate, because we can't do it until two-quarters of eleven in the morning. Let's take a break, then, to two-quarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.26.0	All right. [[Project of the Law of Presumables of the Government of Catalonia for 2022]] [[200-00003/13]] So let's move on to the third item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the draft bill of assumptions of the Generality for the year 2022. As you know, and in accordance with Rule 134.4 of the Rules of Procedure, the debate begins with the turn of statements by parliamentary groups to fix their position on the joint work done by the committee and on the reserved items. These interventions will be major to minor, ending for the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia and the Republican Left Parliamentary Group, for a maximum of twenty minutes for each group. The vote on the opinion on the draft presupposition law will end the debate. Therefore, in the first place, the deputy of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress, Ms.Alícia Romero, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.27.0	Thank you, President. Good day, MPs and MPs, Economic Advisor, President and Councillor. I'm sure they'll approve today. President, time. If you want to give me just two minutes, I'll have enough. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, yes, very kind. Well, it said that today the presuppositions for 2022 were expected to be approved, and therefore the 1st generation would come into force. That's good news. It's been years, since the Montilla government, that this didn't happen, and so we must congratulate each other. Now, what seems to us to be not a waste is that the assumptions of the Generality, which is the most important law approved by Parliament, that the first assumptions of the President, of the Aragonese Government, are processed urgently and so quickly, right? So little paused, that obviously you didn't allow us to do a little quiet, probably because you didn't do the job in time with your no longer investment partners, and now we're here. And let me especially thank the work of my parliamentary group, of the deputies and the deputies, but also of all the technical team, represented in the Nelly, the Mary and the Martina, who have done a fantastic job in only five weeks. And I think we should try to make sure that the proper processing is not so, because the legislative work is not doing so well. Perhaps, Counselor Giró, if you had begun to work a little earlier, you would have been able to bring the assumptions to October and have had another type of processing. In fact, they no longer made a presupposition in the year 2021, despite the fact that the student candidate of Esquerra Republicana and today president of the Generalitat committed to it. And, therefore, it seemed that there might have been more time, not by 2021, therefore, to have prepared better by 2022, but it was not so. As I have already said in the debate in totality, Parliament's Rules of Procedure do not allow us to make proposals in the affirmative. That is to say, the Rules, modified then for Juntes for the Yes and for the UPC, condition us very much, limits us very much, to parliamentary groups, to make statements, because we can not move parties between departments, and this does not allow you to re-establish nor allow you to put the emphasis on what for you is priority, right? I believe that the compromise – I said this – of all parliamentary groups would be to amend the Rules, to analyse, to study new formulas that allow us to give more decision to Parliament, to return the view to Parliament. It is Parliament, which legislates, and therefore we should be able to have a regulation that you allow Parliament to do its job. Despite these limitations, therefore, my parliamentary group, Socialists and Units for Progress, has presented 327 papers, representing 587_million euros. It's not much, it's a 1.8_per_cent of the unfunded expense – a small part, it's true – but we can't do anything else. We're very, very limited. Now, there are 327 items with an emphasis on economic and social recovery. I don't know if you've seen them, counselor, I don't know if they've explained it to you, I don't know if they've made a summary of these reviews, but we think that some of us might have considered it, because they've done it with all the good will, and, more importantly, they're reducing spending on us superfluous, which is not a priority, to devote it to other things that they are, such as sanitation or education. And so it seems to us that you might have considered our reviews, right? We're really surprised you didn't even call us, did you? Not a conversation, about our proposals. The truth is, I was surprised, counselor. You know I care and respect him, but I don't think he's got a call, so he's had a hard time with us, but most of all, it seems like he's a mistake, huh? Don't call the first group in the chamber to comment on the presentations made by my group that, well, it's not having the right shapes, and I think, in this sense, it was a mistake. And, besides, you know that parliamentary life can be very long, and so you never know. Finally, the assumption that we are being presented after this rapid parliamentary process has lasted so long for only five weeks, so it has suffered very few changes, very few. We find the same assumption, a assumption that we don't like, that doesn't satisfy us, but above all, what we're most concerned about is that it's a assumption that doesn't respond to what Catalonia needs, right? , to the needy, to the opposite, to the problems that at these times has Catalonia. And, above all, it's not the assumption we need because we're in a crisis more than twenty months ago. Just today we are fifty per cent of the population, in this Parliament, the pandemic has worsened, and we need more than ever to strengthen our public health, but also our education, and also to inject resources to reactivate our economy. And we have not seen it, in these assumptions, in the field of industry or in the field of innovation. And, therefore, we do not believe that we can cope as the country deserves at these times that we have to get out of this pandemic. Counselor Turned, it's his first premise, and I also have to tell him we didn't expect more; or, rather than wait, we wanted more, didn't we? Why am I saying that? Because it seemed to us that, by being his first assumption and having changed even all the political color of whom he is now managing public finances, we thought or thought that you might have broken away with the inertia of the past few years, didn't you? , an inertia that has caused your vagina to incorporate expenditure into the assumption without reviewing the existing one. And, therefore, it is difficult for you, therefore, to have an exhaustive analysis, or you have not done an exhaustive analysis on this expenditure, not so much, but you have sometimes lost feeling; programs that have been in the past 20 years that we are probably not fulfilling the objective for which they were created. I thought it was a job worth doing. It's true, you can't do the whole premise in two days – from this we are conscious – but you could have taken some areas and done a thorough analysis to eliminate expenditure and dedicate it to aspects that are important. Look, we've done a very modest exercise, I say, because we don't have the tools of a government or the tools at these times, so, suppositions, but we've done an analysis of the tools we have, and we think we could have done a review of the expense that we could have released around 1,500_million euros, right? You'll ask me where. Well, look, I don't give you four examples, and from here on out, I'm sure you're more capable, aren't you? A thousand five hundred isn't nearly enough, it's a five percent of the unfunded expense. We thought it was an exercise you could do. Miri, you're cutting doubles, aren't you? To give an example, with the new structure of the Government, you have created two general directions of innovation in two different departments, Enterprise and Work and Universities and Research. Well, we don't think it's gonna be any use either because we're doing innovation policies, but what's clear is that doubling doesn't seem like a good way, so to speak, to reduce and eliminate spending. For example, a subject that we have also repeatedly discussed: offices abroad. The Department of Foreign Affairs has offices outside; we agree, but Action has forty offices outside as well. There are territories where there are two offices in the same city. Maybe we could think it's a one-of-a-kind office in those cities. I want to set the example of Mexico, which I fixed. There is the Action Office and the External Action Office; they are in different buildings with different staff. Home, we do an analysis of all these delegations that we have, that are more than forty, and we see if we can rationalize the spending here. It's exercises you can do. Also reviewing and eliminating excessive structures, right? Say the 2022 premise that you have 365 autonomous entities. Home, there are many: one hundred and twenty more than Andalusia and 220 more than Madrid. Some have a 1_million euro assumption, for example. You see, they're structures... that maybe they don't fit a single structure, for such a small assumption. Therefore, there would also be a possibility of being left out here. And now I'm going to a subject that we've also repeated many times, my parliamentary group, which is the CTTI. The CTTI is the telecommunications centre – important, it would only be missing –, it provides the information services of the Generality. But, look, do you know what's going on? That 2012 the president Mas, at that time, said that he had to change the model, that he had to reduce the staff to make outsourcings of contracts. And so, we reduce staff and increase resources, don't we? , or the services provided by third parties. Well, that had to be, so, obviously, a clear reduction in staff and an increase, but reduced, let's say, the assumption. It's amazing, what the CTTI did. I'm not saying it was done right or wrong, what I'm saying is that it should be checked. Miri, in 2010 the SITC's assumption was 285_million euros; today it is 708 – 708 – three times more. But it's that the staff, who had to go down because of the increase in contracts, was 353. It's down to 249 and now it's 459; 708_million euros, 459. Are digital servers obviously important? Important, at these times; very much. Now, you should explain to us the model that's developing there. Among other things, because we've had a lot of tech problems lately in the Generality, not for hackers, which can go through it a lot or a little. Miri, Icaen just got some help for the self-consumption. Listen'm, the day 15 obstacles to ask this... ; the 15 didn't work, the 16 didn't work, the 17 also, the 18, the 19... The 21 have said to make some packages to submit grants; the others, from the 10 of gener. Home, with €708_million, it is hard for me to understand that we are not in a position to set aside the opening of the grant petition, for example, for energy self-consumption. I'm very surprised. Not to mention the drama we had with the autonomes, etc. I mean, we could go in and check the CTTI, and maybe here there'd be a chance to stay away. And then, spending that we don't think we need at these times: the days, the trips, the reunions..., all that, it's a very important gypsum, if we go to the department. And here there'd be a chance to stay away. Therefore, we believed that 1,500_million euros was not difficult to get them, and you helped us to strengthen sanitation or strengthen education or industrial policies. But I left'manar at the entrances, didn't I? Look, I'm telling you the same thing in the tickets. It's true that you said it wouldn't increase the tax pressure. Still, I have to tell him that the tax and financial measures bill incorporates two memoranda for two of our own taxes. We're the most tax-free community you've got. I'm not saying we don't have to, and we'll look them up, and we'll expect you to listen to the sector. Now, wouldn't a more global analysis of taxation in Catalonia be worth it? , because it would be more fair and progressive, in our criteria, a more global analysis. And we don't tell them, I said the Fair Tax Platform. It's, like, hot, before you go in with tax credits, do a little more global analysis. But, look, following the entries – they have said many times, it has been approved many times in this Parliament – : the tax benefits in Catalonia, according to the assumption of the year 2022, increase 12,571_million euros; it is to say, 12,000_million euros that we stop charging because we make tax benefits. Some of us sure they're fine and we've picked them up, but there's a lot of tax benefits coming back; we don't know how many, because we've asked this study many times in the government of the generality and it's not done. But, man, I don't know, just that it was a percent, we'd already have some resources released here too. But they're surprised, because from 2020 to 2021_it's increased more than 1,000_millions that we don't put in for tax benefits. We're just asking, from my group, that we can review this, and that, if there's no return – it's the same, 100_million euros, 200, 300, 500 –, that they be eliminated and that we dedicate them to salvation or that we dedicate them to educational policies against segregation, in favor of inclusive school. Is that 100 million euros? Well, then listen to me, in industrial policies it would be a lot, because we only dedicate fifty. And, therefore, this work, this work must be done. Just like the fight against tax fraud. According to Gestha, in Catalonia we have around 16,000_million euros in tax fraud – it is a sifra that very much pleases Mr Canadell –, 16,000_million euros in tax fraud. If we collaborate more with the Spanish Tax Agency, we might be able to fight a little better, have more tickets, and, therefore, be able to engage them in these policies that we want. Frankly, there is work to be done, it has not been done, and we believe that here there is a margin, counselor, to get more tickets, and, therefore, to be able to dedicate them to those policies for our other priorities. And, following the tickets, what we can't afford is that you're not participating where you ask. And this has to do with the autonomous financing system, which needs to be reviewed, which needs to be updated. And, therefore, it seems essential to us here that the Government of the Generality participate in it. It's true that you were in an interview a few days ago, didn't you? He said, "Well, I aspire to sovereignty, don't I? But while you're not up, then, you have a country to rule. And, therefore, very well said, in that interview, that you would participate, because there we can get more tickets to Catalonia we have to be. This is what I think denotes a certain responsibility, and we were very pleased with his statements, Counselor Giró. In short, in general, the assumption has some very shy bets. They are very continuous assumptions, in general, in all and each of their policies. And, therefore, we, in this sense, can't harvest them. We're still in our position, very critical. The truth is that, counselor, we believe that there is nothing I can say to you that it is a premise that marks the beginning of a new stage or that they are the most expansive assumptions of history, because they are very continuous; I would say, at last, that at the most old style converge. But, finally, you've missed an opportunity and you'll know if you can get it back. Miri, and the processing of these assumptions has also put in relief, it has also put on the table before and after at the political level. And they'll let me tell you three things. Most of the investiture is broken. It's not a swing, that, because it was a first-person bet of the President of the Generality to agree with the CUP on this investiture, and so... its investiture and then a government, right? And many months have passed—seven, only—because this is treacherous. Home, we could already imagine that this would happen, because, finally, we've all seen the CUP, their performances in the past few years, with all the respect for the CUP, which is used to being very consistent with their positions, but actually in seven months... we didn't think that this was so fast, did we? In fact, the CUP had donated two years of a certain tranquility, of a certain margin, to a motion of confidence, but well, that was not finally the case. Listen, we've already told you. This generates instability and uncertainty, and Catalonia cannot allow this. We have always said that the UPC was a destabilizing party. But look, what we're saying isn't new either; what they're surprised is that the CUP itself said, that this past week's head approved a pose that marks the course of the next year, and they say that what they wanted was to destabilize the Government of the Generality, a position that clearly deepens in this segment with the execution, with this Government. So, look, we're, I insist, not surprised. We know the CUP, and you know it, too, because, I mean, they've allyed themselves with them many times. What I am surprised by, President Aragonès, is that you are following them by trusting them. And especially that they're following them trusting in an environment that we care about, and a lot, that's the Mosses. I know it's not the day today, but we're not very worried, and I hope we can face this debate at some other time. But who's gonna leave us, that? I mean, we've cut most of the investment, and who's behind us, beyond instability? I asked him on 22 November, president: at what point are we, what full road you set up for the country, from then on with whom you set up to approve the most important laws, the run of Catalonia, and he didn't know how to answer us. The truth is, we'd be happy if you could answer these questions. Second of all, we have a fragile government. We think we've seen it in these first months of government; I don't mean years, in these first months, right? Discrepancies in many themes, the list already begins to be very long. And, in addition, listening to some Members of Junta and Esquerra..., in other words, I feel very kind because, in other words, I think that I am very polite and very respectful to the government only by listening to other Members. But, well, you already know who they're running with and who they support. And, in the third place, they also surprise us very much that the first group of the chamber has not taken into account. They're really surprised that you didn't want to talk, debate, reach out to us. We've been offering each other since June. I thought it was up to you to make some country assumptions, not block assumptions. It doesn't seem like it's a mistake to talk to us – on the contrary – and it seems to us, more than anything else, that you, president, always going to the front of the dialog... So, you didn't do it with the first group in the chamber seems a mistake to us, especially because you're talking to us about other things, right? And I think that's what's most incomprehensible to the citizen. But well, you'll know, it's obviously the ones who mark the direction of the country from the Generality. Finally, our conclusion, our balance is denied, of this assumption, in the background and in the forms. We've already been there. And, besides, we also told them in a very clear way in the debate to the whole. My group is about to build an alternative that allows us, therefore, to approach a new horizon in Catalonia, of prosperity and stability, and in this we are and in this we will work. Now, today it is true that certain assumptions will be adopted in the vote, and Councillor Giró will be able to say and President Aragonès will be able to say that we will have some assumptions, but we must say that you keep a majority of investment broken, which generates uncertainty and instability in the country. We'll have a few assumptions, but we're losing a government every day that's more fragile. We'll have a few assumptions, but we get a government that uses the dialog sometimes in an interesting way. We will have some assumptions, but they will not reflect Parliament's view. We'll have some assumptions, but they won't be the ones that need Catalonia. How do I know I can ask you for a few things, at these processing heights, I'll ask you for only two things, which cost very little. The first: counselor, and I ask you because I think you can make a paper here..., which is to compromise 'to change the Rules of Parliament to return the view to Parliament, to find out who are the ways in which parliamentary groups can actually make contributions that show a change in some elements, re-establish expenditure. It's just that, if not, it's very difficult for us with this to set our priorities. I think the main function of Parliament is to legislate, we say it constantly. Earlier in the speech, Member Rubén Viñuales said: the main function of Parliament is to legislate, and if it is so slashed, that is very difficult. Therefore, ask them, counselor, to go to the front of this, of this amendment of the Rules. And, second place, President Aragonès, we would like you to explain to us where you bring the country. This costs very little, not a euro, but we would like you to explain it to us. He's lost most of his investment, he's got a fragile government, this 2022 premise doesn't make any sense, we don't know where the country is taking us. And we believe that these questions deserve to be answered by the citizens, especially after these cracks and this fragility. We don't need any more instability, we need some. And I think it would be good if you today, or on the next few days, explained to the country where you want to take it and how we'll get out of this crisis so hard that we're patenting, this crisis that brought us covid-19, to have a country that's closer and more stable. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.28.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the words of deputy Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.29.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Deputies, councillors, president... the approval of these accounts has been a blushing voodoo. In the sanatorium have appeared hilarious comics, a lot of celestial music, great magic shows, outstanding acrobats, excellent jugglers, romanticism to raudales and a lot of pantomime. Junts and Esquerra, after peeling publicly, came to a pre-agree with the CUP. When it seemed that everything was about to be blessed, the extreme left anti-system flew everything through the air, put nitroglycerin in the slogan of fifty_and_dos_per_cent and put the legislature legs up. Counselor Giró, as a bullfighter, took the reins of the negotiation, denied the CUP for three times, promised eternal love to the Communists of Podemos and half arranged the twilight. And all of that as Junts wailed around the corners, Ernest Maragall confirmed his new idyll with the great stateswoman Colau and poor Salvador Illa, for the umpteenth time, asked for a veil in a burial where they didn't want to see it. Now that Aragonès has closed a strange and interested marriage of convenience with the so many times rejected Mrs Albiach, it seems that they have kicked him ahead of the legislature. For now we see that money works miracles, also among the communists. Let's see how long it takes... Mr. Giró, I recognize your skills as a contortionist, juggler and acrobat in this vodevil, but not as responsible for Catalonia's finances. These are not the budgets that Catalonia needs. They are, as I said before, Frankenstein's budgets, made to the hindsight, approved to satisfy the extreme left, so friendly to the policies of the decline; budgets more thought-out to settle in the face of the demands of disloyal, irresponsible, hyperventilated and opportunistic parliamentary partners than to address the real challenges and needs of Catalans and our companies. Nor has illusionism been lacking in soundness, and this illusion is clearly seen in the growth and inflation forecasts set out in the document. The counselor says, in the text of the document, that the Catalan economy will grow to 6.4 next year. Allow me the expression, Mr. Counsellor, you have more moral than the Alcoyano. All economic agencies and major think tanks are significantly downsizing growth prospects. Everyone, there's no one who doesn't. Highlights the ECB's forecast this week at 4.2 for the euro area. Conclusion: we are going to approve..., you are going to approve, with your vote, budgets in which growth forecasts are not going to be met, expenses are going to be triggered, the debt deficit will also increase above what you mark in this document. In other words, automatic destabilizers are going to be activated, and nothing you have put into this budget is going to be fulfilled. Much has to change the thing so that you can face these words next year. The economy needs realism, and these budgets lack it. They also say in the budget that you estimate that inflation is going to move around two_per_cent. I wish, but it doesn't look like it. The ECB has also achieved growth prospects this week, has it not? , inflation prospects at 3.2 – 3.2. Today Catalonia suffers – and I say – suffers because that is the verb, I think, more suitable – a price increase that is in 5.3, and more and more analysts tell us, man, that it is not going to be so short-term, this bestial inflation. Therefore, if after what I have said, which I believe is empirically demonstrable, you still believe that these budgets are not wet paper, so, frankly, make them look at it. With the perspectives and forecasts that you support and shape in these budgets, it is clear that these accounts are fake, they are false. And many of the games you pose are false, because they are based on assumptions that are manifestly false. Besides, Mr. Giró is that he's fooled us without deceiving himself. He said he wouldn't raise taxes and in the end he did, in the end he did. Three new ones: that of CO2 emissions, that of the ships and that of the bollycaos – this of the ultra-processed foods – has increased one, that of empty dwellings, and has approved a mini-rebajita of the IRPF of Miss Pepis, with an impact of 25_million_de_euros alone, that is, nothing, a pinch of nun, frankly. So... and that, in a context in which, in the end, we already suffer..., we are the autonomous community with the most taxes peculiar to the whole of Spain and... But well, in the end, you, then, as you told us the other day in the control session..., you to that of fiscal competitiveness does not give much importance. I just want to remind you, taking advantage of this debate, that you are wrong; that the regulatory fiscal pressure that you shape citizens and businesses, many strategic sectors of the region, slows down investment, savings, job creation and the dynamism of the economy. In short, it helps to relocate businesses and impoverishes people. Its fiscal voraciousness and its constant attacks through these eighteen own taxes that we will have push us a little more every day towards the decline and political and economic irrelevance in which Catalonia moves. Take a look at Laffer, Mr. Giró, it's okay. Look what other regions of Spain are doing; listen to the experts, who rightly ask to stop creating new taxes; reduce interventionism and stop de facto boosting public-private collaboration. I already know that you will tell me that all these taxes are to pay for fundamental services and so on, but you and I know that this is only a half-truth; therefore, a falsehood as a grand piano. You and I know that, for example, more than 1,000_million... – I'm sorry – almost 1,000_million dollars in financial expenses as a result of bearing the highest absolute public debt in regional terms. They are also allocated more than EUR 1,000 million for dualities, chiringuites and state structures perfectly in a context of economic ruin and in a context of major social deficiencies. The 92_million_de_euros are also indispensible to subsidize chiringuitos for confrontation between men and women; the 465_millions to prevent the world from ending tomorrow, according to its apocalyptic and hysterical vision of climate change; 600_millions more to maintain regional councils that serve almost nothing; 40_millions_de_euros per year for political propaganda; 42_millions for more than five hundred high-ranking positions; or 28_millions_de_euros to continue internationalizing the unfortunate process; or 47_millions to normalize linguistically those abnormals we speak Spanish. That's, among other things, a lot of waste. There was a lot of room for reducing non-core expenses, but for you it is more important to keep your independent account than to meet the real needs of Catalans. [[Some applause.]] There are other games that we do not approve, that we do not support. Anyway, some of us don't even understand them. We find it fatal that 500_million_de_euros have been invented in the budget on covid funds that are not yet committed or even announced by the Government of Spain. They've put 500, but they could have put 3,700, but they're not engaged. Nor do we see any reasonable intention for them to set up a public energy agency that you and I both know is not going to do any good. Well, it'll still put four friends of yours and stuff, but let's go, anyway, this is not going to help at all to reduce the alarming energy prices. On the pact they have signed with Podemos, apart from the new taxes agreed, it laughs at the excess of propaganda they have collated. They have put five hundred thousand euros for the tram of the Costa Brava, 250,000 for the tram of the Pyrenees and 250,000 for the tram of the Ebro. If that's what they can't afford to pay for a tram car... all right, it seems like they're really worried about rail transport, but, man, the equipment is frankly laughable. The commitment that the government doesn't put a hard on the Hard Rock project, well, the question is, will there be Hard Rock or will there be Hard Rock? People in Tarragona want to know if there will be Hard Rock or there will be Hard Rock. Okay, you've agreed that the Generalitat won't put in any money. Okay, but will there be a project or will there be no project? That I think you should clarify, because a lot of people in Tarragona are asking. They have also taken advantage of that agreement with Podemos to ask for things that are completely out of a budget agreement. You have signed to end the conscientious objection of the doctors, demand the transfer of the Seprona to Catalonia, put to patrol on foot the mossos in a preferential way, plug their hysterical gender perspective in the faculties of medicine, create more chiringuitos like the Conservatori del Litoral... Finally, but it is that this is not a budget agreement, it is an agreement that goes far beyond the budget. But the most remarkable thing about that agreement – I read it the other day – is that – and this, if possible, would be good for one day to clarify it –..., where will the 800_million_euros we have calculated that it would cost to accept everything they have signed with them? Where will the 850_millions come from? Because, if you don't answer that question, I have to guess they're cheating on us, because I don't see where they're going to get those 800_million_euros that's going to cost that whole deal. I mean, where are they going to cut or what tax figures are they going to create over the next year to comply with that agreement? Because, if not, you will have deceived Podemos, but it is that you will have deceived us all absolutely. On our amendments: we have tabled more than two hundred amendments aimed at resolving those which we think are the main problems of Catalans. Look, we don't want a Catalonia in which 73,000 Catalans are still waiting for their dependence to be recognized. We don't want 5,777 people sleeping on the street. We don't want a generalitat that doesn't help the patients of ELA. We do not want our industrial companies to continue to leave Catalonia. We do not want to talk about energy poverty now because you are now ruling here. We don't want the miners to be entitled to a payment our children don't have. We don't want poor squadron moves and working without political backing. We do not want to remain the region of Spain with the most corporate failures. We do not want Barcelona to disappear from the top 10 of the international tourist destinations. Nor do we want a twenty-five_per_cent youth unemployment, nor do we want twenty-thousand boys to study in school barracks. We do not want the Arope rate, which is at risk of poverty, to remain at the peak of the twenty-first century. We do not want the President of the Generalitat to win 46,000 euros more than the President of the Government of Spain. We do not want more than 3,500 people with intellectual disabilities to continue waiting for a residence. Nor do we want the average waiting time for a traumatologist to visit you in Catalonia to be 149_days. We don't want you to keep smashing the concerted school. We do not want more than ninety thousand Catalans to continue waiting for you to call them to access a home at an affordable price. And neither do we want the government with more advice, nor do we want to continue to be garbage bonds. We do not want them to forget the large families and we do not want young people to resign themselves to not being able to work, buy a flat and form a family. [[Some applause.]] And for those issues, our amendments have gone. In short, Mr Giró, we do not want the Catalans to continue to turn their backs on them and we do not want territorial or linguistic problems to continue to be invented in order to conceal their unfortunate governance in all these aspects that I have just enumerated. That is what our two hundred amendments have focused on, not anything else. We know they won't approve of us, but they lose all hope of believing that their nauseous anti-democratic cord affects us. VOX will continue to defend a social policy attached to the real needs of the people, an economic policy that prevents Catalonia from being built into a solarium, an industrial policy attached to a polygon and a public spending policy that no longer mortgages our children. We are concerned that Catalonia is going as a headless chicken, without tractor projects that are dynamic in the economy, without the ambition necessary to compete with the major regions of the world, without the necessary cohesion that breaks its sectarianism, and that we are only a world example for what must not be done. We do not like to be champions of crime, nor to be champions in number of okupas or in Islamist threats. Nor do we like to continue to go out in the international media through barricades that mount anti-systems that normally support their government action. Our region does not deserve improvising rulers, who are ruining half of Catalonia with truly irresponsible pandemic health management. We do not deserve rulers who spend the day looking at their navels and looking guilty of the misfortunes that they themselves cause. Catalans want a serious, mature, responsible, realistic political class that faces problems with leadership, and that stops treating Catalans as preschool children. We want you to support the people who are early, the people who are playing their heritage to create a business, to start, the people who need timely support when things get complicated and the people who are sick of the public administration only giving them headaches. These budgets do not meet the needs of people on foot. They are more likely to satisfy their separatist, ecological and feminist hysterical projects than to help boost the economy in a context of deep economic depression. We cannot be accomplices to this profound economic, social and political error, and we will logically vote against it. And, having said that, I take advantage that this is the last speech in this debate in which I can participate in this legislature to wish all Members, Councillors, and especially all the workers of the Parliament of Catalonia, happy holidays. Enjoy with your family, and, above all, take care of yourself. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.30.0	Next, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, the Member of Parliament, Eulàlia Reguant, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.31.0	Good morning. Today is the consolidation of the assumptions of continuity, the assumptions of macro-projects and casinos. In fact, they are, in the words of Congressman Joan Canadell, the assumptions of the Hard Rock and the Winter Olympics– he said. On April 24, 2020, the same three parties approved assumptions that would make it today in the midst of the pandemic, which, as it was clear, at that time did not respond to the situation. Now, more than a year and a half later, we're in the middle of an onion, and they're going to approve assumptions that don't respond to the situation of the moment. But now they're not worth an apology; a year ago we didn't know what was going to happen, now we're starting to know. We are still immersed in the pandemic, but neither masks nor antigen tests nor reinforcement of primary care. A new missed opportunity. They had practically two years to make the necessary transformations, but they decided and apostatized for continuity. Despite what the Government says in the proposal of the Health Department's assumptions by 2022, these continue to feel insufficient – that it is a constant fact – but above all, poorly distributed in its priorities. With the increase proposed for 2022, it is not possible to cover nor the half of the actual expenditure of a system of poor health like ours, of years of detail, but also of an already insufficient construction. In short, let's go back. It will not be possible to deal with the historical and urgent needs of personnel, investments, changes of priorities to primary care, public health, mental health and cures. We have a couple of primary care teams and the hospitals are under-minimal and exhausted, a hospital pressure that goes back to sleeping dangerously on its limits. And the result is lack and delay, even more than was usual before the pandemic, in visits by specialists and in diagnostic tests; a very great pressure on professionals, who, apart from the conditions in which they work, give their face to the social unrest generated by their own col·lapse. And, before this and in a critical situation, you have decided restrictive measures, because before you had addressed the necessary transformations. And we will not say that before the situation of current infections and the health system does not want to take action, but, despite the differences, they reproduce the same as the Government of the State: minimum investment in health resources and maximum bet for social control. Why, President, if the free-air mask is to make you see that it's making decisions and little more, the knockoff from one to six in the morning what is it, if in Dr. Magda Campins' words it's to conscience and little more? He wrote Arcadi Oliveres in his last book that the pandemic leaves us with some lessons that we'll need to gather. I said: "What are we after? First, that in today's world, salvation is a high priority for one hundred per cent, and that we certainly had displaced it from our priorities. He added: "There are public benefits that cannot be abandoned in the name of the economy. One of these benefits is salvation, along with education and housing. And it is that in housing we also see great headlines that store the usual policies: transfer public money to private hands, so that they do not reach the 1000_million compromises in the investment agreement nor make a clear and determined bet to guarantee the right to housing. Of the 749_million in housing policies to the assumptions, only the split_per_cent will go to public housing; the large gruix, to private promoters. Old-fashioned politics. And, in habitation, the year passed 5,737 families lost the house in Catalonia, the vast majority to not be able to pay the loguer, which, as everyone knows, has faced a forty-four per cent in the last five years. And that, despite the state of alarm and the current moratoria decreed for the Spanish and Catalan governments to face the crisis caused by the pandemic. Between the generation and March of this year were recorded 2,437 denunciations in Catalonia, the vast majority by default of the logger. Catalonia is at the forefront of the denunciations of the Spanish State. It is evidence that it did not comply with the compromise to halt the denouncements of vulnerable families. And, moreover, making good the assertion of Josep Fontana, who explained that political life is done publicly, in terms of problems affecting the assembly of citizens, while the plot of legislation that favors the interests of finance capital and of the great entrepreneurs is kept discreetly in the shade, one of the groups that gives support to the Government blocks the approval of the law that sought to replace the Decree Law 17/2019 annulled for the Constitutional Court. And it does, as always, to promote the enrichment of a small group at the cost of the majority. And so it sinks into a society every time more unequal. And a few points more than the assumptions we have today. Yes, the new CO2 tax was finally deployed. In fact, for the first time the tickets are embedded in the assumptions. They speak of a xifra around 160_million euros. But with these assumptions it is no longer possible to allocate the inputs of this tax to promote policies for the conservation of solid and ambitious biodiversity, as many entities are claiming, and as, in fact, the commitments in the climate change law so stipulated. And finally, some of the points of the assumptions that today will be approved. You, too, who will facilitate the approval, repeat by active and passive that they are expanding assumptions. And we've already told them, and we're going to say it again, they're not expansionary assumptions: the half of the increase in the assumption in response to the incorporation of Next Generation funds, and the rest of the increase is a trend increase in spending that doesn't correspond to new policies, but to the increase in the cost of providing certain services. But it is that, moreover, if we base ourselves on the report that yesterday presented the Synod of Greuges, we see that without structural changes or transformations it is impossible to paliate inequalities. Even more than fifty_per_cent increase in the number of children benefiting from guaranteed citizenship income in the later years, the child poverty continues to increase. "Expansius must want to transform, he must want to truncate structures, and in this case they do not. And, yes, the people of this country need assumptions, of course, we don't doubt that, but they need to make the necessary transformations to guarantee basic and fundamental rights, and that's not the case. There is an alternative to the assumptions of macro-projects and casinos- There is an alternative because these assumptions give answer to the needs of the country and follow the assumptions of the strengthening of public health, the assumptions to guarantee access to housing, the assumptions that counter the "developmentist" model of the Olympic Winter Games and the apostinum for a plan of ecologically sustainable reindustrialisation. We know that a poor man doesn't have the same options as elites, that's a clear finding. To speak truly of a just society, it is necessary to ensure that the people are materially independent, or, in other words, that they have a basis for autonomy. That is why, among the considerations we presented to the law of assumptions, we proposed to increase the departure for the pilot test of universal basic income, because people can have a basis for living, a basis for autonomy. It would be even better if we had to tackle a tax reform that you actually serve to redistribute from the bottom to the bottom, but Fontana was right again: the scheme of legislation that favors the interests of finance capital and of large entrepreneurs is kept discreetly in the shade. We have a public park of ridiculous habitation, unable to enforce the right to habitation, while reversal funds and great modesties are dedicated to expelling their people from their homes and making negotiations. And that is why it is essential to guarantee the housing law approved in this Parliament in the year 2007. It is essential to exercise sovereignty by applying those laws approved in this chamber that serve to advance in a just society. And at a time of housing emergence, this is the right to housing, it's right to housing and public housing. Thousand million, they say. So here they are. We're going to run tests to make sure there's 1,000 million of them destined for the public housing park. And, as we say at first, we're in a pandemic and we're saturated with the health system. And the month of October we said: "The time has come to stop restricting rights and beginning to provide rights. And they didn't. We're going back to restricting rights, and we're going on without having a lot of people. The time has come not to repeat the usual mistakes, and that is why we are looking to strengthen the primary attention, to strengthen the basic teams – which are the ones that are already, well before the covid, warning of the situation. And, at the same time, it's converted into dantesque, the situation we live in, when, after practically two years of pandemic... no masks or antiquity tests for the people. Masks and antiquity tests have become vital tools for the population, but no one has bothered to generate structures to ensure that it is the public power that facilitates them to the population. And that is why we have also made plans to build a public pharmaceutical company that advances in these things that are indispensable, at these times, to live or have a minimum capacity to move. And if before we talked to them about promoting policies of conservation of solid and ambitious biodiversity, then we're asking them where is the Catalan agency of nature in these assumptions, because it's not there. Is he an oblivion? [[Pause.]] We have made plans to create it and above all to start providing it with resources and thus complete with the objectives marked to the law of climate change and the law of nature agency, which said that the agency of nature was to be the July of this year – we are in disarray... And to continue with some more points: this week we saw how it was going to beat the price of the light, but we see that its great public energy proposal is only worth 500,000 euros. We say that public energy is needed to advance the guarantee of a basic right such as the right to energy, and that is why we need to provide it with the necessary and necessary resources. And that's why we made statements in this sense. And by the end of this part, we've done more research, we've done more research to ensure that, beyond good words, public leadership for reindustrialisation is a fact. Faced with the failure of the Nissan Reindustrialization Taula or the government's impotence before Mahle's shutdown, public leadership, public investment in the country's reindustrialization. It can be defined who are the strategic and indispensable sectors that are moving with the logical "socio-virgents of the past thirty years and that guarantee that this country is planning. In short, about fifty items to show that there is an alternative to making the gir that we are waiting for from the beginning of the legislature. A turn to the left to defend and enhance social rights and a new economic model that opens a new stage and leaves back forty years of « socio-vergency and, at the same time, that is an adventure in the full independence path to reach a resolution of the conflict with the State. And, certainly, today the Socialist Party will not support the assumptions of the Generality, but it is not because there is a nuclear issue that makes them against the accounts; in fact, they are more than comfortable with this assumption. The only reason he won't vote for the assumptions is because the picture of the Esquerra pact, Junts and PSC wasn't digestible to the country. That's the only reason. And despite the fact that the photograph has been erased in the country, the photograph has been erased with lights and stenographers, with these assumptions, behind the scenes the republican socio-vergency in Catalonia continues to be consolidated in an unstoppable way. The last chapter we saw yesterday evening, taking advantage of the confusion and the stupidity that causes the disastrous management of the pandemic. Entremig of the Spanish conference of presidents, the press wheel of Pedro Sánchez and the press wheel of President Aragonès, filtered with nighttime the agreement that consolidates the pact between Esquerra, Junts and the Socialist Party, the distribution of radio and public television, the renewal of the Union of Accounts. And now they want to sell us this pact as a consensus agreement. It is seen that from a pact to three gangs to divide the caskets and the pasture is given the country's consent. With whom have they agreed to this division beyond the three partners? With no one. I'm not talking about us, I'm talking about the sector. With no one. The Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation will be formed by political representatives of the Socialist Party, of Junts and of Esquerra who do not even form part of the communications network, along with the historical complaints of workers and workers to professionalize the media corporation. Moreover, these workers see how this agreement opens the door to detail. They're two of the soundiest examples of yesterday's announcement. The next few days we'll see how this shameful pact was consolidated. Mr. Illa, this from the head of the opposition and the joke of the alternate government of Catalonia no longer goes away. You're a government. It's true that they don't let him out of the picture, yet, but at the same time, you are the preferred partners of Esquerra and Juntes. We saw it at the general policy debate and now it's continuing to consolidate, with this breakdown of Catalonia's autonomous structures. So you can say that you are the government of Catalonia, with Left and Together. You are ruling in Barcelona, where you do and do as you like before the resignations of the commons. You are the government of Barcelona, thanks to Junts for Catalunya. And, obviously, you govern the State with Esquerra as its indispensable partner and cross. God-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I... Ladies and gentlemen of the commons, although they don't surprise us, it's hard for us to know the role they played in this ball. Instead of adding to the right and common claims made by the CUP to the assumptions, instead of doubling the pressure on the government to make them possible, instead of adding from the left, you have decided to reduce the assumptions to a simple interchant of chromes with the Barcelona Assembly. It is a weak favor for the country; but, as I said, we are not surprised. And, well, Vice President Puignero isn't there. I hope you get the video back, because we also want to say a few things, because from our point of view it represents the one known as the Convergence business sector and is doing a huge job of reflecting this space. Thanks to the independent rhetoric of some members of his parliamentary group, he later came the country to the highest bidder. It's the country to big tech– Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Facebook –; it's the country to AENA; it's the country to Hard Rock and CaixaBank, and all that makes it the arm of Catalonia's Board of Directors, Development of Work. And, finally, President Aragonès, this week we listened again, through the media, that the CUP is the country's preferred partner. The preferred partner, Mr. Aragonès, to do what? Since the investiture agreement, which made it easier for him to reach the country's presidency, we have not agreed on anything that is transcendental. If there was a glimpse of hope in those mermaid songs of the country's progressive transformations, they quickly vanished. They have resigned and decided to settle in the politics of always, in the autonomous management. They have prioritized distributing the country with the Socialist Party and contenting themselves with Labour Promotion. And it's frankly disappointing. You continue to repeat that the CUP is its priority partner, and we continue to ask them to return to the starting point, agreeing that they were drawing a full transformation path for the country, and to lay the groundwork for a new fight with the State. Both his words and our cries begin to sound completely rhetorical. Every time we have fewer expectations to come to terms with, because "Republican socio-vergency in Catalonia has been rapidly consolidating, and it is very difficult that this can be pulled back. We have disbanded it and we will repeat it again: this government today would not overcome any question of confidence in the key of left and independence, but let us hope – because we are still waiting – that it will take advantage of the holidays to stop, reflect and start the year again from a new perspective. The CUP will not move from its commitments, but we will not wait for them. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We will defend them and demand them – and I finish, President – from the Parliament, from the joints and from the street. We do not intend to give up, because we firmly believe that it is the country's need: sanitation, education, housing, climate justice, defence of territory, feminism, independence, amnesty and the fission of repression. These are our flags. We were supposed to be the flags of the legislature, and we don't think we'd give up. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.32.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.33.0	Well, good morning to all of you. Good morning, everybody. Responsibility, utility, compromise in rhetoric or resignation. This was the dilemma with which we have addressed the presuppositional debate. We wanted to be responsible before the difficult and complex reality that we live, and useful, and compromise with people and their problems and with the strategic transformations that the country needs. And we did it by conviction, by the hope that things would change, so that we could improve people's lives in such complex times. So we understand politics, from In Comú We can: responsibility, compromise and utility, but also hope to improve what comes, also these assumptions. Who has private mutuals, who have private pension plans, who brings their child to private school does not need assumptions; the common people, yes, because assumptions are sanitary, education, public transport and a large etc. But beyond what we give each other in these four pairs, what we want to say to Catalans and Catalans is that where there is an opportunity to draw horizons, to reduce the wound of inequality, to get closer to territorial equity, to redistribute resources, to return to decent work, industry and the future green..., there we will be. That's why in common we have negotiated with the government, to be useful to people and contribute to the change of policies that the country needs and that global reptes urgently. On 22 November, we made it clear: the economic and social situation in Catalonia required an exercise of responsibility. Catalunya couldn't be without a presuppost. It was an effort to build it and respond to the growing inequalities, to the chronification of poverty and precariousness, to promote an economic revival that boosted social recovery fighting against inequalities and precarious life, to promote the green transformation of the material bases of production, distribution and mobility processes. And that's what we say on November 22. If that's what we say on November 22nd, with more force and reason we repeat it today, 23rd of December, in the midst of an on-the-spot crisis that demonstrates the urgency of having a presupposition and managing it in the service of the citizenry. We have years of public services that suffer from the effects of presuppositionary policies, which have not yet reverted and have affected the public sector and the services that the citizenry is responsible for. We see it in Education, Social Services, Universities, Culture, Habitat, Territories. But today we see it especially with all its cruelty to Greeting. Undoubtedly, the current collapsing situation of the health system and malfunction have to do with too many assumptions options for years. That's why Catalonia needs a presupposition. We cannot repeat the patterns of previous assumptions – based on the rule of presuppositionary stability already exceeded – nor can we continue with extended assumptions that increase discretion in the management of public expenditure by the Government. The state budgetary framework and the transfers provided for in this, the overcoming of the European Stability Pact and, therefore, of the expenditure and deficit limits, together with the contribution of the European foundations, place expanded assumptions that increase in more than 5,000_million euros the capacity of expenditure and investment that we cannot disapprove of. On 22 November we facilitated the presupposition process by exercising responsibility to ensure that Catalonia had a presupposition in 2022, and we took the compromise of negotiating the initial proposal to provide it with a major social content and structural transformations. The assumption that has come to Parliament is clearly insufficient; the expansion of the accounts, however, lacks the necessary social compromise and the ambition to transform the structural foundations of the Catalan economy in order to face the global challenges and climate change in which we are immersed. And that, of course, is due to the government and the party that support it, either being in the government or having invested it in its moment without conditioning its policies. And yet, we believe that, with the agreement that we have reached with the government, we have been able to demonstrate the utility of our bet. We have set up a set of proposals that accentuate the compromise with people, with the country's citizenship, that give answers to concrete and material problems; we have provided the initial premise of greater strategic ambition with the changes that guide economic recovery to a horizon of social and environmental sustainability at a time of global change and climate change. In agreement, we have put people at the centre of our proposals. We had neither the pressure to get falls nor the pressure to avoid a new course of the country that is heading left; we wanted to negotiate from the reality of people and the need for transformation. And that's what we did. An agreement, certainly, corrected, in a short time, is true, but a positive agreement. And that's why I want to thank the counterpart we negotiated with. I would especially like to thank Councillors Giró and Vilagrà, who have been leading the negotiations, and their direct negotiators, with whom we have held the meetings of the months: Mrs. Núria Cuenca, Mr. Jordi Cabrafiga, Mr. Marc Ramentol and Mr. Ricard Font, with whom we have exchanged positions and which they have already carried in the different spheres of government; but obviously also President Aragonès, who has led the bet for negotiation and agreement. Therefore, the agreement that we have come to appreciate it positively. In terms of salvation, betting for mental salvation and the inn in the margin of oral salvation, of the public dentist, unlocking the ampoule collar of diagnostic tests and waiting lists. We have also succeeded in recognizing the essential character of the clean-up services of health centres, of the props of five thousand women who in full alarm assumed, like the rest of the health personnel, the compromise in solidarity with the salvation of the citizens of the first line, and that they paid a specific sum, as other health collections have already arranged. Also in the land of salvation we have been able to introduce elements that must facilitate the internalization of 061. Keep things, sense of doubt. The presupposition of the system of salvation is insufficient yet, certainly; it is years of detail to reverse, of underdotted servants. We will have to claim that the presupposition management reinforces the joint health system, and in particular primary care, with more resources and staff sufficient to guarantee the best of public health. We have raised questions related to education and universities, especially for what it does to the release of repositioning taxes that allows the incorporation of new professionals to attend to changes and needs. And we have improved the management of teaching staff replacements, with more days of appointments and improving the quality of the work of substitutes and the management of teaching centres. And we have also provided support for emotional salvation for infants and young people, improving psychopedagogic counseling services at educational centres, especially high-complexity entry. In social rights we have advanced in commitments linked to the unified management of the vital minimum income, not to replace or eliminate, but to supplement and improve the current benefits of guaranteed income of citizens and also to unlock the index of sufficiency yields of Catalonia, frozen more than two years ago and that can unlock it. But we did not see that they are important, but insufficient, that will force us to resuscitate the presuppositional management and to develop the agreement as a political lever to unlock the shameful, also freezing social service programs contracts with the assemblies. Direct attention, the first response to social needs, they give it to the assemblies, and we need a new strategy that is plasm in a new, more ambitious program contract. It sets the agreement, also, strategies that they want to see with important social improvements, from the guarantee of the right to the blinding, to the compromise to promote mechanisms of recognition of the workers of the flat, facilitating their legal contract from powerful and homologable public mechanisms to other European experiences. The agreement also includes adventures in housing policies, which will certainly develop. The commitment to reach €1,000_million is, of course, conditional on the written commitment; but it also includes a clear bet on the size and retraction, on the housing of social logger and also on the allocation of European funds to rehabilitate the most vulnerable barrels, on the horse of the barrel law and the future green barrel law, which will help us to make comprehensive rehabilitation interventions in those most vulnerable and most difficult barrels. The agreement also speaks of industry, of commitments to the national industrial pact, increasing initial endowments and targeting parties to innovation and product change, with a special emphasis on research and vocational training, both in concrete and quantified resources as in the creation of specific aids that facilitate the continuation of these studies from Catalonia to young people, fighting also against early school leaving and reinforcing the strategy of having major graduates and middle graduates, able to contribute to business modernisation and to having them for a better job placement and a better professional qualification. In this sense, it is also important to note the gratuity we have obtained in accordance with the professional certifications, the titles that recognize the professional exercise skills of the workers in action or in action, which will allow to recognize the experience of work and thus facilitate the processes of mediation and insertion and strengthen the business modernization. The agreement makes a clear bet for a strategy that compromises with the Green New Deal, a bet and a compromise with green transformation as a source of wealth, but also of quality, life and economic independence. To make Catalonia a country of trains is a strategy that is clear to the document; « to train the country is territorial equity; it is also a new model of sustainable mobility; it is a strategy in the medium and long term that is drawn in the agreement and that will need to be deepened in the proper exercises budget. Light trains, rollers and connections in half distance is a challenge that we have to face. In the same way that the promotion of the public energy enterprise is situated with a clear compromise with a new model of energy based on renewables and with decentralized generation, they promote energy communities as a more democratic and sustainable model; or the impulse to direct water management, to the municipalization of water management, with technical and human and organizational support, which will be made from the Catalan Agency of Water. And also in the agreement we find elements related to the impulse to the conservation of the coast, putting the agency in the way for its protection. Proposals also related to the modernization and transparency of the Mosso d'Esquadra; we have also placed clear proposals, in this sense, to modernise, to make the function more transparent, to improve the compliment of the security protocols to be carried out by the Mosso d'Esquadra. The agreement doesn't go beyond taxation, I'm sure. We know that we have problems with taxation in our country. We know that we still have insufficient and not very progressive taxation. But we have put forward proposals for a new model that revolves around green taxation, healthy taxation and fair taxation. Important proposals are being put forward which will, in any case, require major work in the field of tax reform, which allows greater progress, which also allows a better fight against tax fraud. A fiscal reform that will take place at the state level and that cannot be expected, and in which Catalonia, the Catalan Government, will have to participate with its own vision and political will, and that will be able to know whether the Government is betting on a model that favors fiscal competition at the lower level, the Diaz Ayuso model, or a model that sets for sufficiency and redistribution just, green, healthy, with co-responsibility and solidarity. I'm done. Our position today is consistent with what we said. Catalonia needs a premise that allows for strong public policies in a context of social and economic difficulties. It's not a good time. It's time for dialogue and negotiation, okay to prove the utility of politics. We want to do this by putting people in the centre and orienting strategies of change in green, feminist and social justice. And this is what we have done with this agreement, to ensure that we have a presupposition by 2022, to enhance social commitment and transformative ambition, and to place decentralized, diverse investments, in health, education, social services and possible equipment, and to respond to concrete demands, girls from people, from citizens in their territories. That is why, with this agreement, we would facilitate the approval of the premise with our abstention, because it is necessary to have assumptions. Because when a grave some expanding assumptions are not harming the government's parties; what they are doing is harming the people, because the institutions are not parties, they are citizens. For this reason, we will follow closely the assumptions that are coming, from the assumption management from day to day to the length of 2022, in order to ensure that, from the assumption management, we act on the deficiencies that we still carry out, from which we have been naming in public services; in salvation, in a special way; also in habitation; also in territorial equity. We ask, in the day-to-day days of the presuppositional management, that ambition be increased; that ambition be increased in salvation, in social services, in education; that it be compromised with the strategies of green transformation. That is why we undertake to follow up on the agreements we have signed with the Government and its implementation. What is more, and we hope that the assumption will actually reach the people, to the solution of the concrete, real, material problems of our country's citizenship, and that it will also provide the strategic transformations that we need to make Catalonia a country in the height of the changes and global challenges that we have before us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.34.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.35.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we arrive today at the end of the road of a presuppositional process that has been precipitated, that has been, sense of doubt, hasty and with little debate and dialogue capacity, for the government's will to present the assumptions more or less in time. In the end, they do not arrive in time; but, in any case, there has been a willingness to precipitate this debate in form, to our mind, justifiably. Surely, what should be asked of a responsible government is that these assumptions have been processed in time and form, and in the end what has been done is, I insist, hardly justifiably disregard the terms of presentation of papers and parliamentary debate in order to say, to the capdavall, that the government presents the assumptions when it touches. That said, we, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, wanted to make a presentation work that is certainly very much above our ability as a group, from the point of view of the number of members of the chamber, of deputies and also of staff at our disposal. That is why, from here on, I want to thank our workers, our advisors, for their valuable ability to work for the sake of the citizens of Catalonia, for the good, for the common interest of Catalans. We are the parliamentary group that, in total, we have presented more papers to these assumptions, both for what it does to the joint and for what it does to the state of expenditure, as well as to the accompanying law that we will see this late. In total, there are 877 items, forty-six_percent of the total number of items submitted for parliamentary groups, and I think that this says a lot of our involvement in the welfare of the citizens of Catalonia; based primarily on the concern that, for many years now, Catalonia has been making mistakes in its spending priorities, it is making a mistake what are actually the daily preferences of the citizens of Catalonia. There is, for example, an irrevocable and absolutely regrettable fact that Catalonia continues to feel the community is autonomous with the lists of hope wider than all of Spain; Catalonia continues to feel the community is autonomous with more people in a situation of dependence and let us say that with less attention to this consideration; Catalonia continues to feel the community is autonomous with more students studying barracks at the schools of our community. And there are some facts that really should shame any government of the Generality and that, unfortunately, it seems that they do not result, do not result, in an assumption of responsibility on the part of the governments of the Generality. They have you, lords of the government, of separatist parties, the enormous fate of having an appeal; it is a very appeal..., let's say, very useful and very profitable in electoral terms, that it is to always accuse everything that has to hurt the Catalan reality..., to attribute it to an abstract and perverse one who is Madrid. Yesterday I, precisely, Mr. Counselor, Mr. President, attended the presentation of a book, the reading of which I recommend, so that I have only done it in myths, because I have not had time, and it is a book of back-to-back articles by Mr. Jaime Malet, entitled From the Tibidabo to the sea, and I recommend it with great enthusiasm, because precisely it is a book that speaks of the decadence of Catalonia to the length of these years of process. And from this point of view, he says such interesting things as, let's say, there is an inversely proportional relationship between the economic development of Catalonia and the development of an administrative and bureaucratic structure, such as the Generality, which has derived precisely from inefficiencies, in the ineffectiveness of the management of the public thing, along with improving the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. In this sense, I think it's an evidence... the fact that we have, for example, four hundred high charges in Catalonia that cover more than the President of the Government of Spain is an authentic anomaly. And these questions I think are going to... we have to get through this glass floor, this unbreakable wall in front of the public opinion that you have managed to impose. With a fairly successful propaganda and communicative strategy, they have made it very clear that Catalonia's citizens have some things – some things many times that are fallacious, that are not true, but that they are good inventions, I insist, of a propaganda machine – and, on the other hand, they do not see in absolute other considerations about the political and daily life of the citizens of Catalonia. Yesterday, in this presentation of the book she was commenting on, the presenter said to the author, "How is it possible that every time there is a problem in Renfe's stands or in Renfe's stands, everyone looks at the Government of Spain and everyone says that it is unfair, that the state of the stands in our community is unacceptable? I think this is an interesting debate, because we can actually talk about what the state of the streets in Catalonia is, it's a question that we actually think needs to be improved, but it needs to be better from objectivity and from a position that is more or less reasonable and above all fair with the rest of the public administrations. In change– and this is something that I accept today's assumption that the Government of the Generality presents to us – there is a work, a work like that of the L9 of the metro, which the Government of the Generality assumed for less than 2,000_million euros and the expenditure of which is already over or around 7,000_million euros. Therefore, a surcharge, which even the Union of Accounts has already assigned, of more than 5,000_million euros. How is it possible that this class of situations, this class of deproposals, do not have a greater presence in our public debate? So precisely, because, unfortunately, I believe that you have managed to fall asleep, you have managed to anaesthetize, to a good extent, the Catalan society before the collapse that has generated these two years of separatist process policy. For what it does to our papers, we consider that there is, let us say, a triad of elements that are especially bloody for the citizen of Catalonia, that are the front mask of the separatist process, that are the 1,100_million euros, that is said aviat– 1,100_million euros–, that is dedicated to the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, to the conglomerate that make up the Telecommunications and Information Technologies Centre, the CTTI, and the Agency of Cybersecurity of Catalonia and the Foundation of Space Studies, as well as the Department of Foreign Affairs. Before I mentioned the company Alicia Romero that, in fact, there is a follow-up of offices, a regular of offices of our community in the world that are integrated into the set of offices of Action, and these offices make the task of promoting culture, businesses, let's say, the business fabric of Catalonia to the rest of the world. This is the function that the Offices of Action have and, in change, it happens that the names of the embassies or, in any case, the delegations of Catalonia to the outside do this function. It is obvious that it is a redundant thing, and above all it is obvious that these delegations of the Generality to the rest of the world have a willingness to project the idea that, from Catalonia, we have been. It is not that we follow a state, that it is obvious that we are not a state, but that we are part of a state. Certainly, the Generality is part of the State and, therefore, should have, if not, a certain degree of loyalty to the rest of the State institutions. But, I insist, when you're a fan..., the number of offices in Catalonia goes up completely unjustifiably, the number of offices in Catalonia abroad, what is being done, in short, is to squander public money, money from the city council of Catalonia, in a policy that absolutely escapes, a policy that doesn't take place and that the only thing that generates is, moreover, a bad image of the Spanish community and, above all, of our community, of Catalonia. A presumption of 100_million euros for this Exterior Council seems absolutely unacceptable to us. And that's why we ask for measures such as the drastic decrease in their contribution, if not, or, in any case, their definitive suppression. We also call for the suppression of the offices of the representatives of the Generality, a decrease in the parties destined for the other offices and advisers chosen in a typewritten manner by the Government of the Generality. With fifty per cent of the reduction in this expenditure, very important things could be done for what is the spring of the welfare of any democratic country, in this case of the conjunction of Spain, but also of the Generality of Catalonia, also of our community, and I believe that this money should be intended precisely for policies that have to do with sanitation, with education, with social workers. It is necessary to eliminate external subsidies strictly, and above all to take into account the enormous, mastodontic assumption made by the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which, to our mind, is really very damaging to the public's own opinion of the citizens of Catalonia, because it is "systematically dealing with an idea of confrontation with the rest of Spain, with an idea of confrontation between Catalans, that it does not feel that the citizens of Catalonia have to pay veils for this game. In this sense, I believe that there are many things in these assumptions that I would agree that we were able, among all, to return, in the face of future tales in which there is a debate of assumptions. A debate of assumptions that, I insist, I think should start from the base that the citizens of Catalonia deserve a government that meets their demands, that meets their needs, their concerns and that does not aim for money to superfluous policies, to identity policies, to policies that only lead to fragmentation and division. I have had the opportunity to hold a parliamentary debate these days, some of which we have enjoyed and considered to be an enriching thing with other parliamentary groups, and I have had the opportunity to observe, once more, up to what point separatist parties flout a speech radically contrary to the principles, let us say, of social cohesion, of the principles of willfulness with the rest of the concept and above all very questionable from the point of view of collective morality or from the point of view of democratic principles. Last week, in committee, we were discussing the papers presented for each of the groups, and I remember that one of the elements, one of the key points of the Junts for Catalonia representative's speech, was to talk again about the tax policy, to talk again about the alleged abuse to which the Government of Spain supports us or what they call the Spanish State. And from this point of view, it has to be said that this speech from 'Spain in clothes' is a speech that does not give birth to democratic Europe. This absolutely dissolving speech of social cohesion, absolutely contrary to any intention to maintain the Catalonian unit and, of course, also Catalonia, with the rest of our Spanish compatriots, is something that, from a moral point of view, I believe is unacceptable. To present the rest of the Spaniards as thieves who harm us, who take our resources from us, who are somehow making a fool out of the city of Catalonia is an authentic mess that I think we should clean up all the groups in the chamber. For this reason, I believe that Catalonia in the last few years has become a rule in which it presides over the public debate the omerty, the lack of capacity that many people have to say about what you say in private in public. I believe it is time to demand and ask the citizens of Catalonia, the social actors, the economic actors, the actors..., the civic entities, everyone, all the citizens of Catalonia, who have the capacity, who have the courage, who have, in short, the firmness of saying the same thing publicly that they say in private; it is essential, in order to be able to overcome a situation of a public opinion that is secreted and anaesthetized by a nationalist discourse that makes them buy with a wheel of moli and do not signify or point out that it is the great flaws of this nationalist discourse that governs Catalonia many years ago. Otherwise, Catalonia will hardly emerge from the situation in which we find ourselves. It is a situation of decay, it is a situation that no one can deny; with the flight of entrepreneurs, of more than five thousand enterprises that have fled Catalonia in the last few years. I think from this point of view, it's okay... and now I'm back to glossing over the presentation of the book I was in yesterday. I attended this presentation by Mr. Jaime Malet, who was rhetorically asking how it is possible that the separatist governments or rulers can sleep peacefully with all the evil they have done to our community, with all the evil they have done to Catalonia with the flight of workers, with the division of Catalan society and, in short, with the economic, cultural, political and, in many respects, also moral decline of our society. So I wonder, actually: how is it possible that some people can sleep in peace knowing that, in the end, society, to which I doubt I feel..., has ended up harming it in an absolutely obvious and in a way, moreover, perhaps irrecoverable. I believe that what Catalonia needs are moderate economic policies, which is not what we have had on this occasion. Mr. Giró, I say it with all respect – because you already know that, besides, I understand it – and, finally, the problem I profess to you: I believe that Catalonia needs moderate economic policies, it does not need economic policies of an expenditure that is absolutely out of order, a expenditure that does not take into account, of course, possible contingencies that may occur at the length of the year that it sees, at the length of the year 2022, and that would leave us in a very complicated situation. I, these days, have had the opportunity, as the spokesman of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, to speak with representatives of the night-time sector, one of the most misguided sectors, for the government in recent years, from the beginning of the pandemic to the last restrictions decreed a few days ago. This sector or the representatives of this sector – I spoke to one of them – are really down. They are truly disappointed, because they consider, quite rightly, that it is necessary, that it is abused and that it is not informed of the decisions that they wish to take on their activity. Certainly, an activity that up in these months of Nadal at its maximum, at its peak, and that would require the government a much more generous, much more communicative attitude, would require the government much more understanding. And they're complaining, I think they're right, they haven't had any sense of explanation, no sense of warning, they've been too hasty, too hasty. And, certainly, from this point of view, another thing that shows that the Catalan society has to respond, has to wake up before the abuses of the governments, of the succeeding governments of the Generality, is that you, the lords of the Government, have decreed a follow-up of measures from the past dills and that also come into force this said – it is to say, today – that pass, for example, through the closing of the night octurnal, that pass through the limitation of social interaction, when you yourself disbanded, two days before the call of this manifestation, they cried out to participate in a manifestation and in a macroconcert, because it was, let us say, to the greater extent of the separatist cause. It is incomprehensible, absolutely perverse, the fact that some have decreed these restrictive measures for the whole population and that, in change, two days before they were enthusiastically calling for participation in this macroconcert and in this manifestation. A little responsibility, lords and lords of the government. I believe that the situation in Catalonia remains, let's say, with difficulties, with a presumption that, I insist, does not take into account possible contingencies in view of the year you see. It does not take into account what is foreseen by the main international bodies on inflation. Inflation seems..., and hopefully not, but it seems that it will impact our country in a particularly bloody way, all of Spain and also our community, in Catalonia. And I don't think that was taken into account at the time of writing some assumptions that it was about launching the message that was the most expansive of history, in a joyful way, in a way, to our parents, a little, let's say, frivolous, a little irresponsible. That's why we would demand that the government have a lot of responsibility when the situation... that, unfortunately, they see how we see that the health situation doesn't seem to be better until the extreme we hoped for, so that, when the year 2022 comes, they have a lot of responsibility for the development of these assumptions. I don't want to end this intervention without remembering one thing, which is an epiphenomenon of what we talked about before about the way nationalism is done in an all-embracing way, in an absolutely despotic way, which is the fact that today we know the agreement between Junts for Catalonia, Esquerra Republicana and the Party of Socialists of Catalonia to renew a follow-up of organs and statutory institutions. I sincerely believe that it is a huge shame, and I think it is regrettable that the Party of Socialists of Catalonia has come to an agreement that what it does is, among other things, and I have no time for more, to put the head of the ACC, of the organ that must age for neutrality and pluralism on TV3, someone who is neither more nor less than a photographer, the biographer of Mr Puigdemont. This I think is a good example of how things are in Catalonia, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.36.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.37.0	Thank you, President. Before I enter the budget, I cannot help but refer to an absolutely scandalous matter which deserves to be dealt with in Parliament. Last weekend, the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia was demonstrating alongside thousands of people. Forty_y_eight_hours later, he announced the closure of night entertainment, new restrictions on hospitality and catering, and curfew. Nothing more and nothing less. What kind of catastrophe happened in Catalonia in forty - eight hours so that you would move from meeting twenty - five thousand to not allowing eleven to sit around a table? None. The data was exactly the same on the weekend as on Monday. Why can you manifest yourself so joyfully and with the same health data – the same – shut down leisure facilities and restaurants? Does being separatist immunize you in front of the virus? Obviously not. It is their feeling of impunity, that they no longer conceal, because they have to have a lot of jet – a lot of jet – to ruin the sectors of leisure and restoration while they make a demonstration with twenty-five thousand people. You have to have a lot of jet and very little shame, by the way. Well, made this reference, we move on to the budgetary question. We have had the opportunity, in the presence of Mr Giró in committee, the committee also for the debate and the vote on amendments, the debate as a whole, this afternoon we will be taking action... that is, we have had the opportunity to debate extensively. The following speech will therefore be a bit of a recapitulation of all the things that we have been discussing in all these committees and also in the whole debate. With regard to the amendments. We have tabled 166 amendments to the budgets, which are intended to introduce sectoral and territorial demands of the Government, which the Government has not taken into account. And, on the other hand, also eliminate expenses dedicated to the maintenance of the client network of separatism. They are amendments that prioritize the allocation of more resources to education, social policies health, security, and that at the same time remove budget lines of propaganda or oversized agencies. I give you seven concrete examples which can be very useful in summarising the spirit of those 166 amendments. For example, an increase of 10_million_de_euro in the budget of food grants and school transport; guarantee the school model agreed with the increase of 5_million_de_euro; dignify the activity of the Mossos d'Esquadra by providing a productivity supplement of 8_million_de_euro; improving passive safety in police stations with 10_million, or by allocating another 20_million_de_euro to the social action fund of the body, and also with another 40 in order to be able to improve wage comparability. Other amendments, such as, for example, the increase in the budget for Catalonia's single works and services plan, thanks to the reduction of EUR 6 million in the budget of the Department of Presidency in items, above all, intended for propaganda. Then, too, the cut of 100_million_de_euro from the budget of TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio ; the substantial reduction of the budget of bodies such as the CEO, the Idescat or the Tax Agency of Catalonia ; or also the cut of 26_million_de_euro in External Action or in the budget of the Catalan Agency for Cooperation, which we believe can be better used for other issues. There are also 136 amendments from this group that are territorial in nature, which we have been gathering in the meetings that we have had with all kinds of entities, social, educational, etc.. That, on the one hand. And then I also wanted to repeat a reflection, already as a summary. which I have moved into the whole debate, but which I believe perfectly sums up our vision of this budget, and is that it is a budget that is not geared to economic growth or job creation; it is aimed at strengthening its political fabric. An increasingly large Generalitat, with an increasingly suffocated and smaller Catalan civil society. And more asphyxiated by you, by political power, by the Generalitat. Higher than ever, less resources for occupation policies than ever; 40_million_euro less than in the previous budget. Less support for the industry, more propaganda games. That is the philosophy that presides over your budget. With these budgets, you will continue to water millions of your fellow citizens, but in the end, you will condemn the decline of Catalan society as a whole. And as much as they do tremors of the branches with economic data, the most serious indicators show us that in Catalonia things are not going well, and with these budgets I am very afraid that they will go even worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.38.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr Joan Canadell has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.39.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. I would like to begin my intervention explaining, making a brief summary of the papers presented by the groups, which somehow or otherwise have been explaining, but briefly. All the parliamentary groups that have submitted reviews have totaled more than eighty reviews that do not reach 3,700_million euros; 3,678_million tall, huh? , that is to say, proposals of more presupposition. At the time, they have submitted reviews for 6,350_million euros of downloads. This misadjustment is because the VOX Group, in line with its ideology of charging hot, has brought many lower than not higher, but ultimately this is the summary. That is to say, the CUP is the party that has carried the most positive items – that is, it has asked for the highest – with a value of 1,686_millions. So, it's probably the party that has a different pattern, huh? ..., the parliamentary group that has a model more different than the government has made; but ultimately it respects the total of 38.100_million euros, not above nor the five-per-cent. So, man, we'd have to say that it's not a radical change, either, respecting Councilman Giró's assumptions. In this line, we don't understand why the CUP couldn't, somehow, so. abstain from these assumptions. And, so, I can't be asking, can I? ...I know there won't be a change of time now, but I can't be asking that we're still in time and that we're rethinking. And they're thinking about it for most of the 50-per-cent, not for the most part. Because we think it's very important for independence that these assumptions as at least have their abstention and not the vote against. Now, gentlemen of the CUP, Mrs. Reguant, reduce the assumptions to the topic of the singular projects – that of the Hard Rock, to make an intercontinental hub at the airport, of the Olympic Games before consultation – and to break thus the majority of fifty-two_per_cent, when more than three hundred years ago we skate an economic spoli, a cultural spoli, a democratic spoli..., we should say "it's not that, companies, it's not that. The absolute priority now should be to culminate in independence and, therefore, fifty-two percent is important and unity is important. Someone might think that they prefer a Catalonia in Spain without these unique projects to an independent Catalonia with these unique projects, even though the vast majority of Parliament voted in favour of them, huh? , which, somehow, we represent the sovereignty of the people. So, anyway, I want to think that no, that they don't think that. But for another band, what I want to say to them is that we need them. We need to find each other, the three games, as soon as possible, to make the full route to culminate in independence. Generating instability in the Catalan government will not ensure that this happens. Making unilateral proposals does not help if that happens. So, please, we know, let's talk about it and work on our own months to prepare for this definite fight. Gentlemen of the PSC – those who claim to be the alternate government, right? – you have only entered 595_million items; therefore, it represents the u and mig per cent. In this case, it is as if indirectly donating the agreement to 98.5_per_cent of the Spin assumptions. I know you say you can't make any more changes, but the CUP has made the triple of changes you have. Therefore... the CUP has made the triple of changes more than you; therefore, surely it is possible to make more changes. And in any case, it's all right with us, it's all right with just changing the u and a half percent. This reinforces the idea that they are good assumptions, the assumptions Turned, because if the main opposition party only modifies the u and mig percent, then, in any case, they are, I insist, good assumptions. It may be recalled to Mr. Illa that various times you are in the hands of working with this government on country-level issues, which, in any case, the assumptions are of the most relevant issues there may be. And, therefore, we do not understand how, in a situation like this, therefore, we could not have done an abstention either. Because in the end, that's it, if they're done and you don't mean it, that should have been more in this line. And, Mrs Romero, referring to your intervention, look, the Rule is what it is. We did not accept them at all or we would vote at all, but at least here in the Parliament of Catalonia there was no vote at all; at the Spanish Congress there were more than a thousand votes. And that doesn't say much about a government that wants to be the most progressive of history and the most democratic of history. And on the CTTI, you don't cheat on us; it's to say, in the last two years what has happened is to focus the spending of IT services on a department_sun, just to manage it better and to achieve economies of scale. So you don't cheat on us when we've increased, we've tripled, because it's not like that. And about the tax fraud, man, to say that in the last five years the Generality has brought out 1,163_millions, despite – unfortunately – not having the information of the Tax Agency that is continually asked to the State, and that also, therefore, demonstrating this little transparency of the Spanish State, has not made us arrive. In this sense, I also need a little more light in the dark for the Spanish government. For another band, the governing parties in the parliamentary process have also made high and low, huh? , for a value of EUR 58_million, meaning, therefore, in the order of 0.15_percent of the total. And that for us has made better assumptions that we already considered excellent, but in any case, it has made them better. And in this we want to thank the group of commons that with their proposals we can improve these original assumptions. In summary, all reviews, as I said, do not reach €3,700_million. And you know that I like it a lot, don't you? , comparing it with the tax deficit– is not the twenty_percent of the tax deficit. Therefore, ask, Mrs Romero, who said before: « Home, only if you have done a non-know-what or a non-know-what..., I say to you: look, only if we have reduced the twenty per cent of the tax deficit, everything – everything – that all the groups in the chamber have asked for we could put everything, add everything to it. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, the magnitude of the tax deficit is important. That's why, CUP companies, I'm going back to telling you that, even if you're the ones who made the most import of items..., I'm sure you're aware of it, but we're not all aware of it, that only with an independent state can we do whatever you guys want to do. And not just that, but many more social policies. And not just that, but many more economic policies, promoting the economy, helping the peppers, etc. Because it's a tax deficit issue. Without being able to move forward, we will not be able to promote co-operativeism, help self-employed people, micro-enterprises, and, in fact, we have no room for improvement for more. And I say that in place and place to work together again with the governing parties, to bring this country to independence as soon as possible. It's the only way we have to do everything we need. Mr. Martín Blanco, I already told the committee, huh? ... now I don't see it; in any case, it will be transferred there. I've already told the committee that all the lies that you say in committee or in your parliament are going to answer them; with arguments, yes – with arguments. In concrete terms, the last committee was told that, of course, the fiscal deficit was offset by trade balances. And it seems to me that it's a lot more complicated this year, but normally there is – Mr. Sala and Martín, Professor Sala and Martin, it was made clear that it's not at all comparable. This video has had more than 150,000 plays. And it's good for us to be told these lies, because then we fight them and that makes people know the truth. Yesterday, Mr. Martín Blanco told another lie – that you repeated it, that the VOX, the PP – repeated it, and that's the getaway of the people. This from the runaway of the entrepreneurs, the five thousand companies, I say to them again," I said in committee," tell me, 'none of the solos that the factory, the warehouse, the jails, the falls, the computers, that something has been taken away. Because changing the register in a computer, that's not running away from businesses; that's changing tax domiciles from businesses. And that's it. He didn't leave anything here– he didn't leave anything here. On the other hand, and as Congressman Tremosa made it clear in some other intervention, if we compare how Catalonia went and how the Spanish State... we grew more, the weather got better... So, listen, if this runaway of five thousand businesses were true, we'd be much worse off now than the rest of Spain. I don't, let's get better. Therefore, it is the finding that everything you say, in this sense, is lied, absolutely lied. Well, I take back the argumental thread repeating that these are good assumptions, the best assumptions in history, but a lot of what we could have if we enjoyed all the taxes we paid. Can you imagine for a moment some assumptions with 52,900_million euros, which is what we pay Catalans in taxes in 2022? It's hard to imagine, because what you've presented here, which is the list to the kings, was only $3,700_million. So, to get to split a thousand will cost us, huh? It'll cost us. In any case, the day we make the alternate assumption, without this fiscal deficit, so let's see where we can allocate more resources, how we can improve the assumption of salvation, in benefit, in education, in research and development, in everything that really suits us in this country. But it is also obvious that we could not only improve the presupposition, if we had these 52,900_million euros, but we could assume, therefore, reductions of taxes, we could assume many more investments in infrastructure, supplement pensions or, finally, implement the minimum guaranteed income in a universal way. And that's what we can't raise right now, because we don't have the money or we don't have the competition. A country like Catalonia, with 52,900_million assumptions is hard to imagine – I tell you, it's hard to imagine – but it's the only one that will allow Catalonia to have the level of welfare of the most advanced countries in Europe. I want to make, now, an incis here. In 2022, the State will have a public deficit margin close to the five-per-cent of GDP, of which the Central Administration will be the 3.9-per-cent, we are the 0.6-per-cent. This means that the State will have about 8,000_million euros more than they would have to reach Catalonia, that in one way or another they would have to arrive in Catalonia. How many will come of these? You want them to bet? How many are coming? But not only that: the year 2022, plus, the State will have an exceptional 27.633_millions in Next Generation. That too, for our economic group, would mean some 5,250 million euros that should come to us, directly or indirectly. For the time being, we only have 2,142. They're not coming any more? How many will come and how many will continue to burden the tax deficit? So, as this is heavy, I'm already making you a spy, and in any case in a while we're reviewing it: the fiscal deficit of 2022 will be over 20,000_million euros, because we will have the structural deficit, that of each year, these 18,000 approximates, more than those coming from a much higher debt than other years and the Next Generation. And that's the situation we have: we're being stripped back a year, and the time has passed as we go along with reaching an agreement, to a unity solution between the three independent groups to solve the rule of law and to become an independent state. At the same time, with the 38,000 million suppositions, what we can do is to start the transformation of the country, yes, but not with the strength we want, to make it possible for us to count on the Catalonia of yes: yes to a society of knowledge, attracted talent; yes to a country with full occupation and quality, like the small countries of Europe; yes to a more internationalized, more exportative, more interconnected economy; yes to a more balanced, more visible territory, in a network; yes to a more environmentally sustainable country. The Catalonia of yes to a real democracy, more feminist and, ultimately, the Catalonia of yes to more social welfare for everyone. While we are not a state, the Spanish State is still cleaning us up; while the independence parties do not agree; while Europe does not judge political prisoners; while the exiles are not fully free; while the fascism grows in Spain and sets it against the ropes; while we are managing the cage... We have many while. But let's not fool ourselves, these" while they're having an end, and later we'll get back to the 1st of October hope and culminate in what we started there. The presuppositions of the Councillor Giró are, therefore, presuppositions of the while, but they are good presuppositions. They are supposed to improve social welfare and economic promotion. But the pandemic situation that is causing us this week is expected to be very critical – rain on mules – and there are very busy business sectors, as you know. They had hopes in this Nadal to recover – the sector of the night oci, of the trade, of the restoration – and now they will return to a new garrote, in a situation already very delicate and that will accentuate with the return of ICO credits in a few months. It is essential, therefore, that the State act urgently, activates these 1,600_million euros of covid funds that we have asked in Madrid the Group of Joints, and that they will allow to cover the increments of expenses in health and the economic consequences of this new wave. The State cannot inhibit itself and renounce to solve the difficult problems of this moment. Thousands of entrepreneurs and locals have ceased their activities and thousands will do so if they do not act with economic help and quickly and diligently. Let us wait, members of the Socialist Party and, in this case, also members of the commons, who intercede before the Madrid government to arrive at these 1,600_millions, and do so urgently. And, as I said before, in the parliamentary process of these days, we have also entered some elements of the governing parties, which improve, as I said, the previous text, and which we hope, therefore, that today they will be able to approve. And I'd like to make some of these better. First of all, it's about trains. In this case of the tramway, at Camp de Tarragona, the informative study of the tramway of the Bages, the Costa Brava, the delta of the Ebre and Pirineu, worth 7_million. And this is a petition from the group of commons, to whom we give thanks, and we repeat from Juntas that we also agree with a country of trains and trams, but obviously the imports of reverse trains and trams are much higher than, for example, in road transport and, therefore, with the little assumption that we have, therefore, for the time being, we need to be content with this. In the oral health we increase 40,5_million euros, to reach a endowment of 50,5_millions, of which 35,5 will be mainly for the child population and 15_million to start the deployment in vulnerable adults and pregnant. The extension of the extra pay for the cleaning staff of the health centres of the Siscat. A game to expand the reduction of working hours by caring for children and family in difficulties, allow you to move from one_third to the middle of the day to the Department of Education. Also, very important is the drop in the IRPF at all yields below EUR 33,000 per year, which will benefit practically eighty_percent of Catalan taxpayers and will result in a reduction of approximately EUR 185 for all salaries up to EUR 17,700 and around EUR 300 for which this import exceeds. It is a measure that, moreover, is progressive, because obviously the impact is much higher than the lower returns than the higher ones. Let's remember, however – let's remember again – that from the recaptancy of the IRPF from the State to Catalonia, fifty_per_cent practically remains in Madrid and does not return. And before I finish my intervention, I would like to congratulate Councilman Giró on his commitment to have assumptions for the first generation, for having done this excellent work; not only to you but to the whole team, to Secretary Cabrafiga, to all the commands, to the people of Junts and Esquerra and surely common, who have been working there, and I know, these days many hours because that came in terms. And, therefore, many thanks to all and a public recognition for all of you. And, finally, I'd like to make a personal point, huh? I've already said in the final plenary about the totality that I'm new to this policy. And I would have liked it very much, sincerely, I would have liked it very much that these assumptions might have been approved with fifty-two percent of the independence majority. But unfortunately, it couldn't have been that way. And, therefore, I personally have also decided to give-support to it, because I think that entertaining better, will improve the lives of Catalans. But I got into politics because I love my country, and who appreciates it the free will. And I won't stop working to get it. And here I make a call to all the MPs and the MPs, because this 2022 we put thread to the needle, we prepare the job to culminate in independence and build a better country, which we could never imagine. Thank you very much. And good parties. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.40.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.41.0	Thank you very much, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies and deputies, very good morning to everyone. Today I wouldn't be close to participating, intervening in this debate of assumptions, but the company, the spokesman of Economy Lluís Salvadó, but the variety of omicron of the covid-19 – and the contagions already know that they are going up – fan, they require that we have to take stuff from the parliamentary group between companies, and that's what we do. From here, therefore, all the support also to those positive, confined people, and to all those professionals who are just returning to giving face and working at the front line to do it, fighting against the virus. Maximum caution, prudence, and affection for everyone. Even though it's hard – let me do this – and that it's complex to take thoughtful steps to protect salvation and life, we believe it's the best way to serve the good collection and to use the responsibility that we hold. Therefore, I also want to thank the Government and the President for the measures they take when they are necessary. Now, going into the matter, we've been celebrating the debate on the whole of the draft of the Law of Presumptions for this year that sees, for the year 2022, a debate that visualized the agreement pushed by the Presidency of the Generality with the Parliamentary Group of Common May and that allowed to deal successfully with these presumptions, and today, if everything goes as it goes, then finally approve them. During these last thirty days, more or less, we have processed and debated around 1,120 items of the draft assumptions, 805 items of the tax bill – the accompanying law that will be debated in the late days – we have made about two-hundred votes in committee, which today we will repeat here to the plenary, and in this sense we want to thank the task to the Bureau, to the legal and technical services of the house, of the Parliament, for all this good work due to the end, and which is also a waste, so we believe – and so we want to do – to thank the work of the people, of the parliamentary groups, if I may, in particular of the parliamentary group, but also of the people of the Republic. I also want to make a special thank you to the Economic Adviser, the Department of Economics, to his entire team, and extend it to the rest of the people who have been working on it since the beginning of the government, especially to the negotiating teams, as well as the Presidency. The result of all this, of all this dealing with these issues, with these teams, with this work, the result that we are going to have today is that we can approve some better assumptions for our country and a better, too, tax bill. Presumables that are country, yes, and that, therefore, are a victory for everyone, for the joint venture of society, for our country. And that's why we celebrate. It's the best news we can give the country today, the approval of these assumptions. Because we approve of assumptions that are clearly expansive– it has already been explained on repeated occasions – with 5,000_million euros more additional to deal with, therefore, the various crises that still lie ahead; assumptions that have a transformative will, with a marked social character, that define very clearly who are the priorities of this Government, especially Health and Education, but to put it, therefore, once, three of four_euros are destined for social policies. And today, more than having these expanding assumptions, more than having these transformative assumptions and with social character, we also consolidate and evolve a fiscal system that is clearly progressive, environmentally advanced and with a remarkable redistributive capacity. They are, therefore, transformative and republican assumptions, they are the most expansive in a decade and they also rethink the Generality and its instruments: active action for Catalan language, real impulse against climate change, firm and achievable commitments in social housing, and moving from those ancient retails that we have experienced in our country to making, for example, free teaching in the field of P2. They're good assumptions and we need them. In fact, they need the country and the people; we need them to reactivate this country, but above all to transform this country. These assumptions are all the opposite of the conservative agenda that we want to sell to those publicists of the status quo. Today, with the approval of these assumptions, which loses there are those who have the short-term benefit over, for example, environmental sustainability; who loses there today are those who defend their patriarchal privileges before, therefore, the equals, and those who lose there today are also those who gamble for selfishness and insolidarity in the face of a fair and equitable distribution of wealth. We know – and we know it and we will repeat it the times that are needed – that the best assumptions that this country could have, that we could do from this Parliament, are those of an independent Catalonia, and this is our goal: the republic, to have all the resources, to have those resources that we generate and, therefore, also to decide at the most on our competences and on taxation in full. And that's why we want to end the tax deficit, which doesn't allow us to be as useful as we want to be for the citizenry. But while we are doing this – while we are doing this – we believe it is essential to take advantage of an opportunity like this, like what we have, with expanding and social assumptions: more resources for people. The assumptions that will be approved today are also – I've already said that, huh? – the result of the work done by the Department of Economics and History in developing this own law of assumptions, but also – and this we want to put into value – are the result of the consolidation, since the year 2015, of economic and fiscal policies marked by presupposed pacts where the transformative left forces we have had a decisive role. And, therefore, I would also like a moment for Mrs. Romero, because... no, these are not assumptions of the most typical convergent style. We are talking about the free P2, public energy, the pilot plan of universal basic income, the reduction of the rates, the industrial participation of the Generality. No, they're not assumptions of the most typical ancient or convergent style. The assumptions may typically converge we would have had if the PSC had conditioned these assumptions. [[Greetings.]] Here we are: the Government of Catalonia in budgetary matters, and especially in fiscal matters, years ago it was on the left, applying left-wing policies in this sense. From the Republican Left, focusing, first, with influence from the outside; then, from the Department of Economy, and now from the Presidency of the Generality, we carry eight years making possible assumptions more just, progressive, equitable and of the left. And, obviously, now, the transformation and left turn continues and will be falsified with assumptions that replenish many of the actions agreed with the CUP and that, moreover, are realized thanks to an agreement with the Parliamentary Group of Common We can. Some assumptions, therefore, for the coming year that they will have all these incorporations in them. And, in this sense, I also want to give special thanks to the parliamentary group of the commons, and especially to his spokesman, Mr Gallego, who has spoken before, for his predisposition to the pact, to agree, to be able to reach agreement and for his willingness to form part of the answers that this country needs now. Today, as we did in the committee, we will vote against – already there is progress – of practically a thousand items that are kept alive in these assumptions. And that's important that we can say it and we can explain it. Important to say, because voting against some of these items is not about wanting them or not wanting to do what they want to do, but about not being able to answer everything. And it's to be consistent and realistic with the availabilities and resources that we have at our disposal. In fact, some of the items that today will be voted on, that have been incorporated, we could agree enough, so, with its finality, but they already know that in the economy all the assumptions bring a cost of opportunity, and even that we can agree with many high ones, that they can strengthen social policies or build certain equipments at the local level, very often we cannot agree with those low assumptions that carry associations. Because if there are any others, there must be some downsides. There are parties that are essential, and others that are essential because the Administration of the Generality and, therefore, of the country, works correctly. As an example, there has also been talk of it. The items against the expenditure of the computer systems, also referred to as the CTTI. Of all the parliamentary groups, 653 submissions were made against parties for information expenditure which would increase to a total of EUR 1,155 million. Only the Socialist Group has presented 200, of bass, touching these parties. If they were in the government, they could apply them, and they wouldn't apply them. So, it's quite a demagogue thing that's done here with some sketchbook. It is obvious that, in the 21st century, where the whole society operates strictly on information media, the Administration can eliminate the maintenance or renewal of these information systems, much less in a climate of climate emergence where we need to reduce mobility, or to the mig of a pandemic, where we need teletreball, or to serve the citizen by means of information platforms or by increasing the digital skills of the schools; so that we sometimes expect from some groups, not from those who have the vocation of government groups, because it is not responsible, therefore, for the Socialists Group to do according to what they say if we went to the government would not approve. As long as they're talking about that fictitious alternate government. In this way of the papers they have presented, neither government nor alternative. [[Greetings.]] Among all the submissions submitted for opposition groups, I believe that before it was also said, there are high assumptions for more than €3,600_million. The question is, how do they think they will do that? If we don't have more resources, how did they think they would do it? Another example, in this case linked to the Parliamentary Group, therefore, of Ciutadans, presenting 565 issues worth EUR 840_million. They are the very ones who do – before we could feel it – the speeches, therefore, defining themselves as true liberals, criticizing the high debt of the Generality, the excessive spending and criticizing the fiscal pressure. They want more money, but they don't want any fiscal pressure, no more spending, no more debt. And miracles, honestly, therefore, to Lourdes. They are the ones who make speeches in front of the gallery, because everything and the speech that we sometimes hear here from the fiscal pressure, from that fiscal hell, neither Ciutadans nor PP have presented reviews that they do is to lower the money that we do increase for props, with props taxes, such as taxes on estates and assets. Don't touch them. Then they criticize us, but at the time of making reviews they don't. In any case, what some minority parties of the chamber propose to us, above all those representatives of the right, those who govern from Madrid, is unsolidarized, it is selfish, it is leaving the weakest, it is the field that can. And, before that, we cannot but claim the republican management of the pandemic, but, more than that, claim the republican stake for a transformative economic and social recovery. Today, in the Spanish State, there are two social models, presuppositions, if they want to. For one band, ayusism, and for another band republicanism; for one band the bet of those who defend the extractive economy of IBEX 35 and always do more than the same, or those who defend the bet for a green economy and of high added value; those who defend and continue to maintain the fiscal dumping that holds the privileges of the most wealthy at the expense of the resources of all, or, on the contrary, those who defend redistribution in order not to leave anyone behind. And we, therefore, are very clear. It is true that the context is uncertain: more cautious forecasts of economic growth, the effects of the pandemic, the price of disparate energy, inflation, and it is true. But, all these uncertainties, the case is that the current tax receipts already exceed the expected levels of the pandemic. And, therefore, what we can say is that where we need to be concerned about the forecasts of the coming year, it seems that we can be calm: GDP may not grow as expected, but tax receipts will do so in this sense. I'm moving on. Today, too, therefore, there has been talk of this tax pressure on taxes in favour of the Government of Catalonia. Finally, the taxes of the Generalitat de Catalunya in 2009 were at that time EUR 136_million, which was 0.16_percent of the tax receipts generated by Catalan taxpayers; 0.16_per_cent, which is absolutely irrisori or very little. With the new taxes we have applied in the past, it is expected that 2022 will add up to 408_million euros, which is about 0.5_percent of the taxes we pay. In any case, neither tax inferno nor res de res. In this area of taxation, some other idea still remains: from years ago this Parliament, from the government, we are debating and working on this ongoing tax reform, which we could say makes Catalonia much more advanced in taxation, for example, environmental than in other territories of the same State or that the State itself. With the changes incorporated into the law of measures – at the latest we can talk about it – in fiscal matters, we are moving forward in the construction of this tax system that is appropriate, much more progressive and fairer, and little by little we are converting it into a local tool and bearing in the global fight, also, against climate change. Taxation, in short, pays taxes, far from being a hell, is one of the factors that differentiate us from the socially and environmentally advanced countries. Tax havens for big businesses and fortunes, which some groups of this chamber also ambition and sometimes remind us of..., what do those who defend these tax havens do..., what they do is condemn the children of the popular classes to a lack of education and health care; encourage inequalities. An ambitious tax system, like what we want from here, means a welfare state with redistributive capacity and social justice. I could talk about a lot of data, a lot of comparisons, about those that always come here to talk about the 'xiringuites, to talk about, therefore, in the end, about those expenses that, according to them, are superfluous. In fi, I set an example. For example, in this case, the one that is always at the top of the expenses linked to communication media or linked to TV3: cost per inhabitant of public television at the level of the State. In Euskadi, the cost per inhabitant of public television in Euskadi, EUR 65.98_ per inhabitant; in Galícia, EUR 38.1_ per inhabitant; Aragó, EUR 37.9_ per inhabitant; Catalonia, EUR 31.3_ per inhabitant. But the truth doesn't tell you a good headline. [[Some applause.]] The truth is that those who only come here to talk about the "syringuitos" – when we make comparisons this disappears–..., the truth is that their"syringuitos" are in the public sector. They are modern, efficient and agile forms to manage public administration, towards the management of earlier, centralized and centralist. And your problem, the problem of some who come here to criticize criticizing, are neither the costs nor the efficiency; it is that some of these organizations, therefore, are Catalan or defend those consensuses that we want from Catalonia; we defend them..., their own competitions or those values that define us as the country. The truth is that with these assumptions that we will approve today, assumptions for the year 2022, the departments of the Government of the Generalitat will have 5,022 more euros to be able to allocate them to the public policies of our country. A thousand million euros more for Education, to start making this free education to the P2, to the infantile 2, to the two years; 1,500 million euros more for Health ; 900 million euros more for Social Rights – here also claim more than 248 million euros for strict employment policies– ; the driver of universal basic income; up to 1,000 million euros more to deal with housing emergency – we are putting public energy into the market. If this is done with professionals or with people who will be part of our country's public servants, we have more than 17,000 professionals for the health system, more than 5,500 teachers for education, around 1,500 moves, firefighters and rural agents more at our country's disposal. That's how you defend the Mossos, gentlemen of the PSC: with facts, with resources and with effect; not using them as a partisan and liberating tool that we pull for the heads of parliamentary groups; so, with resources and with effect. More questions that fit into these assumptions: the promotion of Catalan language, the plan against the poor menstrual, and I could go on and on. But I'm done. We repeat: they are good assumptions, they are necessary for the people, and today we believe that it is a good day for this country. Today we have in Parliament, we have in this Parliament, the most independent parliament of history, after the elections of the 14th of February, exceeding fifty-two percent of the votes. We also have in this Parliament, the most left-wing parliament of the last years. And only by asking these two majorities, the independenceist majority and the majority of the left; only by asking these two majorities, we can move forward; not by confronting them, but by trying to add them; not by using one to deny the other. That's what we're trying to do from the Republican Left. What we want to bet on is a common agenda of transformation and emancipation, of social ambition, but also of national ambition. Someone asked: "Where are we going? So, well, not to the independence of our country, to build the Catalan Republic, to be able to dispose of all resources and all tools to be the most just, to guarantee this country of equal opportunity that we want for everyone. While we're on this path, because we know it's the best way to help people. But while we're doing this, so is running day by day to help people, giving answers and solutions, as we do, for example, in these assumptions. And today, with these assumptions, we can also say that these are the assumptions of the way as a whole: assumptions that have been led by a republican presidency, assumptions that have been granted and that have been led by an Economics Council, also led by a member of Juntes for Catalonia. President Aragones and we ourselves have compromised ourselves with this transformation program, and today, while we know that many times it is not easy, today we begin to make it effective with these assumptions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.42.0	Next, and after the speeches of the parliamentary groups, when the Councillor of Economy and History has asked to speak, has the word of the Councillor, Mr Jaume Giró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.43.0	Very honourable President, very honourable President, Councillors, Members, Members, my first words are of grace. With the vote that we're going to take, this Parliament will get the country to start the year coming from the first day with approved assumptions; this is something that didn't happen since the year 2010. In fact, twelve years ago, in December 2009, this chamber approved the latest assumptions that a 1-genre has come into force. I will only tell you that during the last decade, in five of the two exercises, the Government had to close the accounts with the assumptions of the previous year extended. This gives us the measure of the importance of this law and of the complexity and difficulty to pull it forward. Because a law of assumptions is a law of the economic advisor, yes. But it's not just the councillor or his department, nor is it just the law of the Government of the Generality. It is, as is demonstrated today, the law of Parliament. And, therefore, it is the law of the country. And that's why I want to thank all Members and Members, without exception, for their efforts to improve both the law of assumptions and the law of accompanying measures. In particular, I would like to recognise the collaboration, the contributions and also the exercise of responsibility of the parliamentary group of the commons. Thus, I would especially like to thank the constant sentiment that I have always felt towards both President Aragonès and Vice-President Puigneró, and for the extension of the two parties of the government and the parliamentary groups of Junts and Esquerra. Thanks also to all the advisors and all the advisors and their teams, for the quiet but extraordinary work they have done during the last few months. It is also fair to recognize here today the invaluable support of President Laura Borràs, who, since 9 November that we have entered the premises in this Parliament, has always shown me his determined disposition to an agile and effective handling of these premises. My sincere thanks also go to all the members of the Bureau and to the legal and administrative services of the chamber, for the effort they have made in time to publish and transcribe the documents that involved the processing of the laws. I said it a few weeks ago and I repeat it now: these assumptions are the best that Catalonia can give itself at this time. Despite all the difficulties, it was essential that we approve of them. And I am very knowledgeable and very aware of all the difficulties there were, but it was essential that we adopt them to face with every guarantee an exercise that, I say from now on, is an exercise full of challenges and uncertainties. For this reason, I will not tire of saying, this Government will not tire of saying: we have to demand the need for an extraordinary new covid fund, which for the moment is not there, that from Madrid we repeat that it will not be there, but that in the end I am convinced that it will be there – that it will be there – because it will not be there. It won't be there because the difficulties will be enormous. This 2022, with an outdated and obsolete financing model, we will have 3.117_million euros less State funding than the year 2020 – 3.117_millions. If we add to this the needy covid, as you can imagine, the needy will be very great. And that's why it requires all the groups in the chamber – all of them – the support to make a common front before this need, believe me, peremptory, that it's a country need, it's not a party need. The vast majority of citizens, citizens and citizens of all the reasons of Catalonia, expected all of us to adopt the assumptions. And that's what we're doing today. And that's why I want to say that for me it's a pride to be part of this government and to have participated in the elaboration of the assumptions for the year 22. Allow me, before I continue the body of my speech, some very brief references, which I see obliged, about some things that have been commented on at this morning's session. In the first place, to thank the always educated, elegant and cordially parliamentary, always exquisite of the lady Alicia Romero, who, despite our legitimate differences, always appreciates the whole and the attitude. From everything you have said, just tell him that of the tax benefits that you have mentioned, that are, as is well said, 12,571 million euros, disbanded 86,9_per_cent from state law, come from state taxes in which we have no margin to intervene. I'd like that. I assure you that the fight against tax fraud is one of the objectives I have, and I have it very, very within, and I hope to present in the end some data that I think will please the chamber. To Mr. Gallego de Vox, just say two things. For low-income taxpayers, who reduce the tax burden by a dotze_per_cent I assure you that it is not a minor thing – I assure you that it is not a minor thing. On the other hand, tell him that he knows me hard, that he knows me hard, that from all his speech he has only added to the qualification of "historical when he referred to women. That, Mr. Gallego, is not appropriate. That's not decent, that's not fair. [[Greetings.]] This is not appropriate in a bar or in a street, but doing it in the room, doing it in this hemicicle, is indignant. To Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, just remind her – she already knows – that I thank her very much for all the action and effort she and the whole Parliamentary Group of the CUP have made to try to reach an agreement. We knew from the beginning that it was very difficult, that there were differences that went beyond the premise, but we tried. I am very happy and pleased to have tried; life must struggle and try things. We went to sister, we negotiated, but there were elements that surely came much further beyond the assumptions and that made it impossible for us to do so. I also tell you that these assumptions, which for me are the best we can do, I have already said, at this time, we lack a piece; this piece, an important piece, which is the fifty-two-per-cent piece and which I hope that, as of July 22, when I hope to start negotiating the proper assumptions, we will return to your sister and this time we do agree. From the group of commons, I've said that before, I appreciate your responsibility and your attitude. Mr. Gallego and I have had some parliamentary dialectics, but we have understood a lot of things and I also appreciate the effort to make assumptions. And of Mr. Martín Blanco, Nacho Martín Blanco, just tell him that of everything he said..., that I also thank him for the whole and the disposition he always has, very polite and cordial, but also, of everything he said only surprised me today that I say that the public opinion is secreted and anaesthetized in Catalonia. Listen, in Catalonia, from anywhere in Catalonia, when a morning riser has a plurality of communication media, a diversity of communication media, of which, of course, the sovereignist media are a tiny, tiny minority, and the largest, most powerful and most numerous altars are the unionists; which does not seem very good to us; I mean, it seems very good to us, because we already like plurality and diversity, but we can't say that public opinion is anesthetized, segressed and asleep. We can't say that, because so much good is going on, there's this huge plurality of communication media saying it. I keep on with my speech body, if that's what it looks like. It won't be very long, but I think I need to say a few things to do something about the laws that we've incorporated into the premise, about some novelty that we've incorporated into the premise, that I've been defending in this gallery for weeks now. I want to refer, first of all, to the lowering of income tax, which will come into force this coming year and which will affect most taxpayers and especially those who have lower returns. We've created two streams of income where there was only one so far and this allows us to lower the IRPF to a point and a half in the lowest stream of the scale. On the other hand, this will also make all taxpayers earning less than €35,000 pay less taxes. It is an initiative that will help relieve the tax burden to the eighty percent of Catalan taxpayers. And so, like I said before, it's not a small thing. As you know, with this measure, we wanted to reverse the effects of the judgment with which the Constitutional Court dropped a fall that we already had in our tax model to make them less than 12,450_euros. Secondly, I would like to highlight the Government's effort to achieve EUR 1,000 million in housing policies at the length of the coming year. This means an additional amount of EUR 251_million in respect of the provision provided for in the initial draft assumptions. This amount will be used to increase the public housing park and thus facilitate access to a place where people who have it are most difficult to live. With this same objective we will also put other measures in the way, such as including physical persons in the category of great masters, so that they will be subject to the tax if they maintain empty habitats without a justified cause. Or the possibility for single-parent families to deduct the logger from the income statement. And, in this way, we reverse some of the effects of another judgment – of another judgment – the Constitutional's judgment that, in this case, brought down the legislation that we were going to pass in 2019 to improve access to housing. The third aspect I want to comment on... is that I feel particularly satisfied. Presumably speaking, it is a minor issue, because what it represents in terms of financing not above or 0.03_per_cent, but in symbolic terms it is very important. I am referring to the complementary source of risks with which we protect the indemnity and presumption of innocence of public servers working for Catalonia. With this foundation we guarantee that no public servant will lose his or her assets or compromise his or her tickets while there is no firm judgment in a court of last resort. Today, this foundation is endowed with a decree of law, but the coming year will be endowed with a law of law, also approved for this Parliament. With this foundation, once again, we reverse the effects of another judgment, in this case the confiscating effects of a judgment of the Court of Auditors, a court operating outside the judicial organs, but which also works as if it were a court of justice without being. And the fourth and last aspect of these assumptions that I would like to highlight has to do with language; with language and with the government's unnegotiable commitment to strengthen the presence of català through culture and education. On the margin that 2022 the Secretary of Linguistic Policy, thanks to these assumptions, will have a twenty-i-four_per_cent more resources to protect the català, the guarantee that the assumptions of the year come to mobilize the parties that each to reverse, once more, the harmful effects of another feeling, in this case that of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia, and the subsequent provision of the Supreme. About this I want to share with you two feelings: one of joy and one of sadness. Joy, because I have seen the response of the majority of this chamber: of the two parties of the government, of Junts and of Esquerra, but also of the CUP and of In Comú Can. Joy at the reaction of the schools, the teachers, the students of the peers and the vast majority of Catalan society. And sad, I say as I feel, because of the tebies, the ambiguity and the absence of compromise with which one of the groups of this hemisphere has responded. A group that I remember, that we all remember as always meant for a clear, clear and unconditional defense of the country's language and educational model. What happened to that party that even at difficult times made defense without català's beginnings? What has happened to those convictions about the language that defines us as the country and that has always helped the born here and the new come to grow in a full and enriching coexistence? In these moments of our history, I honestly believe that perhaps there is not enough fairness, nor is there any joke about the pathetic and ridiculous possession of a political leader who aspires to preside over Spain. But I must also say – I am convinced that, once the first political inflammation for the feeling passed, we will recover in this chamber, as we had always been, the broad consensus that there is to society on our model of education and on the language of the country itself. Honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I have just reviewed four outstanding aspects of the law of assumptions of the coming year. I have referred to IRPF, habitat, complementary risk and language. In the four cases, as you must have seen, the legislative action of this chamber has been disrupted by the political interference of justice. Look, what's going on with Spain's justice has a name. Spain is liscaning towards the Critarquia. Surely that name won't tell you anything, because at least a political reality that today is an unusual force and it's hardly a woman. I'll give you two examples of criticism. One, about three thousand years ago, with the form of government of the tribes of Israel that is described in the Bible. The other, more recently, with the form of government of Somalia, which, as you know, is a country where the State has been bankrupt until it is. What is the Critarquia? Critarquia is the form of government where political and legislative action is in the hands of judges. Critarcy is the rule of justice. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is what is happening in Spain, and especially what is happening in Spain in everything you have to see with Catalonia. So, this is my gift from Nadal to the members of this chamber who want to accept it. Since some are so concerned about Spanish language, the present is the same in Catalan as in Castilà: « Critarquia. [[Greetings.]] Until now, some of them were traveling around the world, assuming the singularity of the letter. If everything stays the same, in a short time you will be able to go for the world I assume of another thing: to be the only country on this planet with advanced Christianity. I want to finish this intervention by remembering an anniversary; an anniversary that inspired the content of the assumptions that we approve today. The month of December 1971, now fifty years ago, was published what was surely the most important political theory treatise of the entire 20th century. I'm talking about a theory of justice, John Rawls. According to Rawls, the two basic principles in which fair societies are founded are freedom and equality. But these principles of fair societies, freedom and equality, are actually opposed. To put it simply: if we want more freedom, let's prepare for less equality; or on the contrary, if we want more equality, let's prepare for less freedom. The hard work of politics is finding the balance between equality and freedom, because this balance will determine the exact point of a fair society. And here he sees John Rawls' most powerful contribution: the mental experiment he named "the veil of ignorance." I invite you to rethink it today. The experiment is the next. Imagine that before you were born – before you were born – you could have sorted out the model of society in which you lived. Now, as long as the tria is impartial, you must sort without knowing their personal condition within that society; that is, you cannot know whether men or women would be born; what colour of skin would they have; or whether they would have any intellectuals; or whether they would have any disability or a chronic disease; nor the profession, nor the heritage of their peers. Then, I feel ignorant of all this, they should be sorted out – I insist: they should be sorted out before they are born – if they would rather live in a society with general redistribution mechanisms or in a society where a very small part of the population disposed of by the majority of wealth. They would have to sort out whether they would rather be born in a society where each person had the same opportunities to thrive and pursue their goals, or in a society where individual success was driven above all by family conditions and the circle of relationships where they could move. They would have to sort out if they wanted to live in a society where everyone had access to quality educational and health services or would prefer to go out to a world where only privileged people could access an education and an extraordinary health system. In this it consists of the age of ignorance and which justifies why a welfare state with broad freedoms and solid redistributive mechanisms is the most just state there can be. I'm done. To capdavall, ladies and gentlemen, if we think about it, we must conclude that politics is a relatively simple undertaking. What we play with political action every day is very important, but it is quite simple: either the preservation of the privileges of a minority, which is doing away with all taxes and privatizing the welfare services, or the expansion of opportunities for the majority, which is doing away with the great pillars of the right-wing state. The accounts of the coming year have the vocation to work for equality, for equality of opportunity and, therefore, to work to stimulate economic activity, generation of wealth, but also redistribution and universal public services; they have the vocation to work for freedom, where we can. They are good assumptions, but I will not tire of repeating that they are not the best assumptions we could have, because one of the two pillars on which our country is based is full of lefts: it is the pillar of freedom. And while this pillar is not reinforced, while we can not strengthen it as some of us would please, we will have to conform to follow in doing, year after year, only good assumptions that inspire to improve equal opportunities and shared prosperity, but not free assumptions. And that's why, for the good of the assumptions that we can give ourselves, while we don't follow a country that's fully sovereign, they're not a country that's fully just. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.44.0	As the Councillor's intervention goes back to the parliamentary groups, the parliamentary groups which wish to do so could use the three-minute word. Are there any parliamentary groups that are asking for it? [[Pause.]] The Socialist Group is asking me? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. It's just that he's from major to minor... I see that they want to intervene from the VOX Parliamentary Group, from Ciutadans and from the Mixt Group. Yeah? [[Pause.]] The rest of the groups... the CUP too? [[Pause.]] Perfect. So, in the first place, he has the word to the Parliamentary VOX Group. I don't know where he's gonna use... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.45.0	Thank you, President. Frankly, we didn't expect the replica shift to open. Anyway... but, well, given the speech you just made, surrealist speech that the Economics Advisor just made, then, we are bound. He has not answered whether he believes the growth forecast of 6.4 will be met. This is a minor issue, for you the important thing is to talk about language. The Economics Advisor doesn't talk about this, he talks about the language. Well... Nor has he told us where the approximately 800_million_euros that the deal with Podemos is going to come from. I've asked you to clarify. He doesn't know. It's just that you can't make it clear, because you don't even know it. But if you can tell us, we'll thank you very much. He has given us here a lesson in democracy, in Christianity or in Christianity. Perfect. Anyway, I don't know if it's appropriate for the Economics Advisor to do these things, do I? But, well, we only defend one thing, to see if you can understand it and assume it: we think..., we believe in the separation of powers, in democracy [[remorse of the voice]] , in the execution of the sentences – yes, yes, they wouldn't laugh –, in the constitutional framework, all that you swerved and swerved with the coup d'état on October 1, 17. There are some groups here that we believe that this has to be done. Okay? And it's not that complicated. And that is indeed the basis of democracy. There is no need to go to Ethiopian models, to make reference; no, really, talk about democracy, the separation of powers, respect for judicial sentences. That's it. It's very easy. You don't have to go looking for Senegalese or Ethiopian political models – I don't remember which country you said. I'm done. It says... well, anyway, I've made a reference to income, to income tax. I told you... just like I told you last week in a control session. I said: Has there been a reduction? Yeah. Twelve percent? Yeah. Are we still the autonomous community with the highest IRPF in Spain? Yeah. When a person..., the lowest rents, if they live in Catalonia, are the most paid in Spain. We just say that the people who win the least, if they live in Catalonia, are the ones who pay the most in Spain. And that's what we regret and criticize. And I'm done. You've made a rather ugly reference from my point of view. In my speech I said that you focus on promoting your separatism, ecology and hysterical feminism. The adjective accompanied the three nouns, not the last. You can check the session log if you want. If you've understood that, then look, I'm sorry, I have no problem. I didn't expect this demagogic answer from you. And I respect women, so..., it's not one, it's that you don't have to teach us any lessons about whether or not we respect women more or less. Women are no longer wanted for investing more in chiringuitos and women are no longer wanted for breaking further the presumption of innocence and the principle of equality, also enshrined in article 14 of the Constitution. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.46.0	Then, it would be the turn of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.47.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, very briefly. Nor do we listen to the fact that there were other things that made it impossible for us to agree with the assumptions because the CUP did not vote for these assumptions. We don't cheat alone either. For you they are the best possible assumptions. We understand that they are insufficient and that they do not respond to the needs of the country, and that they are also assumptions that continue to bet on an economic and economic development model that is what it does for sale in the country. And no, Mr. Canadell, it's not that we focus on macro-projects. We focus on the impacts of these macro-projects, on working conditions, in the territory, to say that we do not share these macro-projects, and that if they are reflected in policies that are hard to term for the government, we will not share a country model. And the country model is also the country model we want for our independent republic. And it's not going to sell it out of the country before we're independent, because, then, what republic do we build, if we've come out of the country before? Soon it will serve to sell in the country before. And, therefore, I do not use fifty-two per cent rhetorically, because who the splinter is is who only uses it rhetorically while then what it does is to apply policies that go against the majority of the people of this country. It's these, 50-two-per-cent. Because fifty-two per cent, if it has to be used for something, is to advance towards independence, not to continue managing, as has been done so far, the socio-vergent mode of life. And that's the criticism we make of it. And if someone – and I said the day of the debate to the totality – broke fifty-two per_cent it is who goes through the door of the back to agree with Foment a project that this country did not want – and it was shown that this country did not want it – as is the expansion of the Prat airport. Therefore, they do not place the CUP on this responsibility; they must have other responsibilities, but they do not. And, finally, only as an anecdote, since the councillor has spoken of the veil of ignorance, in a logic also, councillor of Economy, of economics, I will only end up saying that for us the best economics treatise is what Marx wrote, and it is on the basis of this one that we understand that it is necessary to give answer to the material needs of the people of this country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.48.0	Then it's the turn of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The word has the deputy, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.49.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Counselor, as you have taken advantage of your intervention to talk about language, who later say that some of us are insisting so much on this subject, let me answer it on this subject. Miri, yesterday I received for WhatsApp an image of a sign that had appeared in a school in Lleida, which seemed very symptomatic to me, which said the following: "Catalan is my identity. You're gonna let me take it? What are you going to let me take it from you? And I thought, "Honey, what a lack of sympathy or empathy some spend in this community of ours. Because I ask you, Counselor – you may also think that the català is your identity – do you think that the Catalans speaking Spanish do not think that the castle is their identity? Do you think bilingual Catalans don't think that the catalan and the castle are also our identity? Does it seem good to you that they take our identity? Does it seem to you, Mr. Counsellor, that those Catalans that we feel and that we have the Spanish, in this case, as a mother tongue and as a family language, are taken away from us, as this sign from this school in Lleida said? I think we need to be very careful about these issues, because here what I think is that some people fill their mouths by talking about the feelings and identity of those Catalans who have Catalan as their mother tongue, and I will always find myself defending the right of Catalan speakers to receive their education also in Catalan, but to the reciprocal I defend enthusiastically and in an absolutely vehemently and forcefully the right of Catalans speaking Spanish to receive their education also in their mother tongue, because, indeed... the identity of the vast majority of the citizens of Catalonia is the Catalan and the Castilà. Is anyone going to pretend to take it from us? Will anyone admit to taking it from us? This is the authentic identity of Catalonia's city: català and castella as its own languages, català and castella as its own languages, and català and castella as its usual languages. This is the message I believe that in a community that is civic, in a community that is cohesive, in a community that is capable of looking at the future, it should prevail. And another consideration, Counselor, about the judgments that you have made and criticized the criticism of the judgment as governing the judgments. Far more forward, to Madison and to the pairs of North American federalism, I would like to remind him of an anecdote still newer, from when... Federico Second of Prussia demanded of the miller of Potsdam, a miller who had a mill that disturbed the views of his palace in Prussia... And he said to him: "Get that mill out of there because it disturbs my views. And the miller said, "No way. I will go to the judges to recognize my rights that you as despotic ruler want to prevent me from exercising. For the miller of Potsdam was well exercised before the judges, the courts gave him the reason and Mr. Federico Second of Prussia, far from criticizing it, said: "Happy that there are still judges in Prussia. Well, look, I tell you, counselor... [[Rialles.]] Faced with hilarity, it seems that either they do not know the anecdote or they do not know the principle of democracy limited by judges, logically. Faced with their hilarity, I tell you: lucky that there are still judges in Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.50.0	And finally has the word, on behalf of the Joint Group, the deputy Mr Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.51.0	Thank you, President. Mr Canadell has challenged us all, in view of the concept of 'business flight', which he said the departure from the head office is irrelevant. And he explained it with a scientific argument, rigorous, rational, absolutely indisputable. I quote: "Tell me one that has taken a chair or whatever. "A chair," he says. No, you just have to laugh, 'cause you don't have another remedy left. Look, Mr Canadell, when a registered office moves, immediately, as soon as possible, two things happen. First, that in ninety_per_cent of the cases – and is widely documented – the communication and marketing departments leave, and with them, a substantial part of the contracts that have the proximity requirement. The second thing that happens is that the boards of directors, when the pandemic allows and are present, are held elsewhere. No one escapes the relevance that for a city has the holding of top-level management councils. And you broke up with the chair, didn't you? It's just... [[The timer laughs.]] Look, in 2017, I was wondering – the truth is that I was amazed – how prepared, intelligent people were able to say, without blushing, that twenty-five states of the European Union were going to recognize Catalonia's independence immediately. They said it and stayed so wide. So, of course, I still doubt it, don't I? , because of course, I hear you talking about the chair – « the chair of Canadell, from now on – and then I understand everything. It's just like that, you guys, it's like that. [[The timer laughs.]] I have come to that conclusion. Well, that's what's up. Nothing more. Thank you very much. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.52.0	All right. So before we start with the votes, I want to remind them of what we're going to do so that we can order them all. First of all, we will vote on the expenditure statements. Next, we will vote on the items reserved for the written text, according to the voting blocks that have been established and following the voting scripts that everyone has at their disposal. All the same, we will vote for the idea that the Bureau of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has admitted as a technical one, and that it has also been distributed and has been published. And, finally, we will vote for the shares of the bill that have not been threatened. We shall therefore begin to vote on the items reserved for expenditure. Following the voting guide that has been distributed, this first round of voting between items 27 and 704. The vote begins. This bloc received 51 votes in favour, 76 against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 2, between items 1 and 381. The vote begins. This bloc received 14 votes in favour and 121 votes against. We now vote on block number 3, items 678, 679 and 681. The vote begins. This block of papers received 12 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 8 abstentions. Let's move on to voting block number four, 65 and 66. The vote begins. This bloc received 9 votes in favour, 93 against and 33 abstentions. We are now voting on block number 5, the items between 63 and 600. The vote begins. This bloc received 42 votes in favour and 93 votes against. Let's move on to block number 6, the items between number 2 and number 682. The vote begins. This block of papers received 9 votes in favour and 126 votes against. We now vote on block number seven, 59 and 60. The vote begins. This bloc received 9 votes in favour, 79 against and 47 abstentions. Let's move on to block number 8, which is between 70 and 793. The vote begins. Forty-two votes in favour, 85 against and 8 abstentions. Let's move on to block number nine. Let's move them between number 189 and 721. The vote begins. This block of papers received 9 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 8 abstentions. Let's move on to block number 10, the items between number 62 and number 720. The vote begins. This bloc received 17 votes in favour and 118 votes against. Let's move to block number 11, with the items between number 13 and number 719. The vote begins. This bloc received 20 votes in favour and 115 votes against. Let's move on to Block 12 now, Exhibits 61, 140, 143 and 576. The vote begins. This bloc received 9 votes in favour, 85 against and 41 abstentions. Let's start voting for block number 13, the reviews between 201 and 450. The vote begins. This bloc received 9 votes in favour, 118 against and 8 abstentions. Let us now vote on block number 14, between items 12 and 673. The vote begins. This bloc received 14 votes in favour, 115 against and 6 abstentions. Let's vote on block 15, the items between 28 and 700. The vote begins. This bloc received 42 votes in favour, 76 against and 17 abstentions. Let's vote on block number 16, check them out between 67 and 794. The vote begins. This bloc received 9 votes in favour, 85 against and 41 abstentions. We now vote on block number 17, items 44 and 789. The vote begins. This bloc received 3 votes in favour, 115 against and 17 abstentions. Let's vote on block number 18, exams 217, 219 and 220. The vote begins. This bloc received 50 votes in favour, 79 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 19, Emena number 58. The vote begins. This bloc received 12 votes in favour, 76 against and 47 abstentions. Let's vote on block number 20, the reviews between 162 and 788. The vote begins. This bloc received 53 votes in favour, 74 against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 21, items 213, 15 and 16. The vote begins. These items received 39 votes in favour, 79 against and 17 abstentions. Let's vote on block number 22, let's vote on them between 142 and 694. The vote begins. This bloc received 42 votes in favour, 85 against and 8 abstentions. We're voting block number 23 now, 382. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 9 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 11 abstentions. We now vote on Block 24, 214 and 222. The vote begins. This bloc received 39 votes in favour, 85 against and 11 abstentions. We now vote on block 25, between items 628 and 664. The vote begins. This block of papers received 42 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 14 abstentions. Let's move to Block 26, 387 and 660. The vote begins. This bloc received 48 votes in favour, 79 against and 8 abstentions. We're voting block 27 now, 511. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 18 votes in favour, 76 against and 41 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 510. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 50 votes in favour, 85 votes against. Let's vote on Block 29, the 152, 593 and 594. The vote begins. This bloc received 53 votes in favour and 82 votes against. Let's move on to block number 30, exams 133, 605 and 669. The vote begins. This bloc received 36 votes in favour, 80 against and 19 abstentions. Let's vote for Emena 223. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 39 votes to 88, with 8 abstentions. Let's vote on block number 32, let's vote on them between 52 and 134. The vote begins. This bloc received 42 votes in favour, 84 against and 9 abstentions. Let's vote on block 33, let's vote 53 and 120. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 51 votes in favour and 84 votes against. Let us now vote on the items reserved for the text. First of all, we'll vote for Emena 287. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 51 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena 34. The vote begins. Yes, Mr. Cid, why ask me the word? [[David Cid Colomer intervenes without using the microphone.]] Because I said it directly without the block. Okay. When there's a single item, I say the number of the item, yes. This item 34 has not been adopted, with 36 votes in favour, 93 votes against and 6 abstentions. Let us now vote on block number 3, the items between number 13 and number 286. The vote begins. This bloc received 14 votes in favour, 115 against and 6 abstentions. Let's now vote on block number 4, the 290 and 293 exams. The vote begins. This bloc received 12 votes in favour, 109 against and 14 abstentions. Let us now vote on Block 5, the items between 1 and 192. The vote begins. This block of papers received 9 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 19 abstentions. Let's now vote for block number 6, Emena 288. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 51 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 19 abstentions. Let's vote on block number 7, items 291 and 319. The vote begins. This bloc received 9 votes in favour, 79 against and 47 abstentions. We're voting now for block number eight, Emena 42. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 36 votes in favour, 84 votes against and 15 abstentions. We now vote on block number 9, items 43, 292 and 304. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 45 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 14 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 10, move 11. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 42 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 11 abstentions. We now vote on block number 11, the items included between 47 and 289. The vote begins. This bloc received 42 votes in favour, 74 against and 19 abstentions. We are voting now on block number 12, the items between 17 and 284. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 20 votes in favour and 115 votes against. We're voting now for block number 13 and we're looking at them between 4 and 149. The vote begins. These items have been rejected with 20 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now on block number 14, the reviews between 8 and 316. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 42 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 14 abstentions. We now vote on block number 15, between 294 and 323. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 9 votes in favour, 112 votes against and 14 abstentions. We now vote on block number 16, items 12, 35 and 36. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 36 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 14 abstentions. We now vote on block number 17, exams 25 and 29. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 11 votes in favour, 118 against and 6 abstentions. We now vote on block number 18, reviews between 30 and 39. The vote begins. This package has been rejected, with 36 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 23 abstentions. We now vote on Block 19, between 40 and 273. The vote begins. This package was rejected with 14 votes in favour and 121 votes against. We're voting now for Block 20, Emena 27. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 6 votes in favour, 117 votes against and 11 abstentions. Now we're voting on Block 21, the items between 302 and 326. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 50 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for Block 22, Eminence 31. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 9 votes in favour, 93 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting for block 23, Emena number 19. The vote begins. This item was rejected by 42 votes to 65, with 28 abstentions. Let's vote on block 24, 303 and 318. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 9 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 41 abstentions. We vote for Block 25, 44 and 180. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 9 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 11 abstentions. We now vote on block 26, item 196, item 197 and item 198. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 11 votes in favour, 121 votes against and 3 abstentions. We now vote on block 27, 309 and 313. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 17 votes in favour, 112 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting block 28 now, it's 310. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 17 votes in favour, 118 votes against. Let's start voting for Block 29, the exams between 311 and 325. The vote begins. These items were rejected with 9 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting for Block 30, Emena 314. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 50 votes in favour and 85 votes against. We're voting now on block 31, the exams between 55 and 191. The vote begins. This package was rejected with 53 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 32, items 10, 22, 37 and 315. The vote begins. This package was rejected with 42 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 33, reviews between 86 and 177. The vote begins. This package was rejected with 9 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 41 abstentions. We're voting block 34, it's 175. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 20 votes in favour, 74 against and 41 abstentions. We're voting block 35, it's 179. The vote begins. This item was rejected with 52 votes in favour and 82 votes against. We are now voting on the idea that the Bureau of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has accepted as a technical one. The vote begins. This item was adopted with 99 votes in favour, 20 against and 16 abstentions. And finally we are voting now on the text of the opinion, parts of the draft law that have not been discussed. The vote begins. This bloc received 65 votes in favour, 62 against and 8 abstentions. [[Perlongats applause. Pause.]] After the vote, the President of the Generality has decided to use the word briefly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.53.0	Pretty soon. Only a few seconds to thank the Members and Members for having made it possible to approve assumptions that would help us to make Catalonia a better country, advance in social, green, feminist and democratic transformations, with which I took the compromise to put my investiture in this chamber. I would like to thank all the Members and Members who have been able to do so, the Parliamentary Group in Comú May by agreement reached, the parliamentary groups in Esquerra Republicana and Junts for the work done, and also the Government and especially the Councillor Turned for the work done and then transferred it to all his staff on behalf of the whole Government and I believe that of all of us. And since it's probably my last intervention in this room this year, because it's the last plethora, taking advantage of it to wish them a good day, a good holiday and a better entrance to 2022, which makes us all better. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.54.0	Thank you very much. We suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.55.0	We shall resume the sitting on the fourth item on the agenda, the debate and the vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures for the year 2022. [[Draft law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures by 2022]] [[200-00004/13]] The debate will begin with the intervention of the parliamentary groups from major to minor, ending with the groups of Junts for Catalonia and Esquerra Republicana, to defend the reserved items and to position themselves on the items presented for the rest of the groups. I would remind you that this speaking time will be a maximum of fifteen minutes for each group and the vote on the opinion will be completed once the debate is over. Therefore, to begin with, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.56.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, we come to the debate and vote on the bill of measures, at the end of the procedure of the budget bloc. We arrive at the end of the health to which this processing has become long after weeks. As in this theatrical genre so close to Hispanic letters, characterized, among others, by unexpected changes, the suspension in increase and the entry and exit accelerated of characters in the scene, we have seen how the negotiation between the groups of the presumed majority or of investment or independence to the chamber began; how it came out of the scene the CUP, hours before the deadline of presentation of statements to the totality; how it entered into the scene a new political actor – the common ones – to the negotiation; how it came out of an agreement, and how, finally and surprisingly, out of the scene the Group of Junts, that it did not only attend the presentation of the agreement, but did not the same hosesseller of the economy, the decision-making authority. As we say in the debate on the issues at the totality of the law, the circumstances in which it will be approved in a few hours from now note and reaffirm that the lost decade goes into a situation of indefinite duration, with a government without a parliamentary majority that the harvest – remember that the CUP approved, the delay of the week to its extraordinary national assembly, that its parliamentary action is aimed at destabilizing the government – and a new member, the common ones, of which the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Catalonia does not seem to want to know anything about it. The conditions of instability and weakness of the government that lead inevitably to the adoption of norms that lack a political sense and a coherent country strategy, as I will then argue and as an example of this law of measures. Since our parliamentary group we have presented a statement to the whole of the bill because we considered, as we said, that there were substantial insurmountable elements. We highlighted six of them in that debate. In the field of urban planning, the modifications to the Law 1/2010, on urban planning, through Article 75 of the Law of Measures, concerning the formulation of proposals for master plans for plans by private parties. Thus, the modifications to the Law 31/2010, of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, through the article, in this case, 76 of the Law of Measurements, in relation to the lamination of competitions in urban matters of the metropolitan area, also regarding master plans. Secondly, with reference to Articles 40 and 42 of the Law on Measures, which amend legal provisions in matters of public service and which we consider, in the same way as the CTESC did, that they should not only not be dealt with in this Law, but that, moreover, they need the principle of collective bargaining. In the third place, referring to the promotion of equality between men and women, concretely to the calls of Mossos, Rural Agents and Bombers. Keeping, as a fan in this law, that you are empowered, instead of binding, to develop calls with reserve of places to promote equality in these bodies will not relax equality. Fourthly, the amendment through Article 49 of the Law of Measures..., pardon, of the Law of the Catalan Institute of Finance, so as to provide the ICF with banking file of market and enabling it to capture private passius. We do not share the way to bring about a modification of this magnitude for the back door, without the analysis of corresponding risks and the adoption of ad hoc measures to address these risks. It's not the way to process a change in this depth. In five places, for what it does in Article 54, it proposes the reform of the Administration by means of a plan of reduction and simplification of the Administration in a period of _months. We are convinced that it is neither through this law nor through the back door how this debate is to be carried out nor by this object, and that it denotes as much interest in the matter as what you held in the last legislature, in which this proposal was also part of the plan of government, and it was not carried out. And in the sixth place, with reference to the additional arrangement second and plan for closing and dismantling energy valorization plants. It seems to us, as we have expressed, not a fear, but a direct irresponsibility, without a clear definition of the country's waste management model that assesses that this is viable, that assesses if possible, without filling, of course, the country of residue abocators. These considerations have changed in the processing of the measurement law, and therefore, only with this, our position in respect of the law needs to be countered. But, Mr Councillor, as I said to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, where the section of the Department of Economic Affairs was discussed, this assumption and the law of measures were better, but they were also impeccable. And, in this sense, we want to highlight two examples, as we hear decisive ones. In relation to the items 761 and 763, joints of the groups of the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, Mitjáncăzăme 761 is modified the autonomous scale of the IRPF. In the debate on the premise, reference has been made. Unlike what has been explained, this does not turn out to be a change that improves fiscal progress and reduces the tax type to lower returns. In this case, the agreed measures between the municipalities and the Government are reinstated in fiscal year 2020, or, if not, it is not only that which is done through this task, since the reduction of the type in the lower section, from the 12th to the 10,5_per_cent, is accompanied by an increase of the IRPF from one point to the mid-range yields, from fourteen to fifteen_per_cent to the yields between 21,000 and 33,007_euro per year, and from three decimal places to those between 33,007 and 53,407_euro, from 18,5 to 18,8. It is, therefore, a measure that does not increase entries and penalizes mid-to-change returns from an IRPF reduction to lower returns. And let's not just say it, but it's statements, these last ones I've just read, by Mr. Javier Pacheco, Secretary General of Workers' Commissions. From a single point of view, the parliamentary group of the commons is overtaken by an increase in taxation to mean returns, a reduction in the entrances of the Government of Catalonia at the time when there is more need to guarantee public services, when there is more need for health care, education and social services, and, in the past, as the CTESC said, and in relation to public service, the principle of collective bargaining is obvious. We assume that the agreement in the preamble and in the law of measures is far beyond the obvious or public commitments. At the same time, it is difficult to hear the content in tax matters or to put them into agreements obtained for the commons, with star proposals like the country of trains. With the total amount of resources deposited via the project, you can get to build in the order of half a mile of trams. Four hundred_metres, approximately, depending on the cost per km of railway construction, to the Tarragona Camp tram; two hundred_metres to the Bages; fifty_metres to the Costa Brava – it is not bad–, and a few twenty_metres to the Pirinium or Ebre tram – twenty_metres is not bad. [[Greetings.]] It is no wonder that the UPC established itself as an objective to destabilize the government when, according to the report, one of the shields in the negotiation was that Councillor Giró's position was that the taxation was not on the table; but it turned out that it was on the table. Now, you make them smaller, they stay the way they were. Let's hope this time on a permanent basis. But the change element is the increase in mid-life returns. You see, according to what it does touch; according to what, no. In any case, we have to recognize your bargaining power, even though we disagree frontally on the content. He said earlier in the debate: "But what has been done with the SCP? I don't know how many things... I'll tell you right now: "But what happened to that counselor who didn't say weeks ago that he couldn't push the taxes? What happened to that counselor? And, for another band, I used to quote you before the intervention of the police officer Rawls. I don't know how you would see in your definition of distributive justice, too, this change in the average returns in taxation, which clearly altered and undermined progress in the generality's fiscal order. In any case, the position of our group in taxation has been explained many times. We need to improve progress and green taxation, but we need to do so by means of a comprehensive and rigorous approach, not by improvised measures and by changing our opinion by a hundred and forty degrees. This is a progressive and ecological tax reform, but it is not based on stickers and even measures and contradictions. We do not believe in this concept of continuous reform, which Mrs Vilalta mentioned before. The second point to which I referred, the 763, by means of which – and I say it literally – « during the presuppositionary exercise of 2022 will not be realized any type of operation that may entail a cost to the Government of Catalonia in relation to the Recreation and Turistic Consortium Vila-seca - Salou. As we say, the law can get in the way. And in this case, we would have to ask the Junts Group for Catalonia as they see it, even as they see it. Until now we knew Esquerra's position, which, while being the main group of the government, they have no position, or, if not, we have not been able to know it. And we also knew that Junts were in favour of development in the project territory. Now, finally, they will explain to us how they vote on motions, motions for resolutions in favour of Hard Rock, and today they vote in favour of this motion. For our part, we have presented thirty-eight reviews. They have not been approved in committee, and they will not be approved today with all certainty. Mr Giró said that in the debate we were asked whether there was nothing that could be saved in the press and in the law of measures, I asked them today: there was nothing, there was nothing left of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance that could be saved? Issues related to the updating of module tariffs in childhood services or adolescence in order to comply with the Government's commitments in this area; in relation to the reserved places for women in the safety nets, which I have previously mentioned; in relation to the residue, such as the use of phonery arids; in relation to or in the field of renewable energy; the improvement of the financing of social services in order to resolve historical infra-finance in this area, are those issues that we have presented and have been directly rejected by the Socialist Group and Unites pour Avançar. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is not bad for some assumptions of the « republican socio-vergency, which told us before the regant deputy. He said, a few minutes ago, that this law of measures lacks a political sense and a coherent country strategy. And he said this in relation to the assumptions that the Government has used to define government action and, by extension, the political sense of the premise of the law of measures, which should be in the service of social transformation, feminist transformation, ecological and democratic transformation. In relation to the first, it is difficult to reconcile a social transformation with the fiscal change that I have just commented: less recapitation and more..., or increase in mid-life returns. I insist, not only do we say it from our group, they are the statements of the Secretary General of the Workers' Commissions, Mr. Javier Pacheco. Feminist. Hardly defendable when they don't even want to tie the government's obligation to summon reserved places for women to achieve equality in the bodies like Mossos, Rural Agents and Bombers. Economic transformation. It is difficult to defend when in this law of measures it is yourself in relation to the 24/2020 Decree on renewable energies, but it is in the middle and it is not a fundamental element as it is to situate the public information process as determining the application of the new decree. Opens the door to property claims of projects in the process and is, in fact, a covert moratorium that halts the development of renewables. They give up going further in the transition towards the decarbonisation of energy generation and relegates us to follow Spain and Europe in the field of renewables. Also for what it does to the model of waste management, sealing and dismantling of energy valorization plants without defining model of waste management. I'm a Democrat. As well as having an impact on the debate on totality reviews, you have converted this bill of measures into a medium-sized bill that modifies up to sixty-four laws and standards, many of which are not subject to fiscal, financial or administrative measures. They refer to Parliament the right and responsibility to develop standards and to modify standards with the necessary debate and procedural guarantees of experts in matters. Sacrifice the democratic quality of this chamber in favour of a supposed legislative efficiency. It was hard for us to know what you're talking about when you're talking about a democracy strike. The abuse in the use of the measuring law is an authentic non-democratic abuse, but rather a violation of the democratic quality of Parliament. Support for Parliament's debate [[some applause]] questions such as urban planning legislation, environmental natural resources such as water, the development of large projects, believe me, is not a good example of democratic transformation. And what would we do? Or, rather, what will we do when we have the responsibility to govern Catalonia? In the area of taxation, as we have said, a tax reform of a global nature to achieve the objectives of progressive and green taxation. Review inefficient taxes and fight against tax fraud. In the law of measures, concrete, specific, for the fight against tax fraud; incomprehensible. Ecological transition – in line with the papers presented for our group –: a firm and determined bet for the development of renewables with respect and territorial balance. Municipalism: Respects the skills of the joints. Feminism: effectively promoting and linking equality in all areas of public service, especially in those that you do not do: Mossos, Rural Agents and the Bomber Cos. We have said on repeated occasions that Catalonia needed assumptions and a law of measures, but this law and this law of measures are far from what Catalonia needs; a law of measures that makes it less difficult to face those indispensable challenges for the future. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.57.0	Then and on behalf of the VOX Group, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.58.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Mr President, Councillors, Members... Well, we are already in the final phase of the budgetary process with this adoption of this law on fiscal, financial, administrative and public sector measures by 2022, commonly called the law accompanying budgets. And bearing in mind the nickname, after the approval this morning of the budget law, it is to be expected that this law will run, unfortunately, the same fate. Also, logically, our position before both laws is the same: of clear opposition. If we have already shown our opposition to the first draft of this law in the debate that took place in this room on 22 November, we should do so today with greater reason. After the change of partners by the secessionist government, numerous requests from the communist group of En Comú Puermes have been incorporated, most of them in the opposite direction to what Catalonia needs to emerge from the unfortunate situation in which it finds itself. This law will accelerate a little more the long process of decadence in which Catalonia has been sliding for years. Before we begin to talk about the content of the law, we believe it is essential to deal with two aspects of the budgetary process. The first of these is on matters governed by this law, which also the previous SGP speaker has made several references to this issue. It is true that it is a subject that has been discussed on several occasions, we have been complaining, and surely, because it will probably also be done by some of the groups that will intervene later, but we must once again record our protest that the Government is taking advantage of this law to amend numerous laws that have little or nothing to do with the budget that has just been adopted. In the preamble to the first version of the bill, the one that we discussed on 22 November and which, moreover, the Minister of Economic Affairs told us expressly, it was recognized in that preamble that sixty-four laws were being amended. Sixty-four laws. This irregularity, in our view, has been aggravated by the secessionist government's pact with the communist group, increasing the number of amended laws. So much so that, in the new recently published text, which contains these amendments, the figure has been deleted. He no longer talks about how many laws he amends; it seems that you don't even know how many he modifies, or you haven't had time to count, that we'll also talk about time. We must remember once again, as the previous spokesman has done, that this situation is a serious disregard for the legislative work of this Parliament. Instead of dealing individually with each of these legal amendments, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament, they all put them all in one bag, sixty and four more new ones, which no one has yet told. Moreover, in the short time available it is materially impossible to carry out an individualized analysis of each of these laws and the effects of their modifications. Of course, it is also not possible at that time to participate in the parliamentary debate of groups that may have an interest in or see affected by each of these legal changes. Secondly, this government has presented the bill to Parliament late, as we all know – it has been acknowledged – which has led to the urgent procedure. And what does this mean, to process a law through the emergency procedure? The shortening of deadlines, making the work of opposition parties even more difficult. Let's see what the calendar of this year has been. On 12 November, much later than expected, the bill was published. The deadline for tabling amendments in full is 22 November. That same day in the afternoon they were debated at the plenary session. We are talking here about the amendments that had been tabled until a while earlier. The deadline for tabling partial amendments is 13 December and is published on the same day. Eight hundred_five amendments have been tabled – eight hundred_five. Three days later, on 16 December, the eight hundred and five amendments were discussed in committee and voted on each of those eight hundred and five amendments. It is easy to imagine that, with such a short period of time, it is difficult to correct the correct criteria in each of these eight hundred_five amendments. Eight hundred_five amendments, three_days– eight hundred_five, three_days –: difficult. Well, we know, on the 17th the new text was published, which is supposed to be final, and today 23rd we are voting. All right. With these short deadlines, the extent and density of the bill, more than sixty-five amended laws – we do not know exactly how many – and the number of amendments tabled – eighty-five – it is easy to understand how difficult it is for parliamentary groups to do a good job of controlling the government, as the opposition does. We ask you, gentlemen of the Government, to exercise your function as a government, at least in this matter, and to comply with the law and submit every year the budget law together with the accompanying law on the date set. In this way, the parliamentary groups will be able to carry out our opposition work properly, unless what you are trying to do is to make it difficult for us or to deprive us of that right. With regard to the amendments, we have had the same result as the previous group, as the PSC: we have lost all votes. We're not surprised. We've grouped them together. And first of all, we have presented a number of tax measures. The last paragraph of the introduction of the preamble to the bill states: "The main content of the law is tax measures, although other administrative measures are also incorporated. There were eighty and I don't know how many laws, eighty and so many, right? The ones we had... "Others, huh? Let us therefore go to the main content of the law: fiscal measures, right? If already with the initial project we show our disagreement, with this we show it with even more impetus, we increase it. If we could vote twice, we wouldn't. To the increases in the fiscal pressure that the secessionist parties had initially established in order to continue with their process, we must add those which they have agreed with the Lords of En Comú Pomera to lend their support to them. And of all is known the passion shown by communist groups for fiscal voracity, just the opposite of what VOX represents. In this respect, we have tabled amendments to prevent them from creating new taxes on inheritance and donation tax; we have tabled an amendment to reduce substantially and we will support, we have supported, those that have been tabled by other parliamentary groups for the same purpose. The aim is for Catalan citizens to pay as little as possible for this tax until it can be definitively abolished. With regard to own taxes, we have also tabled an amendment for the Government of the Generalitat to submit, within three months, a plan for its reduction or abolition. As is known – I do not discover anything new – Catalonia is the region of Spain with more own taxes. In this same line of lowering the tax burden for the citizens of Catalonia, we oppose the creation of new taxes that they have agreed with the Lords of En Comú Pom, such as the tax on ultra-processed foods and some more than we have been commenting on this morning. And then the increase of some already existing, such as the application of the tax on empty housing also to individuals. With regard to the reduction of expenditure, given the distressing state of the Government's public purses, it should be a priority for his Government to reduce unnecessary expenditure, and in the discussions on the budget law we have given them many ideas on this matter. As an example, then, we have tabled an amendment to reduce that time limit which you had given by eighteen months, which you announced in article 54 of the draft law for the reduction of the institutional public sector. We have proposed to reduce it to three months, but already advance them that if they want to start tomorrow we can help them identify dozens and dozens of chiringuitos that are easily suppressable without anyone, except those who are hired there, miss them. In the same vein, we propose to reduce the number of positions in this institutional public sector, the so-called ‘squiring' ones, and, until it is decided whether or not each of them is closed, we propose to reduce those from fifteen to seven – it seems, with seven, more than enough. Although it was not a significant economic amount, it seems symbolic to us to prevent the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia from being able to devote itself to providing subsidies, thus creating unnecessary new spending. And, to end this superfluous spending block, we have tabled an amendment for the Government of the Generalitat to submit, within three months, a plan for the orderly closure of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and of all the media and organizations of any kind that depend on it– TV3, etc.. We have tabled another amendment to delete the additional provision, to take on a specific public service: the 061, Salut Respon. As has been said on other occasions, we, VOX, believe in public-private collaboration. We see no reason to take this step with this service and not with the hundreds of services provided by the private sector. We only see one: clientelism. And in addition, at the last minute, his new partners have added another service, 112, in the same line, the same direction. We believe that the separatist government is entering a very dangerous dynamic in which, apparently, it is exchanging concrete parliamentary support with measures to help groups supported by those same political groups. Finally, we propose the elimination of certain ideological expenditures related to the gender or environmental perspective. And here I want to mention one that also indicated the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word, which is about the plan of closure of incinerators, for which we have not been given, we have not been able to identify any reasonable alternative. We believe that the remedy is much worse than the disease. Finally, and as this is going to be the last plenary session of this year, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the Members and all the people who are watching us at this time, either on television or by any other means. But I would particularly like to extend this congratulations to all the people who work in the Catalan Parliament: the collective of ushers and the rest of the staff, the cleaning staff, the maintenance staff, the computer staff, the cafeteria, the Mossos d'Esquadra, and the other workers who have helped us so much and treated us so well – they, yes, so well – in this first year of our institution. To all of them, our thanks. Merry Christmas and happy New Year. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.59.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidature, the Member of Parliament, Ms Montserrat Vinyets, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.60.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. In the initial phase of approval of the accompanying law we have already presented a statement to the totality, and there we have already put in full what was supposed to touch trunk laws like that of urbanism, of water, of public finances, of assets, of public function, of agent, the municipal law of local rule, through the accompanying law; a law that, we remember, should only be limited to measures related to the assumptions. We are concerned that what we are very concerned about is that we have the parliamentary debate, the political debate, which is what we are here for, to read and to confront them with political arguments, because they are making expert appearances, because the debate is being moved to the street. Unfortunately, we've already had the debate very much escaped by the toga stage. We do not limit it, please, to the debate on the country model to make an abuse of the law of measures. You, the government, have not only predicted initial changes, have you? , at the beginning of the law, but you have also made changes in the process of issuing messages, including yourselves. And it's bad luck, or not, that, of so many legal norms that have been introduced, so we find that in the claus of national sovereignty, in the claus of emancipation we can't find any. With this reflection we want to respond to the intervention of Junts d'a matí, who asked if it was not that the CUP preferred a Catalonia in Spain, without singular projects like the Hard Rock, like the Olympic Games, like the Formula 1 circuit, then regret not having this fifty-two percent independenceist majority on the assumptions. Well, we've explained it to you sometimes: the country is diverse, fortunately, and we have different political plans to move it forward. Our political project is that of the culture of yes: + from yes to independence, from yes to sovereignty, from yes to habitation, from yes to decide on our own resources, on the redistribution of wealth. And most of the fifty-two_per_cent continues to exist in the exercise of the right to self-determination. And we observe the assumptions and, of course, in the national clause of sovereignty and emancipation, so, frankly, we find absolutely nothing in the accompanying law; we find an obedience to the constitutional and statutory rules. Therefore, the unit of independence is not played in the management of assumptions that are autonomous, but is played in the confrontation of the State and in the exercise of the right to self-determination. That's the previa, isn't it? That we had to do a little longer as a result of this morning's inquiry, we would focus on the measurement bill. Let us advance that we will vote against the papers presented for VOX, Ciutadans and the Popular Party, which no longer consist in the text. And, for what it does to the text submitted for the government, so we want to make some considerations. You see, the whole series of measures that had already fallen precisely as a result of the work done by the CUP in negotiating the assumptions has ended. We will convince the Government of the withdrawal, at its initial proposal of text, of aspects such as the Fira de Barcelona, that it is declared to benefit from a whole series of expropriations, or also of the forecasts that it is fan in matter of ITV. Unfortunately, however, all that had been suppressed has emerged in this process of issues and will count on the benefit of the political party of the commons. The content of the law is very extensive, and we would refer to the issues we find most relevant. For example, for what it does to the modification of the water law, and in relation, concretely, to the modification of the water canon. So this final text introduces a novelty, which is that during the years 2020, 2021 and 2022 is applicable to local authorities the non-requirement of tax debts for the concept of water canon and tax penalties to entities providing water if, for reasons of public service, they proceed to rescue or intervene the service. We have not just heard why they should stop claiming public debts and penalties to those who have incomplete, and this counters it with rescues of servants. The water supply must be rescued immediately without entering any type of market. For the purpose of changing the tax on empty dwellings, we determine how the tax on physical persons who have the condition of great tenors is to say, those who have more than fifteen dwellings, here they will find our vote in favour. For the purpose of changing the tax law, we want to highlight – because many, many, of taxes are changed – the tax for the performance of the inspection activity in the field of consumption to enterprises providing basic services. In this service, we understand that, if this fee is paid, what this inspector activity is also for all those real estate brokering activities, such as the sale and rental of housing. And here we have presented a statement, asking that the Consumer Code also consider this activity to be a basic service that has a direct impact on the lives of many people in this country. And, therefore, we place them to vote favorably on our exams. For what it does in relation to the transferred taxes, the Government introduces a whole series of estimates relating to the inheritance and donation tax, which are basically limited to the adjournments, and does not touch much more in the matter of transferred taxes. In this sense, we have indeed introduced a whole series of forecasts in relation to the IRPF, where we have laid on the table, right? , increase the tax pressure to higher returns, which are those that cover the five-per-cent of the country. And we have also placed on the table touch the minimum tax-free on assets and proceed to a 100_per_cent bonus to public writings made by housing cooperatives in the promotion of cooperative housing. We are missing, in the matter of taxes, a wider deployment of the climate change law, as could be the tax on large ships and the tax on emissions of greenhouse gases resulting from certain economic activities. For what it does to the forecasts relating to the Catalan Institute of Finance, we will vote affirmatively because it introduces the possibility that it is made available through private institutions. But we also understood that it was necessary to go a little further and form this entity as a trunk piece of the country. And we, for example, have introduced the possibility for the Catalan Institute of Finance to provide funding to housing cooperatives because, before the systemic and persistent inactivity of the Public Administration in resolving the right to housing, society has no choice but to organize itself and take the lead..., to self-guard itself in order to secure this right. In the field of renewable energy – another issue that we have dealt with extensively in this Parliament – special attention deserves the amendment that they make to Decree 24/2021, speeding up the deployment of renewable energy, which was to amend Decree 16/2019, of urgent measures for climate change. As you know, the Decree 16 of 2019 wanted to respond to environmental problems, but what it did, in terms of solving problems, was to generate more: it meant a setback in environmental protection, it favored speculative bubbles, it was a disaster in agreement with the territory. The CUP, at the time, voted against this decree. Then there was a consensus that this decree was not a positive one, it was not a good decree, that it was a matter of reviewing it, and that is why the investment agreement with Esquerra Republicana agreed to a moratorium on the decree; a moratorium that never arrived and that ultimately culminated in this decree 24/2021. What's more upsetting, isn't it? , and critical is that, while the Social Rights Council made a speech that this was a decree of consensus with the entities of the territory, of a very elaborate and very consensual work, at the same time that we were validating this decree in your parliament, by the back door, therefore, there were drafts to this accompanying law, precisely, and what they were doing was to lower the content of Decree 24/2021; therefore, detailing the few better ones contemplated in this decree. Today we say: you have the opportunity to express this provoked chick, and that is why we have submitted to you an alternate text in the form of an issue, and we ask you to reflect and vote; they vote in favour of the territory and vote in favour of the oligopolises. More items to which reference should be made: airport law. Now they're introducing the shape of any airfields. Now can you make possible airfields with only a statement responsible for the operator and the landowners? Honestly, we don't see a lot of scrap. For what he does to another law that you touch in a very truncated way..., is the law of urbanism; dedicate more than two pages to touch the law of urbanism. The laws of urbanism, therefore, have a vocation of permanence in time and cannot change to baptisms, because this only generates confusion and legal chaos. And judicial chaos always, sadly, favors the same, which represent very determined interests. Therefore, we find that it is very bad legislative technique to play the way you have touched the law of urbanism. In this law of urbanism, for example, they touch a lot of the pot of tourism, all the litigation in the matter of tourist floors, etc. This, bearing in mind that we have a preliminary draft law on tourism on the table, where, from the UPC, we have a lot of intentions to deal with, so what we understand to have been clearer is to process all of these in your parliament at the same time, all of these changes in the urban law, at the same time that we in your parliament were dealing with the tourism law, so that we could have had it, in an extensive way, right? , a map of which would be the final regulation. Another frontal criticism we make of all the forecasts you have on urban planning is the change you make to urban planning. It will now turn out that physical and legal persons will be able to submit proposals for the formulation of urban master plans only accompanied by a memoir of that which is understood by territorial interest. What is a territorial interest? What is this indeterminate legal concept? Who will determine what is the territorial interest in an area? A private promoter will determine who is the territorial interest? Already in your moment you came in... it was approved, wasn't it? , by law, whatever the strategic residential areas were. It turned out that they were a failure, with the passage of time; they already denounced at their time and turned out to be an absolute failure. And you continue to make, once decreed, changes in urbanism and introduce rare figures that they do to draw up all this matter. On the issue of residues, a moratorium has also been introduced; a moratorium that we understand from the UPC is not enough. And, therefore, we would also place in the plenary today that it is voted in favour of the moratorium on the law as drafted for our parliamentary group, because the report that we present is the one that has been agreed for all entities working in the field of waste management. And it's clear that if you don't incorporate the moratorium, we don't incorporate the mouthpieces, all that incentive effect of reducing the burden that the moratorium could have will be completely unravelled. Apart from the fact that if we do not vote in favour of the text we are proposing, we are ignoring the resolution of 2020 made by this very Parliament of Catalonia. We also have to refer to the ‘play, between comets, in relation to the AMB; that is to say, at the time of the shipment they presented a thought in which it seemed, right? , that you make a bet for a municipality of water, but inexplicably this item has finished as many of the final text. And to me come to the head the words that Mrs Regan said this morning, quoting Josep Fontana. I don't know which interests protect by taking this item off in a surprising and inexplicable way. Therefore, before the withdrawal of this concern that they have made at the last hour, we do place them again to vote favorably on all those forecasts that we have presented since the UPC in the form of an issue, which is basically the modification of the rules of works, activities and services, that it is in the interests of all those municipalities that want to carry out a process of water municipalityization to make it easier and clearer. So, if what we want to do is to municipalize water, it's very good that we're putting in the service of joints advices through electricity, but the thing that touches softly on the bone and that really has an impact is to modify all those aspects of the law that they suppose through, let's get over the process of municipalization. Finally, we also put them to the affirmative vote, don't we? , the moratoria we propose in the process of derived planning that remains under the plan of urban planning metropolity that involves the urbanization of unconsolidated areas while we do not arrive at the moment when it is made to the final approval of the plan of urban planning metropolity. This area is already very saturated with urban planning and a moratoria. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.61.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.62.0	Well, then good afternoon to everyone. We are now discussing the law of tax measures and the different points that have been put forward. As we have already commented at the time, the law of fiscal, financial and administrative measures always, at least, we look at it with prevention; with prevention, trying not to be a law that is used to modify the legislative framework and to place things that would theoretically have to be in the ordinary parliamentary process, with the necessary debates. Therefore, this is a first prevention that we always have and that the government inevitably always tries to force the machine to the maximum. But it is also obvious that the law of fiscal, financial and administrative measures is necessary to be able to implement some of the questions that lie in the law of assumptions and, therefore, play and have to be addressed, so to speak, in parallel. That's why we in the debate on this law, on the bill of measures, have placed a whole series of elements in the negotiations we've made with the government, huh? I will not repeat everything that we have commented on this morning in relation to the negotiations that we have had with the Government with this intention to try to equip the assumptions initially presented with greater ambition and greater compromise, and that with this perspective we have placed some proposals in the negotiation and we have gone into positions until we finally reach an agreement that we value satisfactory. A satisfactory agreement, because we have introduced things that they have to do with the material reality of people, with the strategies of transformation of the country. A parenthesis: Mr. Riba, with the money we have put in the assumptions, according to assumptions, in relation to the trains doesn't give for four kilometers. Because to do four kilometres of trains you don't just have to do the planned studies; you have to see where it goes, you have to think that it might be necessary to expropriate certain territorial areas where you have to set up lives, you have to do some technical background analysis, you have to see what the necessary materials can cost to implement. Therefore, we can make all the joke we want, but here the important are the great strategic movements that lie in this agreement that we have put in value, more than the concrete and material questions. Because without great stratific moves, we'll stand still where we are and not move forward, not four miles or a mile or a mile. Calen important stratègique movements. It's what we've done, and it's what we've agreed on. Parentheses closed in relation to this. What have we placed in the debate of the law of fiscal, administrative and financial measures? In relation to taxation. In relation to taxation we have placed things, as we say, in relation to green taxation, healthy taxation and fair taxation. In relation to green taxation, CO2 emissions, such activities; the issue of large vessels is situated; the issue of healthy food, this new imposition that the Government is committed to working, to studying to see to implement on ultra-processed foods, which has to do with public health, which has to do with the salvation of infants, which has to do with a healthier society. It's an important tax. It's not a tax they want to tax, it's not a tax they want to collect; it's a tax they want to change consumption habits to make a healthier life, to improve society's public health. We have addressed some of the IRPF's questions. We said it at the beginning, we know what the political arithmetic of this Parliament is, we know that it was difficult to move forward in a major progression of the IRPF. We know, because we all know each other. We know the different formulations of the different political formations that configure this Parliament, including that of the Socialist Party, which Mr Riba explained. Therefore, we know what were the difficulties in moving forward in progress. But we've also addressed some issues. First of all, we can recover the kind of tax that the Constitutional Court has misused. We got it back. The way you liked us the most? Possibly not, but we've recovered a right that you've brought down, and that's bad with the Constitutional's judgment. But we have introduced important things into the IRPF that cannot be denied: the treatment of single-maritime families as well as the families named. This is an important right, it's an important recognition. Single-maritime families, the majority of women, have a good share of them in vulnerable situations. This recognition is important in terms of IRPF. And we, too, in the negotiation, got a settlement that is also in the papers: to equate the bonding relationships with that of the children in the inheritance tax. This is also an important issue, because people, families see that the fact of mating, the mating relationship doesn't have to be differentiated from that of the child. And if they want to, they can do it, but they have the right, the people to gather, to have a similar treatment. We have put questions in relation to territorial issues. We have placed no compromises to allocate no public euro to Hard Rock. We're against Hard Rock, we've always said it by active and passive. But the debate that we have been able to put in place, the thought that we have been able to put in place, that we have been able to agree is that there will not be a public euro in 2022 destined for Hard Rock. We will continue to fight because this project does not shoot forward; it is not fired forward, because we believe it is an outdated model, it is an economic activity formula that has nothing to do with the challenges the country has, neither with occupation nor with territorial development. We got a share: not a public euro. We will continue to fight because this project is not developed, do not pull forward, because we do not share it. We have also placed important questions in relation to internalisations of certain services that we consider to be directly managed for the public administration: 061 and 112. The prospects for its future internalisation are set out here, with the concessions, the necessary studies and so on. It's located in this law. As it is also situated to provide the Catalan Agency of Water with those technical and human instruments that facilitate those local administrations, that those municipalities that want to direct water management can do it; they can do it..., the technical supports that help them to do it are eased. The difficulties many times are technical, of disconnection, of administrative difficulties in order to be able to address this reality of many municipalities. To make the ACA have the technical, organizational and material tools to help those municipalities that want to take it, we believe it is a positive element. We are also in agreement with a statement that is also in the law of measures, which makes reference – and we have already commented on it this morning – to the addition that covers – aid or gratification, let us say it as we say – the working people of the health net services. The people of the nether services, the women who have made these nether services – because they are mostly women – in the centers of the Siscat. It will be a real, economic, material recognition, as have other health collections. He did not hold the gifts of the net; he did not hold it at that time. But we've managed to negotiate that this is happening and that it's looking like this. And that's important. It's a small collection of names, you don't have to reach five thousand people, but it's a collection that you can dignify, that you can recognize that your tasks are essential. Without these people, without these working women who have been at the edge of the cano at the time of the state of alarm, it is difficult for the health services to work; if there is no one clean, it is difficult to keep the care centers or ICUs or the different health services sterilized. It was necessary and important to be able to make this recognition and it was achieved in agreement and it was placed as a concern in the law of measures. And there is also another question that is also important for us: that young extolls do not lose their performance when they have or find a job. It can't be. Because if you lose your performance when you find a job, we may be disincentived to get into the job market. Because, unfortunately, we know what the job market is like in our country: the job market is precarious, it's unstable, it's poorly paid. If you tell a person to get the benefit for a one-month, fifteen-day, four-day, four-hard job, he will give up the job to keep the benefit. What we've done is a temporary suspension while we find work. And that's important. We encourage you to take care of yourself, because you know that taking care of yourself will not lose your job in case you lose your job. Because, sadly, this instability can lead him to lose his job. And if he loses his job and loses his performance, he'll hardly want his job. Therefore, it is also important to have achieved this agreement and to be able to achieve it with a goal. The young extolls have to have a temporary suspension while they're working. They cannot lose their performance permanently, because it would be to get them to lose this will, this need, this opportunity to find work. We have also placed ourselves in the negotiations and we have granted – and we have also placed ourselves as a concern in the Tax Measures Act, because it cannot be otherwise – the abolition of the fee for obtaining professional certificates of professional accreditation. This is a very important measure for the proper functioning of the labour market. This is a very important measure for business modernization. This is a very important measure, too, because people who are out of work today can get into work on conditions. To be free is not to walk. Many active workers, many people with previous work experience do not get this certification of professionalism not only because of the bureaucracy problems, which will also be solved, but also because they do not want or can pay the corresponding fee. Gratuity in obtaining the certification title will bring about the reality of existing professional qualifications, and this will make it easier for the occupants to know who are the professionalities that exist, for the unemployed to have the recognition of what they know how to do in order to be able to offer it on the job market. And, therefore, this must somehow facilitate the functioning of the labour market, of the occupation, of the business modernization, because it can have these qualifications to suit also the production processes and the innovations and such. There is also a measure in relation to administrative questions which also need to place it clearly and which was a measure to facilitate the management of human resources, of seedlings of many in local areas, of many local administrations. And it is the creation of the technical class of group B. It may seem that it is also a theme "walking, but many in the locals, many joints had difficulty in managing their plants, their human resources, especially those working in bressol or similar schools, which, in not having recognized this professional classification, are being introduced to forms of job instability and precariousness. In short, they facilitate, with the creation of this figure, of this technical class of group B, these elements of human resources management. And we have also placed in the negotiation and agreement, and also in the discussions, the creation, within the body of superior titles of the Generality of Catalonia, of the speciality of the environment. A long demand for the environment, for people who have more than twenty-five years of age who have taken this title and who cannot gain access to employment, because there is no such reality and, therefore, they are engaged in a situation of instability, temporality, inter-internship and, therefore, they are in the void. The creation of this specialty, of this recognition, in the body of superior titles, of this specialty of environment must facilitate job stability and, obviously, it must also allow the management of human resources to be improved, so to speak, of the plants of the Generality and the technical services, in short, right? Therefore, we believe that in the law of measures we have been able to improve on the initial proposals and we have been able above all to introduce, through these points which I have been putting and some other more questions – but these clearly – we have been able to put concrete proposals, concrete measures, which have to do with concrete problems, which will in some cases improve the lives of the people. We've been talking about professional accreditations. We've been talking about the cleaning women of the health services. We have talked about concrete questions, but also some that improve our country's taxation from the point of view of this green, healthy taxation. Also from the point of view of some better introduced into the functioning of the IRPF. We know that there is room for work in taxation; we already say it in the morning: there is room for work in taxation; in the very first, but above all in the framework of a comprehensive general tax reform, which we should do in the State sphere and in which Catalonia must participate with its own proposal. We need a comprehensive tax reform that avoids this career, this devaluation spiral that we often have in taxation. Therefore, as we did in the morning, we will also facilitate the approval of this law of measures with our abstention. We believe that we have contributed to its better with the ideas we have set up, that we believe they are useful for the people, also, obviously, useful for the country, for the conjunction of the Public Administration, because we have also introduced elements that go beyond the Administration of the Generality, which also facilitate, facilitate municipal administrations... Surely there are more things to do, but also time is long to continue doing politics and to continue improving the things of people's lives and things. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.63.0	Then, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.64.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Giró, Counsellor, it is my turn to repeat, now, with the accompanying law, and the arguments of this morning are perfectly valid, obviously, for this late; even though there are elements, let us say it, obviously distinct, of which is the mark of a law essential for the proper deployment of a law of assumptions. Therefore, there are some aspects that they want to see above all with the municipal sphere, that we, from Ciutadans..., which again say what he was commenting this morning: we are the parliamentary group that we have most discussed at this accompanying law, with a difference; also in the combination of the two laws, both to the law of assumptions and to the accompanying law, but above all in this case the difference is considerable. Above all, because we have made a task, which we believe is, if not, laudable, with the territory and with the assemblies, with our representatives throughout Catalan geography, who have conveyed their concerns, their concerns, their preferences, and we have embodied them in our papers. And, in this sense, we have gathered a discomfort, a certain disenchantment for a part of the city of Catalonia, represented by these Ciutadan governors in the territory, who tell us, for example, that there is a very poor functioning of the health system in primary care, that there is a very poor functioning of structures that are basic for our welfare state. Also, returning to the question that this morning, the question of the names "baracones", in which many of the students of our community study, therefore, worry enormously about our directors, worry enormously about an important part of the citizenship of Catalonia, and from Ciutadans, we have wanted to shape, we wanted to make clear this concern to our directors. On the other hand, I felt here the speech of Joan Carles Gallego, the representative of the commons, and felt the full effect that an ideological climate is taking place in Catalonia, contrary to the business world, contrary to private initiative, in short, contrary to the productive economy and the economic development of our community, which I think is extremely worrying. Not often, we agreed, we went both the president of my group, Mr Carlos Carrizosa, as I did to the delivery of the 250-year commemorative medals of Foment. And that day I got the impression that between the Catalan enterprise there is a certain perception that from the political life, from the rulers of the Generality, there is a certain lack of understanding of the enterprise, there is a certain lack of understanding of this private initiative, which is fundamental, precisely, for the economic development of our land, of our community. And I think it is a huge injustice that this ideological climate that surely imposes the most extreme positions of the anti-capitalist world or of the world of the most radical left, imposing itself on our public debate, because, I insist, entrepreneurs are a fundamental part of our industrial fabric, our social fabric, our civic associationism and our economy, in short, and it does to me that this is not always likely to be recognized from the different administrative institutions. That's why, when I hear trembling speeches about what Barcelona World or the Hard Rock project has to represent in Tarragona, so I'm missing out, because I think, I insist, that it's not reasonable for you to have agreed – if more is not what I understand – with the commons that there will be no public reversal for the Hard Rock. If that's really what I recognize, counsel, that maybe it's a bit of a lack of expertise, but I didn't know how to get to the bottom of whether you really bought into this or not with the commons' party, so I think it's an authentic mess, and I say it with all respect and all willingness to collaborate. I think it is not reasonable for the government to give up projects that are important for the economy of our community because of an ideological climate imposed against the business, and even supporters of economic decline, which is an authentically inverse thing in any other direction of the world. I have not heard any other policies from other autonomous communities. I recognize that I do not have enough knowledge of what is happening all over the world, but it does not make me the effect that it is, let's say, the most popular speech the speech of economic decline that defend its members of the CUP legislature and their members of the assumptions of the commons. It seems to me to be an authentic disarray, I say again, the fact of defending this vision so..., let's say, with so many fears towards the business world, that, I insist, it is a fundamental part of the Catalan economy. From this point of view, I would ask that the Government have clearer who are the priorities of our economy and not so much the priorities for its continuity in the face of the Generality. Also from our assemblies there are complaints – in general, from our municipal groups – of the lack, also, of funding of the schools. There is a lack of funding, which is, logically, derived from how resources are drawn from other parties that should go here, but they end up being destined for superfluous questions, which, in our opinion, do not really have any meaning. And we also found in this accompanying law a question that seems especially important to us: the claim to convert the Catalan Institute of Finance into a public bank. We have many reservations about the suitability of the formula, because we have already seen what has assumed our country, in Spain and also in our community, which are the caixas or the bank in public hands. We have many reservations, which I think are justified with the facts, but in any case, even if it could be an achievable objective – not plausible, but it does – to convert the ICF, the Catalan Institute of Finance, into a public bank. But, of course, the way in which you intend to do so, through, let us say, various pre-emptive measures or various privileges held by the banking entities, such as the fact that you are now able to dispose of your movable and immobile assets without prior administrative authority, makes it all the more effective that this has much to do with your willingness to serve, to use, to harm, in short, this institution, an illegitimate patrimony of an institution that should be responsible in the financial system of our community, to do, therefore, for example, what you have done with the trusts of the authors of the anniversary to the democracy of the year 17. Therefore, no thanks are given for this claim to make this misuse of the ICF. We believe that this will is, once more, an attempt to adulterate the ultimate goal of institutions. And that's why we think we should rethink this objective. On the other hand, we believe that there are aspects, so – I was commenting on it before, Mr. Counsellor – that they have not been taken into account enough with this accompanying law nor with the law of assumptions, as we said, is the economic cycle that we will have from the year you see. We are now seeing, at the end of the year, how the cove is hitting again and has not just allowed the Catalan economy and that of Spain's joint to fall or to recover normality, and I think that this has not been sufficiently predicted, it has not been sufficiently contemplated in these accounts and with this accompanying law, which tended to a certain joy or a certain frivolity, as it commented this morning. And from this point of view, I think the most reasonable would have been to consider possible contingencies. And they didn't. Mr. Counselor, before I told you, I was talking to you about our conversation with representatives, in this case, about the night world, but also about the world of restoration, and there is a real despair in the world of restoration and also about the night world, because of the way it was treated in these months or this year and middle, this year and middle that the pandemic lasts. I believe that they are the key sectors for the Catalan economy, I think they are precisely sectors that have pulled out the car on many occasions, and they have had a great deal of importance in the good behaviour of our economy, and it does not seem to me to be just that they are getting out of the way, that they are underprivileged..., in the best sense of the word; I do not say that this is a perverse or immoral thing, but that they are underprivileged or poorly cared for, when they are sectors, I insist, that they are food-giving and that they are oral for an important part of Catalonia's citizenship, for many families, for hundreds of Catalan families. In the end, counselor, there is a question that seems to me to be particularly worrying about the agreement or what has transcended from the government's agreement with the commons, which is that, far from putting this tendency, let us say, to make a fiscal pressure that does not bet on the rest of Spain and probably does not bet on our western democratic environment – because, I insist, comparison with the Community of Madrid, comparison with communities like now..., to all communities that are governed by non-liberal parties, huh? –... Catalonia continues to feel the autonomous community that has the most propitious taxes, continues to feel the autonomous community that has, for example, the highest type of IRPF, all the way down to make them lower. And, therefore, I believe that this is something that we could solve or that should be solved from our fiscal capacity, from our tax capacity as an autonomous community. And that makes me the effect that there is no intention of doing so, because, let's just say, when you look at it... at the time of making agreements, you look at partners like the CUP, partners like the commons, who have a vision of economic reality, so, very little support for economic development and who have other priorities that I believe will greatly damage Catalonia's economic progress. This downsizing of the IRPF type's lower returns I think is minute sin; it's not enough, it's obviously not enough. Let's just keep on being under... above all, more or less, of the Spanish mid-spanish. And I think from this point of view, the government would have to make a real effort to stop, in the end, from harming the lower returns of our community. And, in this sense, I insist, counselor, that the fact that we follow the autonomous community that the more taxes it is not holding on to. I, look, the other day – and forgive me for explaining the anecdote to you – I took a taxi, and the taxi driver, very kind – who, of course, we talked about before the topic of language and so on – that he was a taxi driver who was manifest..., even though we talked in the castle, because it's something that goes well, and one day you talk in the castle and another in català, he told me, with a clear accent..., he was a man who was obviously Catalan speaking..., he showed very critical – I say as I observe – with the same Catalan autonomy. It has been shown to be in favour, let us say, of deeply limiting the powers of Catalan autonomy. And I consider myself an autonomous firm, because I believe in the policy of weights and counterweights, of controls between powers, of checks and balances, in short, I said to him: "No, man, no. But, no... what we can't do is end autonomy. And he said to me, "Yes, of course, we are paying the highest taxes in Spain, in Catalonia, and we are paying the taxes that pay the rest of the Spanish equals, the national or the state, and we are paying, to some taxes that are absolutely disproportionate to Catalonia. The feeling that you, with your fiscal policy, are greatly damaging Catalan autonomy is a feeling that I would not say that it is very extended to Catalan society, but that, logically, you have a lot of preaching among many sectors of Catalan society, that you see, with growing despair, that you have no interest in lowering taxes, but all the opposite, creating a type of tax, as in your agreement with the commons. And I believe that this does not favor this idea in absolute, I insist, to consider a government responsible, with a very considerable level of competence, as is the Government of the Generality; it does not favor in absolute need of transparency, this need for the retention of accounts that we have before the citizens. Because you, as rulers, have the responsibility to hold back all and each of the euros you have as current expenditure of the Generality, beyond the payment of the debt, which, of course, is another aspect of reality that concerns us enormously. It is always more for a life of debt, and you continue to insist on a life of public debt, a life of public deficit; to live, in short, a hypertrophy of public administration. And I really believe that the reflection that we should be doing is up to what point the Catalan economy, the Catalan society, is advancing with a mastodontic structure of state structures – yes, because the Generality was in Catalonia – they are mastodontic. I sincerely believe that this idea so in vogue in journalistic circles of fiscal hell, of which we kick the citizens of Catalonia in relation to the rest of Spain, should have ended. It's time, once and for all, to think about the productive economy. It is time to make an authentically oriented policy towards sustainable economic growth, towards an economic growth that does not leave anyone behind, towards an economic growth that is respectable, logically, with the most needy, but that does not follow a growth per defect, because it seems that this is an expansionary assumption that there is almost a democratic requirement to present before citizenship. On the contrary: I think we need to be more responsible, we need to have a lot of information about the reality of our community and the country's neighbourhood. Catalonia is a community with great opportunities, with great virtues, but we need to know what fiscal policy corresponds to and needs Catalonia, and I think it's not exactly..., or rather the opposite, which you are applying. Thank you, Counselor. Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.65.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Subsequently, and on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.66.0	Thank you, President. When we ask ourselves or ask ourselves how to define fiscal policy in Catalonia, I think it is advisable to answer three questions. The first: does Catalonia respond to the definition of fiscal hell? It's a tough description, and I, in particular, like to measure words. I say yes, it answers the description of fiscal hell: between heaven, which would be the zero taxes own of the Community of Madrid, and hell, which are the nineteen here, would be purgatory, which are between seven and ten that have some autonomous communities. But what is here is absolutely unheard of, and also unheard of, in any European society. There's a lot of talk about Scandinavia. It is true that there is a high fiscal pressure there, but that I am not compared to the services they provide there with a fiscal pressure similar to that here. Two: is Catalonia's fiscal policy progressive, as should be presumed to be a self-styled progressive government? No, definitely not. The paradigmatic example is the CO2 tax, which imposes on the most humble, on those who cannot buy an electric car, neither modern nor copy because they have no money, and that is why they have that of their whole life; it charges especially on those carriers who have a van of more than 20 years and 400.000_kilometres; but they do not have it for nostalgia noventa, they have it because they have no money to buy a new one. So, progressive taxes, nothing. Three: Does Catalonia's fiscal policy respond to the concept of confiscation taxes? Yes, quite bluntly. The rise in the pandemic of inheritance tax – not a seventeen_per_cent, as it was published in some medium, no; it multiplied in some sections by 1,700, which are different things – is an unprecedented immoral decision. Besides seeing how your parents died, the Generalitat came to give you an axe at the worst time. And all of this is made up by you with an IRPF discount from the absolutely ridiculous autonomic stretch. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Giró, ridiculous. Because I've done the math, I'm not fooled. And I've done the calculation for income between 25,000 and thirty thousand euros a year. With the discount you pose, it doesn't give you for cinema and popcorn. Either cinema or popcorn, but for both things it doesn't give you, with the tax rebate that you pose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.67.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Jordi Munell MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.68.0	Thank you, President. President, advisors, economic advisors – in particular – deputies and deputies... Well, I don't know whether to start with hell or go directly to some republic of these examples... [[Rialles.]] In any case, I start with the principle. Thank you, thank you to everyone who has made it possible for us to reach this plenary with the assumptions and with the law of measures and follow-up of the assumptions. At the end there is a lot of work, a lot of work of the teams that have been appreciating the different proposals, the government's own, which have been negotiated with the Catalonian Group in Commun... And, therefore, here is a lot of work from each department and also from the Department of Economics, in particular, and from all the Members involved. So, thank you to everyone who makes it possible for us to get here. Surely it is not the success of any one hundred percent, because, in fact, it is a premise and a law of companionship that we have to do with coalition culture. And, as we said at the time of the defence or the non-defence of the threat to the totality, surely with a group, which are the CUP, which did not want to continue with the negotiation, and since the government has sought another parliamentary support in order to move forward, with a presupposition and with a law of follow-up absolutely necessary in the situation that the country has and on this expected exit from the pandemic that is affecting us. So, I repeat, thank you all. The accompanying law that we are now trying to approve the drafts and that I am pulling forward... so let's remember that there have been more than eight hundred drafts to the accompanying law, of which one to fifty are of the appropriate groups that we support the Government, more Catalonia in Comú Pueblo. So, as we say, there's really a lot of work going on. And he also points out that there have also been many entities of different types that make us get to parliamentary groups, but also to councils, requests of all kinds to be able to correct or to be able to read, in fact, articles of laws or regulations that affect them. And, obviously, it's not all possible to do it, and it's less possible to do it many times because there's a lot of time or there's a lot of other commitments. I, in any case, also encourage everyone, the business, social, economic entities of the territory that have brought forward proposals and concerns..., so that doesn't end here. Today we approve certain points to accompany the assumption that we approved this morning, but... I therefore encourage those entities that today do not see it reflected in their concrete request to continue working through parliamentary committees to work on these proposals, which are really interesting and positive, and which will certainly improve on the day-to-day lives of citizens. I therefore encourage them, the entities, as I said, to continue working with parliamentary groups, through committees, and not to wait until fifteen days for the next assumption of the year 23. Because in many cases the process is complex and needs to be analysed from the legal and legal point of view, it needs to be analysed from the point of view of the legislation that is in force for each department, and it has been analyzed after its economic viability for the Economic Department. And so, sometimes, when you get things the day before you close the deadline for filing in the register, it's impossible, and sometimes it's things, like I said, really interesting, huh? Therefore, from here this message forward, therefore, to begin working already immediately, when we have approved this premise and this accompanying law. I will also repeat what I said on the day of the totality debate. It's repeated again today, isn't it? : "The law of escort is the cove of tailors that stands there at all. Well, one thing is certain, and I've already recognized, as a group that we support the government, that it is. It's the place where we're doing corrections or better at procedures or articles or apart from articles, but, well, in any case, it's not something we've invented that we're now supporting the government, but... I've been setting examples, since the year 2008-2009, with another different coalition, which is also ugly. And, therefore, if there is any group that insists on criticizing this fact, then I also encourage you to start saying it and working it from the point of view of the Parliamentary Rules from the 1st generation, not when we are back in the year you see here, discussing the 2023 assumption. As..., this morning also the MP of the PSC said: "It is that we have no room to make moves in the presuppositional parties of the departments. Well, in any case, it's not a criticism that comes out fifteen days before pressupost 2023. In any case, if there is a proposal that the parliamentary group makes, then it is working in its parliament and it is discussing whether these different groups and those that can make up the majority agree to change it or not. Therefore, this feeling, too, forward. The other issue that arises here is the fiscal pressure. We also spoke to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. We also talked about the day of the whole debate. He says: "This is a presupposition and a law of accompanying with greater fiscal pressure. I don't think that's today's headline. In fact, this accompanying law and the papers presented... in fact, as the new fee I think there is the fee or the fee of the memory by 2022 of the fee for ultra-processed foods. In any case, it's to correct an externality about the salvation of certain social habits, isn't it? , as happened in other cases, as I explained, with the topic of sweet beguds or how it can pass with the environmental themes. It is intended to correct habits or transform society into a better society, so, well, education, and knowledge, through information, but also through fiscal punishability, certainly, isn't it? But it doesn't have to be that bad, when we've also seen other autonomous communities and other countries doing the same thing we've done here with some other taxes. So it doesn't have to be something extraordinarily the result of the tax hell they tell us we are, does it? And, in fact, also, as we say, in the fiscal pressure – Councillor Giró explained this this morning–..., in the wake of the accompanying law which is introduced is a new fiscal tram and separates a fiscal tram, in fact, as a result of which the Constitutional Court annulled the reform which had been carried out when the budget for 2020 was approved. Therefore, what we are trying to do is avoid an interference of a court on the ability of our Parliament and our country to legislate in tax matters. That we've already got a pocket, huh? , because – we have already said so, too – the ninety-five per cent of the taxation takes the country from the side, and our little margin of taxation after the rebat and the tomb to the Constitutional Court. So, what do we have to do? So... fiscal imagination. I assume that the Councillor Giró and his team, and with the companies of Catalonia in Comú, have been able to invent this escalation, a new escalation of the IRPF at the level of our community, in order to be able to save, precisely, this interference of a court on the parliamentary competence that should be legislated. And how there's this interference... Therefore, here there is no new fiscal pressure, but there is a separation with escalates that allows, as the Councillor Giró said, to lower the fiscal pressure to an eighty percent of the citizenry. With this new climb..., up to 12,450_gross euros, separation up to 21,000, and from 21,000 to 33,000, and 33,000 to 55,000. And, as Counselor Giró said, the bid of one percent on some of these trams is offsetting with the lower of the initial tram, right? So, in this sense, as we say, the benefit is..., for a eighty percent of the citizenry there is less fiscal pressure. That you're short? It's been said here that he doesn't give because... it's the percentage of down, isn't it? , which can be done and which can be applied. Are we in a country with high taxation? I already explained it to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and I also told it on the day of the full debate. Yes, we have to recognize him. Why? Because with our own fiscal capacity we are unable to donate the worthy and necessary services that citizens are demanding of us. Citizenship demands that we serve and solve a state, but we have the recaptancy of a fiscal autonomy, and an autonomy, more than anything else. Mr. Canadell explained it in the morning. They receive 55,000_million euros a year, but our assumption the fem on a basis of 36,000_million euros. So, here's a differential, huh? , almost 20,000_million, that they go and do not return, but that the citizens, with servants, with right, with dignity of servants, of sanitation, of social services, of education, of everything..., ask us, ask us. And, therefore, for many years, with this high level of fiscal interference that we also have, and taxation, therefore, the Government of Catalonia has had to make us..., we have had to impose fiscal efforts on the citizens of Catalonia. So, fiscal hell isn't one of its own, it's a fiscal hell a little obliged to be subject to a central state that provokes us every year, huh? More than 14,000, 15,000, 18,000... for the year Mr. Canadell saw us talking about 22,000_million euros of tax gap. So, all these thousands of millions that go in and don't come back, huh? ... the generality during the last two or fifteen years has had to make fiscal imagination in order to be able to recapture, in the end – the deputy Vilalta has said – 450_millions, eh? That's the different fiscal effort we make Catalans. But some of them, as we say, are on a subject that is done to correct externalities and which, moreover, as we have said, other communities or other countries have also applied. So you don't have to be no beast in this sense. In any case, the best tax reform, which was said to us by Mr Gallego, "has to be faced with a tax reform..., obviously, the best tax reform – we have already said this morning, too – would be independence. Independence would be the best tax reform. [[Some applause.]] Why with these, so, 18,000, 20,000 or 22,000 million euros, huh? ...When you say these figures so high it seems that you are certainly not able to imagine what can be done with so many thousands of millions, but this morning too has been said; in fact, with the items presented in the Generality's premise of all opposition groups..., they were talking about not reaching 4,000_million euros. So imagine yourselves, huh? – it's not hard to imagine – so what could be done to Catalonia with all this. We could be equally supportive of the country on the coast for a few years, couldn't we? , to do so in a calm and well-agreed manner. And I'm sure all Catalans and Catalans would agree with that, wouldn't they? In any case, this imagination effort would have to be done. We'd all have to, because we're here, as much as we have an independent feeling like we don't, we're serving the citizens. And the city, huh? When he goes to school or when he goes to a public service, or on public transport, or when he goes to a school or when he goes to ask for a social service, no one asks him whether he is an independentist or not. It's a city of Catalonia that has a right to a few services that are of quality, that are worthy, huh? And here, then, we have to paint this tax officer we're skating, huh? So, where are you in tax hell? He's not here, he's there; he's there, in Madrid, isn't he? , and the fruit of successful governments of different colors that have maintained and maintained, during a follow-up of legislatures, therefore, this situation of hardship, not only in the taxation that they collect and do not return in the form of services, but also with a hardship that many infrastructures and many services that are now of state competence do not apply the necessity of reversal, maintenance, renewal or modernization, eh? The example is clear, but there are many more services that depend on the State and that do not have the necessary investments. Therefore, the tax burden is double: the money they collect and do not return and the money they stop investing. So, with this, I think we're giving an answer, one more time, to this repeated speech, huh? , from tax hell, or that we are a country with a high tax pressure. In any case, as we say, the best fiscal measure would be to be able to decide and dispose of this tax gap that doesn't come back, huh? , because of course the citizens and citizens, then, we would have all these services covered and of quality. For what he does to the accompanying law, as I said, there are about fifty of his own with the agreement with the group of commons. And some of them... until today, there has been some technical aspect of withdrawal or modification for issues, so, basically legal or legal, and so some have given themselves up to this whole media. In any case, he wanted to make a rest of it, but in fact, Mr Gallego has already made a rest of these measures. In any case, I will try to highlight some of them, such as the issue of issues that make reference to access to housing, or, for example, the promotion of family housing, the energetic rehabilitation of housing, or facilitate, through the law of urbanism, housing in small populations, eh? , up to two thousand inhabitants – up to five hundred. Or, for example, also highlight the issue of compromise in twelve_months to elaborate the bill for ITVs, and, therefore, solve a problem that was stagnant during different mandates. Or, for example, sommes, also the issue of the building waste management program. As I said earlier, we would be left with the issue of steel or phonery residues. I think this is a debate we need to initiate, beyond the processing of this accompanying law. We also talked about the issue of defining the uses of water for the application of the water canon. We also talked about the acceleration of the deployment of renewable energies. I believe that it is also important to create the Agency for the Management of University and Research Aid or the appropriate program of the Central University of Catalonia - University of Vic. Or, for example – it has already been said, too – the theme of the atmosphere body or the scale of the body of bombers and emergencies, the expansion of the Barcelona Fira, the theme of the complement of productivity to the staff of clean health. Or, for example, therefore, the themes of the financing of the bressol schools, which also contemplates the agreement, right? So, I won't do it anymore... because I don't have time, and, as I said, the Gallego deputy has given us a full summary of these fifty items that we jointly join the support groups to the government and with the agreement of commons. Thank you and go ahead. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.69.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.70.0	Good afternoon, President. President, Councillor, Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members who are in the Chamber, also those who follow us from home... Before we begin, I can't be able to please the work done to the companies and companies of the Republican Left Group, with whom we worked this week, especially the company Lluís Salvadó, who I hope will pass it as easily as possible, and to the company Alba Vergés, to whom they replaced me last week because of Covid-19. Thanks also to the technical team, headed for Jaume Martorell, Lara Carbonell, Joan Masferrer and Núria Julià, and also to the technical team of Junts for Catalonia and Deputy Munell, with whom we also worked together. I would like to make a special point of the Economic Commission's letter, as well as of the Commission's manager and Sira Torrecillas, as well as the institutional relations of the Department of Economic Affairs. Also to the counselor and to the whole team... I'd ask you to extend this grace to the entire economy team. Made these graces, today is an important day. This morning we were able to approve the law of assumptions for 2022 and now we will proceed to approve the law of measures that accompany them, two tools not only to give response to the emergencies that continue to provoke the crisis of covid-19, but also to be able to realize these transformations of country that always reminds us President Aragonès, a transformation into a green key, a feminist key, a social key and also a democratic key. Before I enter the subject matter, let me also highlight and thank the support for presupposition 2022 that has already been donated by the commons' companions and companions, a support that we understand helps to strengthen the left-hand turn that enjoined our citizens on the 14th of February. Unfortunately, with the CUP, although we have also been working, it has not been possible to find the necessary agreement, but from the Republican Left we are convinced that in the future we can continue to find the broad consensus that, in our opinion, it is the ones that allow the country to advance and, therefore, to advance its people as well. These assumptions, in fact, did not disentangle themselves from the investment agreement with the CUP; on the contrary, they sought the only possible agreement to materialize the transformation with which President Aragones and also the Government of Esquerra and Junts was compromised with his government program. Now, entering into the matter of this own law of statements, without going too far into the detail of the number of changes that this law of measures incorporates, that the companies that preceded me – it is the one that has to be the last to intervene – have already specified and have spoken very concretely of all these measures..., but I would like to put some examples of these measures that help this transformation of the country that the Government of the Generality poses. In social terms, the 2022 and this law incorporate the gratuity of the I2 – of the P2, if I may the councillor, which is how it is, therefore, by the majority of the citizenry. Some considerations of respect for the import of this measure. According to the experts, learning zero and three years is decisive. The feelings that infants have in these early ages influence the way they learn from the length of their lives. In fact, there are also other experts in educational policies who warn that, as it later enters the system, it is also more time to leave this system. And the PISA report detects significant differences between 15-year-old students as a result of the children's education courses in which they have been educated. Therefore, this measure is clearly aimed at reducing the differences between children. When a family can't pay for the school, who doesn't assume the consequences are also the women, and now we'll see why, right? So it's a measure of social transformation, but it's also a feminist measure. As I said, when a family can't pay for the school, it's mostly the women who don't take the consequences. Many women are expelled from the labour market because, for the self they cover, they pay more to stay home with the creature than not to take them to school in Bressol, and there is no other than what they do to ask for cutbacks. And they're not perceptions. Because we make an idea, the ninety-three_per_cent– ninety-three_per_cent– of the excesses to take care of children or dependent people we ask for the women. Seventy per cent of part-time contracts are held by women. I, according to the calculations of the Observers Dona, Company and Economy, of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, the total gratuity of the public school bressol would allow some seven_ thousand women not to abandon the labor market and some twenty_ thousand did not have to reduce their working day. It is obvious, therefore, that the gratuity of P2 will not only affect the reduction of inequalities between infants, but will also help to combat an inequality between women and men such as the wage bracket. Also with a feminist look and with the will to reduce inequalities, this law also includes measures for the feminization of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, the Cos de Bombers and the Rural Agents, replicating, in fact, the model of calls that the 2020 law of measures has already installed for the urban guard and extend it, as we say, on the way, firefighters and rural agents. We cannot afford the luxury of indifference before the masculinization of these essential bones for the proper functioning of our society. The law of measures will enable us to complete with the objective of balancing the presence of women and men equally by making a reserve of quotas for women in a homogeneous manner in the convocations of all these operating bodies of the country. I, still in social claus, the right to housing. It's a phone bill, it's a phone bill that addresses not only the assumptions that we approved this morning, but also this measurement bill. And in this case, as a fiscal measure, the passive subject matter of the empty floor tax, which from then on will also affect physical persons – not just legal ones, as it went so far – who are great owners. There was someone who complained of the tax; what do you mean, that they are great masters? It means that it exploits economically more than a fifteen-year-old habitation. So we're not talking about who has a piss, but who has more than fifteen and exploits them economically. A measure that, in addition to the €1,000_million that the assumptions have predicted in terms of housing, will help to combat one of the main elements of inequality in our society, which are the difficulties – in many cases, the impossibility – of being able to access a housing. And, in fiscal terms – there has also been reference on various occasions – so we cannot avoid the reduction of the IRPF to lower returns, that is, the reduction of the IRPF to lower returns to 30_000_euros, which – as has already been said, also represent the eighty_percent of the contributors of this country. Therefore, we have seen measures in social claus, also in feminist claus. And, from the point of view of green transformation, highlight some of them that are incorporated – they have also been named here – as the creation of a tax on ultraprocesses, which, following the model of success of the tax on sugar, has to be used to boost a healthier and more sustainable food model. We are talking about public salvation, about the public salvation of our children. And we can't help but do some of the taxes granted to the Catalonian Group in Comú We may be developing in our own months, as it has also been said: the creation of a tax on economic activities that generate gases with winter effects or the creation of a tax on the harbour emissions of large ships. It is also – let me stress this – particularly interesting for the creation of a nuclear transition fund, which will be endowed with 24_million euros per year, for the socio-economic development and just energy transition of various regions. The objective of this measure is to respond to the impact of the shutdown of nuclear power plants, which will result in the disappearance of a medium of three-thousand direct jobs and which will affect the economic fabric of the municipalities of Priorat, Lower Camp, Upper Earth, the Bank of Ebre and Lower Ebre, which cover the nuclear power plants of Ascó and Vandellòs. A foundation, therefore, essential for the economic and social future of these comarques. And, still in a green light, highlight the consolidation of the decree of renewable energies, which, more than guaranteeing this energy transition essential to be able to cope with the climate crisis, also includes the participation of the territory in the decision-making process. And, precisely, the incorporation of the opinion of the territory, the popular consultation in the making of decisions as fundamental as the celebration of the Olympic Games, is one of the proposals in key democratic transformation that incorporates this law of measures. Because, yes, you can do different things, and obviously, we, as much as we defend the right to decide, think it's important that the eyes and veins of the Pyrenees can freely decide their future as well. And I wouldn't want to end up without naming, even though it is in the past, other measures that from the Republican Left seem to us to be especially significant and transformative – they have also been said here – as can be the internalization of 061 or 112 or the pilot test for universal basic income. And, before it's over, some answers – it's the one you have, too, being the last to intervene – to some questions that have been raised here at the Faristol, right? Congressman Riba from the PSC was talking about trains, wasn't he? , and trivialized what is supposed to incorporate all the studies of the Tramcamp and various trams in Catalonia. Do you know where you won't be able to build a single mile, since we're talking about trains and Tarragona Camp? So it's in the line of merchandise for the inside. That's up to the state government, and we're just having a viability study – it's not an information study, so it's not a binding study – and here we have a challenge as well as territory. Therefore, here we have responsibilities in the area of trains, we would also ask that this transfer of goods to the interior be a priority for the Government of the State. The deputy from the ultrathreat was talking about calendars. Here the calendar that matters is the 1st generation of these assumptions will come into force. That's the calendar that matters. That from the '1 of gener [[applause]] citizens will be able to have more resources than this increase of resources for health, education, social rights..., for all these questions that have been said at the length of the day. And then, to the deputy of Ciutadans, in this constant comparison that we do, right? , or what they do, go between the ultra-liberal politics of Madrid and the politics that there is in Catalonia, some data, because I believe that repeating things as a mantra but not providing data, therefore, is irresponsible. Mirin, Madrid is the region of Europe – of Europe, not of Spain – with a major excess mortality year 2020 – of Europe. For what makes the fall of the gross domestic product, with data from the INE, in Madrid the gross domestic product fell a 11,1_per_cent; in Catalonia, a 10,9. The tourist tax is lower in Catalonia than in Madrid, and more jobs were created in Catalonia than in Madrid – a 4.7_per_cent respect a 4.1_per_cent. We understand growth as shared prosperity and not as the usual model, the model that only enriches a few and leaves a few others to the stage. And, since we're talking about taxes and this tax hell, what's hell is wanting to access public salvation and not be able to do it; what's hell is having to depend on a private mutual if you want to have access to salvation. Therefore, the taxes for which they are used are to guarantee these rights, to guarantee equal opportunities in aspects as important and relevant as health and education. Therefore, taxes are destined for this, for everyone, not just those who can pay a private exchange, have right and ability to access salvation. [[Greetings.]] I would like to end by saying, in short, that today we approve some assumptions. We will continue to do so, with a law of measures to help us, as one band said, to continue to respond to the needs of citizens at such complex times as we are living – remember that the Health Department increases resources by 15 % compared to 2020, more than €1,300_million, which, among other issues, should serve us to strengthen primary care – therefore, important assumptions to respond to the needs, to the emergences of the citizens of this country, and, on the other hand, to some assumptions and a law of measures that are comprehensive, that have been endorsed by the CUP and that have been approved with the commons. Presumables and a law of measures to enable these four transformations aimed at improving people's lives: green transformation, feminist, social and democratic transformation. Thank you very much. Good holidays, in the measure of what is possible; very caution, these days, and a quick and light recovery to all who are patenting Cove-19. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.71.0	All right. Once the debate is over, we shall now proceed to the vote. [[Raúl Moreno Montaña asks to speak.]] Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.72.0	Yes, Madam President; for the separate vote of the technical papers with registry numbers 26401 and 26591, I believe they have already arrived at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.73.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.74.0	And also the separate vote on points 89.2, 89.3 and 89.6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.75.0	All right. Thank you very much. So, before... yes, Mr. Cid, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.76.0	To ask for the separate vote in block 8 of votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.77.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.78.0	We would have to vote separately on the 723.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.79.0	Okay. Are there any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Okay. So, before we begin with the vote, I inform you that we will first order them in this way: the reserved items are submitted to the vote with all the error corrections that have been submitted to the length of the process and that have been published. First of all, we will vote on the reserved items that have been tabled in accordance with the voting block that has been established and following the voting guide that everyone has at their disposal. We shall continue to vote jointly on the proposals which the Bureau of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has accepted as technical, which have also been distributed and published. There are 15 technical papers which were published on the 23rd of December, but the Bureau has admitted to this media a new technical paper on Article 35.6 of the draft law, which has also been distributed to all the spokespersons. Therefore, we will finally vote on seven technical issues. And then we will vote separately on Article 89 of the Commission's opinion, as long as this provision amends the text recast of the municipal and local law of Catalonia and approves this amendment, in accordance with Article 62.2 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, the vote in favour of the absolute majority of the plenary of Parliament. And that is why he will be the object of a separate vote. And finally, as we have done before, we will vote on the other parts of the bill that have not been threatened. So let's start with the vote. According to the order of the blocks we have made, we begin by voting for block number 1, which are the items 2 and 52. The vote begins. These items do not prosper, with 62 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 8 abstentions. We shall now vote on block number 2, points 59 and 60. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 3 votes in favour and 126 votes against and 6 abstentions. We now vote on block number 3, which buys the items between 3 and 114. The vote begins. This set of items was not approved, with 14 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 6 abstentions. We now vote on block number 4, items 21, 40 and 41. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 36 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 23 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 5, Emena 702. The vote begins. This item was also adopted, with 56 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 3 abstentions. We now vote on block number 6, which buys the items between number 26 and 693. The vote begins. This package has been rejected, with 53 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 8 abstentions. We are now voting on block number 7, items 22, 23, 35 and 713. The vote begins. This bloc of debates also prospers, with 45 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 14 abstentions. We shall now vote on block number 8, 723, which has been requested by separate vote. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 27 votes in favour and 118 votes against. We now vote on the remaining items in block number 8, between 703 and 753. The vote begins. This block of papers received 9 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 9, items 61, 62 and 63. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 36 votes in favour, 93 votes against and 6 abstentions. We now vote on block number 10, items 704 and 705. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 9 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 41 abstentions. We now vote on block number 11, reports between 24 and 123. The vote begins. These items were rejected, with 36 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 25 abstentions. We now vote on block number 12, with the items between 132 and 688. The vote begins. These items do not prosper, with 20 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 13, items 64 and 111. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 3 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 14 abstentions. Now we're voting on block number 14, we're voting on them between 37 and 127. The vote begins. These items have not been approved, with 33 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 14 abstentions, and three people who do not vote. The vote on block number 15, Emena 708 begins now. The vote begins. Nor have these statements been approved, with 17 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 11 abstentions. We are voting now on block number 16, items 710 and 716. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 51 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 8 abstentions. We are now voting on block number 17, items 11 and 20. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 11 votes in favour, 121 votes against and 3 abstentions. We now vote on block number 18, lists between number 72 and 663. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 20 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 41 abstentions. We vote for block number 19, 711 and 714. The vote begins. This block of papers has also remained... no approval, with 12 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 47 abstentions. Let's vote on cluster number 20, between 12 and 154. The vote begins. This package has not been approved, with 20 votes in favour and 115 votes against. We now vote on block number 21, the 30th and the 699th exams. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 42 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 22, item 31, item 33, item 34 and item 715. The vote begins. Nor has this block of papers been approved, with 51 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 9 abstentions. We vote for block number 23, send 712. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 18 votes in favour, 109 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 24, item 32, item 38 and item 721. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 48 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 25, Emena 71. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 3 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 17 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 26, Emena number 16. The vote begins. This item was not approved, with 11 votes in favour and 124 votes against. We're voting block number 27 now, it's 717. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 18 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 41 abstentions. We're voting block number 28 now, Emena number 18. The vote begins. This item was not approved, with 14 votes in favour and 121 votes against. We vote for block number 29, send 718. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 9 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 50 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 30, Emena number 39. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 39 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 17 abstentions. We now vote on block number 31, items 78, 93 and 103. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 14 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 39 abstentions. We now vote on block number 32, item 79, 80 and 102. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 14 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 47 abstentions. We now vote on block number 33, items 722 and 754. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 42 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 34, Emena number 42. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 50 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 9 abstentions. We now vote on Block 35, the items included between 49 and 697. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 54 votes in favour and 81 votes against. We are now voting for Block 36, Exhibits 43, 44 and 55. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 42 votes in favour, 76 votes against and 17 abstentions. We vote for block number 37, exams 82, 93 and 135. The vote begins. Nor has this block of papers been approved, with 14 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 14 abstentions. We now vote on block number 38, items 45, 50 and 51. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 36 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 34 abstentions. Let's vote on block number 39, let's vote 46 and 58. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 33 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 23 abstentions. We vote for block number 40, Emena number 47. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 44 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting for Block 41 now, Eminence 48. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 33 votes in favour, 88 votes against and 14 abstentions. We now vote on block number 42, reviews between 53 and 701. The vote begins. This block of papers was not approved, with 42 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 19 abstentions. We're voting now for block number 43, Emena 734. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 15 votes in favour, 108 votes against, 11 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We are now voting on block number 44, points 54 and 57. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 45 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 25 abstentions. We now vote on block number 45, items 735 and 737. The vote begins. With 51 votes in favour, 78 votes against and two abstentions were not approved. We're voting now for Block 46, Emena 736. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 9 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 44 abstentions. We're voting for Block 47, Eminence 56. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 33 votes in favour, 93 votes against and 9 abstentions. Let's vote for Block 48, move 738. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 20 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting on Block 49 now, 139 and 141. The vote begins. This block of papers was not approved, with 29 votes in favour, 98 votes against and 8 abstentions. We now vote on block number 50, items 96, 109 and 698. The vote begins. This block of papers was not approved, with 39 votes in favour, 82 votes against, 11 abstentions and 3 people who do not vote. We're voting now for block number 51, reports from 740 to 745. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 26 votes in favour, 101 votes against and 8 abstentions. The vote on block 52 begins at item 97, item 112 and item 129. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 9 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 44 abstentions. Let's vote on block 53, check them out 98 and 99. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 9 votes in favour, 93 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting for Block 54, Emena 746. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 9 votes in favour, 101 votes against and 25 abstentions. We're voting block 55, it's 104. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 9 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 19 abstentions. We vote for Block 56, send 747. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 20 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 41 abstentions. We vote for block 57, send 752. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 15 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 41 abstentions. We're voting for block 58. We're voting for 113. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 20 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 33 abstentions. Let's vote on block 59, check them out 116 and 122. The vote begins. This package was not approved, with 3 votes in favour, 107 votes against and 25 abstentions. We're voting block number 60, it's 153. The vote begins. These items were not approved, with 17 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 3 abstentions. We vote for block number 61, send 140. The vote begins. This item was not adopted, with 17 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 44 abstentions. Let's get to the tech show. Let's vote, first of all, together with the emena... 26401 and the emena bearing the registry number 26591. The vote begins. These items were approved, with 98 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 9 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the technical papers. The vote begins. The remainder of the technical papers were approved, with 65 votes in favour, 62 votes against and 8 abstentions. Finally, we shall now vote on the text of the opinion. We shall vote separately on Rule 89. We shall vote first together on points 89.2, 89.3 and 89.6. The vote begins. This vote received 73 votes in favour and 55 votes against. We now vote on the rest of Rule 89. The vote begins. The remainder of Rule 89 was approved, with 105 votes in favour and 30 votes against. Finally, we will now vote on the other parts of the bill that have not been threatened. The vote begins. The vote on the remainder of the bill was 65 votes in favour, 61 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Nuria Picas Albets comedy words]] Mrs. Picas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.80.0	Thank you, President. I need my word to announce that I'm leaving the MP's record in this chamber, and I wanted to make it come true. I leave a stage that I have experienced with great intensity. And for me it was an honor to be a Member of this Parliament, but life is stages, and life, in the end, is full of challenges, and I think that to make politics you have to have a lot of energy, you have to have a lot of compromise, and, above all, you have to like it. I know a very passionate person, and things, to do them intensely, so I'm going to like them, right? You have to like for example run a one-hundred-seven-mile race; if you don't like it, [[relays]] So you'll hardly make it through to the end. And, well, I must be faithful to my passions, which are sport, mountain, nature. And these are my origins, and this is my life. I just want to thank you for the trust of these years and for sharing all these moments with you. I hope I've been up at every moment and could have been a good travel companion. And what's more, I'm going where I have the soul, but here I'm very clear that I leave the color and a lot of good company at work. And above all I encourage you to continue working until the final victory. I'll follow it out of the street, I'll follow it out of the mountains. All right, all right, That you're still very happy. I'm going to go to Catalonia for free. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-23-2101.81.0	Thank you very much. Dear Nuria Picas, it was a pleasure to share part of the journey with you. And thank you to all the deputies. We left with a lot of work done, with a good job done, for which I want to give thanks not only, naturally, to the government and in particular to the councillor, to the councillor Giró and to all his team, but to all parliamentary groups. It's been an intense process, it's required everyone's effort. And, therefore, I would like to extend this grace to all Members of the parliamentary groups. Also, naturally, to the Iletrat, Mr. Mario Núñez, also to the manager of the Commission of Economy, Mr. Frederic Soler. And to all of you I wish you a very good Nadal and that we have a good entrance in the year 2022. Thank you all. And raise the session. [[Greetings.]]
