ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] And unfortunately, today, before we begin the order of the day, I must communicate to you a new victim of general rape. Because, according to the official data of the Department of Interior, yesterday the Maria Àngela was murdered, in the locality of the Canya, in the municipality of Sant Joan les Fonts. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and reiterate the commitment of the Parliament of Catalonia to the eradication of any form of violence against women, and to age, too, for its record. In accordance with Parliament's duel protocol against masculinist rapes, which was approved by the Working Group on Gender Equity, we will call a minute of silence to the media, when we raise the session, to the facade of Palau. On the other hand, the data on the cove have also significantly increased these past days and, at the gates of Nadal week, I invite you, as well as all of the citizens, to increase prudence and make possible the celebration of these feasts with respect to the preventive measures that must guarantee our salvation. And, on the other hand, today we are tanking this debate that, taking up the Tuesday session, we have dedicated ourselves to mental salvation, encouraging them once again to collaborate with this great solidary activity and this country activity, which is La Marató de TV3, which carries, as you know, the motto of "Trenquem Murs". [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism policies]] [[302-00068/13]] And let's get to the next point of the order of the day, the split of the order of the day, the motion following the government's inquiry into tourism policies. It was presented by the Socialist and Unitist Parliamentary Group to advance, and has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Juan Luis Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. First of all, excuse the counselor, huh? , which yesterday called me and told me that it was impossible, so, can today accompany us. Well, in any case, what's important is that after that, what we approve of today all the papers respect this young man, right? We present this young man following our inquiry, the past Ple, respects tourism policies. The object of the motion, the object of the question itself, is nothing more than to put tourism in value, is it not? , with everything that has meant and what it means for the Catalan economy, that I can't repeat it. Because it's time to change. Society is changing, and so is tourism, so it is changing. And, therefore, an activity as cross-cutting as tourism is, it is obvious that it was also very related to the habits and habits that the tourist may have. And this has been evolving and, therefore, we are also ahead of a new profile of asking and, therefore, every time more demanding. So, also, if we want to continue being a competitive tourist destination, it's clear that we have to adapt, right? What we are demanding of the government is that it defends tourism activities in our country without ambiguity, right? An activity that is questioned by an important part of the citizenry – with a certain reason, huh? It has not yet been done well and here I believe that the sector must also make a certain self-criticism – but also that it has been and is questioned from a political perspective. No one remembers that tourism was a source of money – a source of money – to emerge from the economic crisis and finance the year 2008. So what we want with this young man is to go a little further than the new tourism law that the government wants to push forward and that it is absolutely necessary for us to participate in it. We want to open a public debate about the model and the future of tourism in Catalonia, beyond updating the law, which is still a legal and normative framework. What are we proposing? First of all, what we propose is to push forward a national tourism pact. I think that this, in addition, with all the appearances of those who have come – Pimec, Foment, the association of rural entrepreneurs, the unions... – so I think this has come to light, right? : the need to promote a great national pact for tourism, the result of a political and social consensus. We also believe that it is necessary to work for a new model of tourism governance. I said before: we are a consolidated destination. And, therefore, this model of governance must also be adapted to the economic and social reality that we are living in, where the local world, moreover, has a role to play in this new governance, since the local world, the assemblies, have competitions that directly affect tourism policy. We also want to give a new boost to tourism promotion. I also said that the representative of the General Council of Chambers in his appearance and we are totally in agreement. The Catalan Tourist Agency is a good instrument, but we understand that we need to update it. It is necessary to update both the model of direction, where all the sectors involved in tourism can actually participate; but also the own strategy of tourism promotion. And, well, maybe the time has come, too, to raise our own name, right? Speaking of a Catalan tourism agency, an agency is a bit of an administrative, bureaucratic thing, isn't it? And maybe we should... I don't know, start thinking about recovering "Tourism of Catalonia, or whatever other name we can agree on. And here it's very important, too, to work together with the different delegations, tourism promotion consortiums, and also with Barcelona Tourism, huh? Barcelona is the brand that gives us prestige, that gives us international recognition. And, therefore, it is necessary to create tourism promotion synergies in this sense. And that's why we also propose to push – that's already working, huh? – an integral system of tourism marketing in Catalonia. Nor can we lose more opportunities with the country; opportunities that have an international dimension and that position us as a competitive destination, as a top-level destination. And also, in this case, we also value the need to establish a new relationship with the education sector, with the university, with post-compulsory vocational training; therefore, to establish the connections between professional activity, academic training and the tourism sector. In the same way that you can also review the tax on stays in tourist establishments, the ill-named tourist tax, right? Many years ago its application and surely the time has come, too, to redefine it, to study its scope of application; how it is retrieved and how it distributes the tax and, above all, also the end of the same. And I already end with a thank you to all the parliamentary groups that have submitted papers to this motion and to the good predisposition to be able to reach an agreement. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.3.0	On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Isabel Lázaro, Member of the European Parliament, has the first word on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, good morning, everyone. Today we are dealing with a subject, tourism, on which all the groups present here agree, with the exception of the radical anti-systems of the CUP and the ultra-communist, psycho-tourist left, as regards the importance of this sector. This is one of the sectors that provides our economy with the most wealth and jobs. It accounts for approximately 12_per_cent, and in some areas of the Costa Brava, 19_per_cent of the gross domestic product, and about 14_per_cent of the total employment of our region. This means that the tourism sector represents an indispensable source of wealth and economic, social and cultural vitality, fundamental to the development of Catalonia. And, therefore, important for our political formation. So much so that we have put forward several proposals to improve the conditions of workers and entrepreneurs in the Catalan tourism sector. The PSC and Units per Avançar motion contains ten proposals, which we have studied thoroughly. Proponents, why create a General Secretariat of Tourism? Do they not believe that there are enough secretariats, undersecretaries, bodies and agencies? For example, the Catalan Tourist Agency. The budgets submitted by the Government provide this institution with EUR 24,300,000, of which EUR 6,636,100 is for staff. Don't you think it is enough to hire qualified and trained staff to carry out a secretariat? Greater political structure does not need to be translated into more effective and efficient. The problem is not political spending, the problem is management and objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, as the first national opposition force in this Parliament, we will monitor every single euro of Catalans that you so happily overthrow. They're not helping the tourism sector, they're sinking it. You want to push for a national pact. Look, there's only one nation here, which is the Spanish nation. You've bought the separatist mental framework. Well, instead of buying the separatist mental framework, they are dedicated to really improving the working and business conditions of the tourism sector. Look, gentlemen, there is no need to review and update Law 5/2012, which regulates the tourist rate. Our group recorded a proposal to eliminate it. This tax is clearly detrimental to the promotion of tourism and the maintenance or creation of employment that tourism promotes in Catalonia, in addition to generating comparative grievances with other Spanish regions. The collection of this tax has a negative impact on the sector. That is what the various employers with whom we have spoken and some of the actors who have appeared in the Committee on Labour are saying, and that is why we have recorded the amendment to amend point 8 of their motion. Tourism needs momentum and commitment. Let's stop talking and do more. They encourage the growth of quality employment, remove bureaucratic barriers, bet on connectivity and thus attract quality tourism. Develop measures to avoid parkingability. They suppress taxes. Promote bonuses in training and recruitment that help SMEs and autonomous, true heroes. Catalans need solutions, and all you do is create problems. Socialist proponents of this motion, stop acting like crutches, abandon Catalonia from separatism, whose priority is to waste unnecessary and unnecessary spending, lead real Catalonia and respond to a priority sector in our region, such as tourism, which brings wealth and employment. While we're here debating, out there are thousands of Catalans dedicated in body and soul to raising their tourism business. We have a responsibility to help them. And this motion is not enough to get what and some of the proposals go in the wrong direction. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.5.0	Then, and on behalf of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Tonia Batlle's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.6.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Tourism, as the previous companies have said, is a very important sector in our country, which represents the doze_per_cent of GDP. A sector that, as you know, has suffered a lot and continues to be painted. For this reason, we appreciate the presentation of this motion to the proposed group and the collaboration, therefore, for the acceptance of the papers and the girl transactions. But this must also be the will to continue working, with this collaboration, all folds to satisfy the needs of the sector, working in a new law of tourism much needed to unify the regulations that we currently have very scattered and that also allow us a profound debate, with all the actors, of the future that we want tourism to follow in our country. A law that must be pioneering, of future and of consensus. There are two aspects that will be the key points and that from Juntes to Catalunya we will defend firmly. For a band, work on a quality and appropriate training; suitable for the needs of the sector, and above all, we also have to do some studies that are attractive to our young people. Secondly, the improvement in the dignity of work places; well-paid work places and, above all, with good business practices, which are, at the same time, the guarantee of the quality of service and the competitiveness of our sector. The Catalan business world of the tourism sector is formed by many small businesses and autonomies that we were born with the arrival of tourism, more than fifty years ago, and many are already the third generation. After we put tourism in value, we estimate our work and we also estimate our territory. Let me, here, make a note of a personal anecdote that my father has always explained to me; that he, young, very young, has already begun to work at the Tourist Office of Lloret and they have placed an office a little bit from the National II, which is why we arrive at that moment, therefore, the tourists who come from France, to capture them from Lloret so that they do not go further south. What do I mean by that? So Lloret was already a pioneer at that time in the promotion. But also, therefore, highlight that it is a sector that has been born transforming, adapting to the needs and realities. At that time, the tourist came without reservation and we went to tourists who later made reservations per letter, and managed it after fax, and currently, therefore, press a button, in two_seconds three the reservation. And this is what has facilitated, therefore, the new technologies and the adaptation of the sector. There are other fears that..., without being able to extend me because I don't have time, but at least I want to, yes, to spell them out and that here they have spelled out, as is the destination and distribution of the tourist fee. Also, another point that should be dealt with is the financing of these touristic municipalities. We are the Catalonia of yes. From Junts per Catalunya we will not tire of repeating it. We work for a country model of added value, competition and investment of projects that generate opportunities, quality occupation and dynamism in the economy of our country, from small projects from the territory to larger projects, such as winter games, the expansion of the Prat Airport or the Hard Rock Cafe. Yes to build a country where the society of knowledge and talent follows the base, in projects that have the least environmental impact, but without oblivion that the talent travels and will continue to do so. I can't escape, obviously. Finally, I would like to refer to a UN study that analyses the multiplier effect of touristic tickets. We are told that of each euro that is lost in tourist tickets it is possible to generate a loss of up to two euros and a half in the total economy, for the links of tourism with many other sectors, which could have an impact, for a band, directly, on smaller purchases to sectors that provide the tourism sector, less occupation and less benefits and, indirectly, it is clear, in the generation of places of work. Therefore, here I would like to highlight and appeal to the responsibility that we all have to take a full look at, to analyse the causes and repercussions of the benefits of tourism policies. Because we can't forget that tourism is all from the establishments to the workers of these establishments, but also the travel agents and the suppliers; from the programmers of the web pages or the computer management programs to the fusters, the drivers or the data analysts. I mean tourism, in this country, includes many aspects; also trade, restoration and zero-kilometer products: from the Garrotxa recesses to the Garriga oil. We've always been on the side of the sector since Junts. Therefore, we value all its attractions. And we would always look for a growth of a tourism of reference, quality and sustainability, which is what we all want. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.7.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.8.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Well, from the start to thank the socialist group that introduced this young man. We believe that it is an important young man who demonstrates a reality: that tourism is a key sector in Catalonia – this doze_per_cent of GDP that has already been established by previous competitors – but that tourism has, indeed, an important multiplier effect on the economy. When we talk about tourism, we're also talking about hotels, we're talking about trade, we're talking about transport, we're talking about territories and we're talking about housing, housing uses, territorial balance... We're talking about many questions. Therefore, we say, tourism is a key element in Catalonia's economic structure; therefore, we need to keep it present. And I think that the one who proposed it... and that, as always, the motions can have many visions and many interpretations, the motion, from our point of view, the one that poses on the table or on the political debate of the country is that the current tourism model is exhausted and that it is necessary to address new strategies that allow to reorient the current model. And we see this, in the background, so to speak, of this young man. And, therefore, the importance of this national pact for the tourism that I allow, from the different viewpoints that converge in the sector, both that of the entrepreneurs, as that of the workers, as also that of the territory, that of the group of agents involved..., can redefine a different tourist model. The tourism model is exhausted, basically, because global reps also arrive in the sector, as it cannot be otherwise, and affect it. And the pandemic hastened me, huh? The climate repte, the repte of digitization. The changes that all this generates in the company's own structures also affect the tourism sector, which today we have seen more accelerated, more evident for the pandemic. Therefore, from this point of view, we agree on the need for this national pact that addresses a new model of tourism, an integral model, a model that integrates the different aspects that in the territory have to do with the tourism and the tourism model that we want. A model not only integral, but also a model with respect to its territorial environment, with the environment; obviously, with sustainability. A model that takes into account what is the role of the territory, what is the role of local administrations, also, at the time of impact on regulation, on the functioning of the tourism model. Therefore, from this point of view, we agree in most of the questions raised by the motion. There are some who obviously don't, which I'll be commenting on now. We are grateful, in any case, that you have also accepted one of the points that we have raised with reference to the touristic and the shared ones, which you have to deal with the touristic theme of overnight stays and so on. Because we understand that the subject of tourist llars..., we need to make it under clear urbanism. On a paper, too, from the local administrations to the time of regulating which are these lars, which characteristics must have and which maximum quantity can be established. Therefore, from this point of view, we consider it positive that the element of shared areas and habitats in relation to tourism in the definitive motion, with this theme that we have been able to present. But there are a couple of questions that we don't like about the young lady. One, which refers to situating or questioning the subject of the tourist tax. He doesn't question it directly, but indirectly. It is, say, an assessment to be able to evaluate the element of the tourist tax. No problem with assessing things, I'd just miss it. But we understand that questioning the tourist tax at these times is also defocusing the problem. The problem with the tourism sector is not the tourist tax. The tourist tax plays an important role, too, even of contributing to the promotion of the tourism sector; questioning it we believe that it does not have..., does not bring, say, no positive element. But what we are most concerned about, and what we are obviously against, is that there is also a bet for the airport, for the topic of the expansion of the airport; the bet for the big casino that is the Hard Rock or the bet for the winter games. We believe that they are bets that go against, that they are contradictory to the rest of the movement, because they are bets that strengthen, in some way, a tourist model that is exhausted, and they are proposals that are not precisely the change lines that we need, at these times, to change the tourist model. Therefore, we do not share them and we will vote against them. It is necessary to change the tourist model. It is necessary to change the tourism model from the national pact, with the participation of all the agents, to a much more comprehensive tourism model, respecting the environment and with the participation of the local administrations; but we cannot use fallen and old-fashioned pallets, such as the Hard Rock, the airport or the winter games, to change it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.9.0	And, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the word, in the name of Esquerra Republicana, the deputy Mr Bartomeu Account.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.10.0	Thank you, President. And thanks, Members, Members, especially the interlocutors, especially for their efforts to seek a shared vision, which I think is important. We didn't make it at all, but we made an effort. This motion on tourism policies expresses proposals, as we say, with which we agree and which, in fact, emphasize the essential work that the department already does in this area. As Councillor Torrent told us in the previous plenary, among the transformative objectives of the Government, the tourism sector plays a decisive role. And this work has already allowed us to recover from the harsh effects of the pandemic, with partial recovery of foreign tourism – it is true – and a significant increase in domestic tourism, with clear increases – there are, at last, some comparable to 2019. Now there's another thing: high and long country look, and it's time for transformation. It's not easy, because the pandemic is still drawing a blurry future for us and causing us immediate problems that we have to face. But let's go to the police station. From the outset, the proposal is appreciated, but we also need to think of a well-defined economic model and an idea of the country to which it aspires. The motion could be much more concrete, and ambitious, the transformation, into this model change, as has been said before. But in any case, there is a first point, but we are clear that we cannot support it. They're asking us to create a tourism secretary and, as we said, work is already being done. The Directorate General of Tourism has already appeared in committee and explained the campaign of this year 2021 and the lines of work. So, the work, I repeat, is already being done. Therefore, we will not change it, because we respect the organizational authority of the Government and, even more, working well as it does now. Where we have to find ourselves by force is a national compromise for responsible tourism: a national pact for tourism. It will be necessary to plan, taking advantage of digitalization, that resources are now coming and that much is left to run, and it will be necessary to regulate with a new tourism law that brings the commitment of everyone and the sector to quality tourism, that is to know how to attract the civic tourist and customize the product. This is the quality tourism and what we want to adopt. From this pact and from this law, there must be a single and transversal regulation, a territorial planning, a permanent modernization and also a quality control of tourist establishments. But I don't want to end up without talking about a point to which, in any case, we can give support – we can't give support to it, and you know it. We proposed a proposal, which was not accepted as it was, to support investment projects that generate opportunities with quality occupation and economic dynamism, taking into account environmental conditions and the affected territory. But the so-called "socio-virgency" has reappeared, to give support to the investment projects that generate..., has reappeared – forgive – and takes advantage of any opportunity to return to the macro-projects and to talk about Hard Rock, a macro-tourism model that may have worked after sixty years, but that has come into crisis due to environmental, social and economic problems, and this forces us to change, because tourism continues to ride on carbon. [[Greetings.]] We should therefore consider whether current tourism and global needs are compatible. And that, for the time being, has not been discussed. They quote Hard Rock, they quote the winter games, when this has already been debated and voted and we stayed that, before anything else, the territory would be heard. Comrade Antoni Flores said: "The Pyrenees must have their own eyes. Why do we insist on big projects, when there are things like the Living Tarraco, the Empordà Bike Resort, the Mass Territories? They are all examples of how sustainable, clean and diversified tourism can be done. And I need to talk about it. It is about turning the tourism around the country, with personal experiences of interrelationship, with all the values we have and respect the places they visit. And we need to make one thing clear: that we go to a company where we will have to reduce the use of the automobile and the plane, that we will have to replace them with collectible transport systems, like the railway, that there is a lot of field to run to Catalonia – a lot – the bus, or even the whole bike; that we will have to travel more slowly, more closely and synchronized with the values of integral balance and sustainability. So let's not go back to a dangerous model and focus on three urgent and fundamental questions: reactivating, which still stays on track, rethinking, which is essential, and transforming, which is urgent. And it has to be done in all spheres, and it is time to do so, to achieve a tourism that is just and just and with consciousness, claimed as never the pandemic, awareness of the territory and its preservation, to achieve social justice, which is nothing other than the balance of the sector, to share the benefit and improve the environment. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.11.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.12.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Well, I understand that no one will be surprised by our position before this young man, a young man whom we believe to be a compendium of inconsistent proposals; inconsistent, because a country cannot fuel its economy in sectors with elastic demand and a rigid supply, such as the tourism sector and as we understand that this young man is still defending himself: that the country is supporting itself and that it is supporting itself in the tourism sector. And we say this not only because eighty years of tourism extraction have caused the territories, the media and society irreparable damage, but also because, after more than a year and a half of pandemic, showing the weaknesses of the tourism sector, they are not a small responsibility and are doing a hundred and eighty degrees to promote the economy or encourage an economy that puts people's needs at the centre and takes into account the impacts of economic and social activity in the territory. But not just in the territory, but also, as we say, socially. Therefore, an economy that works to eradicate inequalities and not that deepens them. And you, from the hand of Juntes for Catalonia, as the Republican Left Member put it, insist on the historical projects of "socio-vergency, which show or propel an economic model, developmentism, this model that has prevailed in this country for years and which has systematically dedicated itself to developing projects that destroy the territory and that, in the medium and long term, have negative impacts on society and the environment. Because if so many positive impacts have the Hard Rock Cafe, the question is: what impacts, if it's eight years ago that it's a project that's frozen? And come and defend that the Hard Rock Cafe has positive impacts. But if the project doesn't exist, it's far beyond the forecasts and spending on the assumptions of the Generality. It doesn't exist. If they are so concerned about the working conditions of the workers at Camp Tarragona, if they are so concerned about generating economic projects there, do so. They've had eight years to do it. The only thing they do is put the pastanague in the territory and spread an agony, while no one is really worried about generating job places in condition and stabilized in that territory. Therefore, it has, once and for all, stopped supporting projects that are of interest to the Box and little more. And finally, finally, let's celebrate that Republican Left makes the speech that you made today and clearly denounces that there are macro-projects in this country. I could've done it a few months ago and maybe we'd come to an agreement on the assumption. As they decided to follow the speeches of their partners and the Socialist Party, in the assumptions we did not reach an agreement. Because, although it has been systematically said that there is no public euro destined for the Hard Rock Cafe, what we see, when we look at the execution, is that they are still spending money to develop an urban development plan, which has only been felt because the CRT is located there and because there is the Hard Rock Cafe. Therefore, despite speeches by presidents and advisors that there will be no public euro for the Hard Rock Cafe, what we have seen so far is that there will be a systematically dedicated money. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.13.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.14.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I must recognize the group proposing the virtue of showing, therefore, clearly that the situation which is suffered by the government of Catalonia is very similar to that which they themselves are suffering from the Government of Spain; that is, two poor cohabitation partners. Today we are talking about one of Spain's main sources of wealth and occupation and, of course, our autonomous community. To talk about an economic activity that in Catalonia, it has been said, represents around the doze_per_cent of GDP and about 30,000_million annually, is necessary and opportune. To better understand the importance of the tourism sector, I have to say that in my constituency, in the province of Tarragona, tourism is the main socio-economic engine, and represents almost twenty-i-sis_percent of the total provincial GDP. If that's not enough, to give tourism and hospitality the importance they have... President, I don't think I'm counting on time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If this is not enough, I say, to give tourism and hospitality the importance they really have, we must bear in mind that more than twenty-eight percent of the contributors to the social security of the province of Tarragona belong to this sector, which with these numbers we must necessarily consider as a strategic sector. In a risk situation for the economy, arising from, among other issues, the negative effect of a pandemic that is still far from being controlled, we have to lead first with everything that has to do with the economy. We see the difficulties in keeping Nissan's jobs, for example, thousands of jobs that are in danger and that there is no alternative. And, in this case, as in others – we can talk about Mahle's case – so they are jobs in another strategic sector, such as the automotive industry. In a risk situation for the economy, I said, we must take great care of the economy and especially of the strategic sectors. Therefore, in this sense, this young man is a timely young man, because the strategic sector of tourism and the hostelry is having a bad time. It is a sector particularly affected by the negative effects of the pandemic, yes, but it is also affected by the lack of firm compromises on the part of public administrations in this sector – when there is a division in the area of governments it is difficult for there to be a firm compromise – a mature sector, with an unquestionable import from the economic and social point of view, an important impact on gross domestic product, but not less important on the sector's pesso, on job creation and on the labour market, and all this accompanied by important contributions to taxes and co-financing; a very important sector to which we must look with good eyes and to which public administrations must accompany so that they can maintain the supply and the quality of services. And that's not right. Look, I'm going to give you some data to see that the sector has long suffered in Catalonia. For what it does to the name of tourists with a first destination..., a main destination in Catalonia, the growth was sustained and constant until the year 2018. The data that I will give are referred to annually in October, because the latest data available in October are precisely those of October; therefore, we compare accumulated data from generation to October of each year. The number of tourists, the year 2016, until the month of October was little more than 16.172,000, with an increase of 4.61_per_cent respect the previous year. Between January and October 2017, the growth was set_per_cent, rising from 17.300.000 tourists. From generation to October 2018 the growth not only stopped, but it dropped 0.7_per_cent, just after the republish of the eight_seconds. And by the year 2019 the stagnation is clear, returning very much to the data of 2017 for what it does to the name of tourists. 2020 the davallada, justified for the covid-19, is more than seventy-eight_per_cent, arriving only to 3,713,000 tourists between generation and October. And it didn't get any better, with an increase of 25,35_per_cent and a name of 4_million_i_mig of tourists. If we add to this the fact that the year 2016 the average spending per tourist was almost a thousand_euros, going from one thousand_cents to one thousand_cents to one year 2019, they were less than six-cents to one year 2020 and arriving around 880 enguany, we are clear: there is a difficult crisis. And Barcelona Tourism confirms this, confirming that Catalan tourism, the tourism sector, has lost €35,000_million due to the pandemic, between 2020 and 2021. Therefore, we still need to get ahead of this sector and give it the institutional support it deserves and needs. And that's exactly what we're missing, maybe especially in the city of Barcelona, where the PSC, which today brings us this young man, rules. It is necessary to present a motion on tourism policies; it is much better not to put poles on the wheel to this strategic sector from the institutions that are governing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.15.0	And as the Mixed Group is not present to pronounce on the papers, the deputy of the Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr. Juan Luis Ruiz, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.16.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Very quickly, because in two minutes it's obvious that everything can't be answered, right? But, Mr. Bartomeu, here the only ones who have ruled Convergence and Union to Catalonia have been you. [[Some applause.]] So I'm done talking about socio-vergency, aren't I? And then another question. You, as much as you're defending tourism, so, listen, you've had an opportunity now with the assumptions that you'll probably approve next week. Because, look, I'll give you two examples. The first: there is a drop of more than 15_million euros to the tourist promotion. Precisely, when more necessary is the tourist promotion, when more necessary is, in order not to lose competitiveness, to make tourist promotion, this assumption lowers the game to the tourist promotion by 15_million euros. Home, you don't feel much, do you? Nor do you feel that, in the accompanying law, you will surely also vote for a slogan in which the tourism law will eliminate the concept of touristic municipalities. You don't get it either, do you? When the law of trade has the concept of touristic municipalities and, therefore, there are some, say, commercial timetables suitable for these touristic municipalities, you to the law of tourism will eliminate the concept of touristic municipalities; man, when each time they are more the municipalities that bet for tourism, as one of the most economic activities. Therefore, facts and no words. And for those parties, therefore, that constantly question tourism, that defend tourism, that always speak in the name of the territory, mirin, I will only remind them of a few words of Mark Twain, when I said that traveling is an exercise of fatal consequences for injury, intolerance and the prospector. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.17.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, once the 21st item on the order of the day is solid. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the challenges to modernising and transforming industry]] [[302-00071/13]] Let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the challenges to modernization and the transformation of the industry; presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pode. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.18.0	Well, good morning. Apologize to the counselor – they have already done so in the past – and he told us that he could not attend. Possibly they can't watch it, and the reason they can't watch it is to see with the background of the motion that we have presented, which is, say, the industrial situation that is living in these moments Catalonia – Nissan's tank, Mahle's tank –, this industrial problem that we are going through the past few years, right? Why, if we don't pay our respects back, Catalonia may have gone from being the factory of Spain – then..., we're not going to the 18th, 19th century, right? – to be the machine or the industrial engine of Spain, and unfortunately now we are at a time when we don't know if we can end up feeling the warehouse of Spain. And, of course, from being the factory, to being the industrial engine, to being able to remain a warehouse, I mean that the industrial engine, this last one we had been, is flu. He's got a lot of flu. Obviously, responsibility is not our only responsibility. This is the part that corresponds to us for the shortcomings of the political management that we have done in the past, but also, say, for the global context in which our economy is located and on which it is interdependent; this context of globalisation, finance, digitalization, which is, say, in a_marc where most of the great industrial enterprises that we have in Catalonia do not have the centre of decision here. For what follows, there has been a process of selling, at the time, native family and foreign capital entrepreneurs, which has caused decision-making centres to be out. The most emblematic case could be that of La Maquinista Terrestre i Marítima, a clear national company in the railway sector, which now turns out to be simply a subsidiary of a French multinational; powerful, but multinational, where decisions are not taken here, but they are taken outside, right? Therefore, centres of decision that are not here; very small business size, very micro-enterprise, that can be good for some things, but that, if it is not reached directly, if it is not also given the ability to obtain size, to be able to work together, to be able to ally, to create plataforms, it will hardly be able to be located in the world in which we are; or the disabilities that we have in knowledge, training, qualification, especially in technical medium qualifications, which sometimes make difficult the appropriate processes of business innovation, right? Clearly, this reality of globalisation, financing and digitisation of the economy, in a context of a lack of decision-making centres, a very small size of businesses and difficulties in knowledge and innovation, makes the processes of displacement and deindustrialisation that we are living and the effects they have on employment easy. That's why we plan to intervene here, isn't it? To intervene there, gaining more energy independence, gaining more independence in the land of materials and, therefore, introducing changes, changes to a new industrial model, where there is a pre-eminence, an important role of leadership of the public sector and putting people in the center; processes of fair transition in this industrial model change. Therefore, the young person raises questions about public leadership, about the uptake of investments under this leadership of the public sector, with clear commitments when we attract investments and also with equity participation in those companies that we give them public help, impulse of formation and knowledge. And it also clearly places the impulse of certain industrial strategies that allow us not only to accelerate these changes in the industrial model, but also enable us to stall productive activity in our country and also enable us to attract investments. But, of course, it defines some industrial strategies – obviously not all, but some industrial strategies – that in the land that changes – that give us more energy independence, more independence at the time of obtaining materials –..., allow economic investments, under public leadership, to see that there is a defined strategy of country, in the medium and long term, where investments can be effective, because they have, say, a temporary recurrence in the needs of the production model change, that they allow them to settle in our country. This is the object of the young man. And I want to thank the different elements of the different groups, both from the Republican Left, from Junts, as from the PSC, as from the same CUP, which I believe have also just given to the young man a major content of strengthening this strategic line of changing the product model. All right, all right, Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.19.0	To defend the papers presented, has, in the first place, the word, on behalf of the Socialists and Units per Avançar, the deputy Mr Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.20.0	Good morning. Thank you, Mrs Borràs, to Mrs Borràs, Mrs Borràs. MPs, MPs, Mr. Gallego, I'm not mad, am I? For everything I'm gonna say right now. With all the affection I have for him and his great tarann, but I believe that this young man is the iniquitous of a great contradiction that they will assume, I suppose, throughout 2022 as a minimum. I think today is the honor of Mr. Giró. He's not here, but I'm sure he's happy. Because, by the way, what did not happen to Pujol, what did not happen to Arthur Mas, was achieved by Mr. Giró: it is that the common ones embrace the economic postulates of Mr. Giró, of the old Convergence or of Junts at these times. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes... yes, yes, the one you gave a few months ago, it seems that in a week's run it changed all and you give the contrary. Time to time. And this young man is a good show of that. I would say to you: in these five pages of young man, who is rhetorical, there are good intentions, there are many elements that we share, how much money does the Government commit? How many? Zero – zero – let's make it clear. So, it's all very well all that he said, all that the different doormen will say, but in any case, nothing will change. And all that they were criticizing the UPC for blocking certain changes, so look, I think we approved more things with the UPC in some of the issues they were making progress and in specific assumptions, which is not what makes the sense that we will approve with you. I'm saying this because they haven't approved of us... they accept some of our ideas, but of all those who have to deal with presuppositional parties, with money, they don't accept any of us. So they won't do it, because we're not moving out of the way, nor let them do it, approving what's good for the country. We'll see if this pact you guys presented yesterday is serious or not, or if it's just a circumstantial chrome change, to get out of the way, and we'll see if in a while, so, the thing goes on. What else? As we said, we have offered more resources for the SOC, employment policies – they have not accepted it –; more resources for forest management – we have made a deal, but obviously the supposition parties have disappeared. We have made a proposal for more resources for the industry; neither have they accepted it. We made a proposal because there's more money for tourism; they didn't accept it either. And I ask myself, if this young man is approved and we don't want any euro, we can't vote for him. In some we will vote in favour, but in some others we will abstain, because we share [[Funnel veils]] , we share the objectives, but without concrete actions and without money, obviously that was not the case. Time to time, Mr. Cid, it's not nervous, it's nothing – it's nothing. Here everyone has to explain their political position, and we were there because there was a presumption, we were going to change the presuppositional structures and we were there for you to give it all just a year ago; not what you say today. We were also there because they explain why they make a presupposition agreement that they agree with the CRT, but that there is no public money. Do you or do you not agree with the CRT? No, no, But then they assume it's fa - they assume it's fa. The only one who doesn't spend public money on it, but they assume it's done. Home, I suppose you must have read the agreement you signed; I read it to me. Okay? So, let's see... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, that's what they have to explain. Let's see how we stop industrial destruction, see how we do a country strategy, precisely because education, infrastructure, innovation, research, energy transition accompany this new economic model that we need. You ask me: is this the reason why we really aim at the economic industrial future of our country for the next few years, which will put an end to industrial destruction and ensure that we move forward? We don't think so. Will he stay? No, obviously there won't be any left. There are very positive reflections. Are there effective actions with resources? No, no, That said, and I'm grateful that three items that have no presuppositional entry have been accepted, but I think they also helped create a map to find out where we have optical fiber coverage, telephone coverage, problems and deficiencies in electricity in the country... Why do we sometimes have great reflections, but the most important or the most basic we haven't solved, huh? And we have a lot of points in the country where I don't know how to push the industry if we don't get optical fiber, if we don't have mobile phone coverage, etc. To know where we have it, where there are deficiencies, and to make a calendar to solve them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.21.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the word, after all, the deputy Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.22.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. In Comú We can present a motion on industry to Catalonia that consists of divided points; we have not traded half; we have accepted various papers. I thank the whole and the predisposition of your group face, therefore, to find a text that can provide solutions. Well, we'll have a dual reality this year 2021. Even though the first quarter was a closed and confined economy, so we had cows and we reopened, so we had an extraordinary six-month period, and 2021 will overcome some of the results of the year 2019, which was a year of remembering almost all the indicators. It is not clear in terms of gross domestic product, but in exports, in traffic of contents and in number of affiliates to social security, 2021 will mark a year of maximum historical to the Catalan economy. Last week, a Movement of the Popular Party on the decadence of Catalonia coincided happily the same day that the Port of Tarragona published data from the first nine months of the year, that the Port of Tarragona exceeded that of Bilbao, was the most creed of the State... Yesterday we held data from the Port of Barcelona: from generation to November, more five percent of growth in relation to 2019, surpassing the prepandemic traffics. So, it's a dual year. In 2019 the automotive sector led growth and exports. 2019 is the SEAT record year: record in production, sell benefits and exports. Now, in change, the car is heavily affected by the breakdown of global logistics chains. But 2021 is the chemical sector, the pharmaceutical sector, the sector of the new technologies and the agri-food sector that are placing the Catalan economy at the levels of the year 2019. There are, however, also bad news. Nissan doesn't seem to have any stuff in the sector. Mahle, that yesterday we had another meeting with the unions here in Parliament. We would like to make a joint task to identify and determine responsibilities for this non-inversion of the Chinese group to the Free Zone. And here we are, Mr Gallego, with the reality that we have been carrying for 20 years in this Parliament denouncing. Who is reserved exclusively for the management of Catalan taxes? Who wanted to monopolize European foundations? Who reserves the issue of public debt? The central government. The unions, the workers must demand from Minister Maroto, the arrogant Minister Maroto, responsibilities. The one who said that the battery plant would be near Martorell, but we have already seen that it will leave three hundred kilometers away. I, as Business Councillor, held meetings a few months ago with global entrepreneurs who wanted to make a boat plant in Catalonia and where we had already placed four destinations on the table, but they sailed to the ministry and told them: "We'll see it, we'll see it... And they were passing the weeks and the months, and at the end they ended up leaving. He'll know everything. But, well, for now, we'd have to find a shared analysis of this point. Last week, a Madrid newspaper published that Slovenia surpasses Spain in GDP per capita, and that this surplus was defined, not transitory. Let's get out of here. The Spanish State, according to the Airef, has invested 60,000_million euros in the last fifteen years in high speed. These are from the Independent Fiscal Authority. It is the country of Europe which, as a percentage of GDP, has invested the most in railways. But what does economic literature and empirical evidence tell us? That the rail investment that increases the competitiveness of cities and metropolitan regions is the one that goes round and round, which is the one that does not systematically make the governments of Madrid. I, fixed's, the Mediterranean Corridor is arriving in Catalonia in the form of low cost, via third wire; that no one else does it to the world, that they do not do it to Madrid or Seville. Because the European standard of compulsory compliments to the European rules of the priority rail network of goods says that there must be two new European wide lives only for goods, segregations of the traffic of passengers. And here we are building a traffic..., we are building a third wire, which will combine raffle and merchandise, which will be saturated in no time. At SEAT de Martorell, for example – data from the company –: the day the train arrives, the Mediterranean Corridor at the door, four hundred euros for each car. And I have information that this was to come in... this third wire was to arrive this November, and now we're not going to 2023. SEAT is losing millions of euros, which could reduce costs and not be done. But, in any case, listen to me, I am pleased that in this case you have accepted the papers that we have presented on the Mediterranean Corridor for the interior of Tarragona and also for the interior of Penedès – with Congresswoman Lluïsa Llop we have been talking about it – ; it is very important that we start to plan for where we want the two lives that the European Union is asking for, and for which there is European money, for the interior of Catalonia, so that our country is still factory and not warehouse. We still feel like a factory, but the Spanish State, with the money coming from Europe, has to do the job in Catalonia. You are the Spanish Government, you also have a share of responsibility; help us to make Catalonia still feel like factory and warehouse. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.23.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.24.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies, deputies. First of all, I would like to thank Mr Gallego, the Group of the European People's Party, for presenting this motion. A motion on the challenges of modernizing and transforming industry, a subject that from the Republican Left we know in terms of the economic development of the country; a subject and a sector, obviously, cabdals. We need – and we are convinced that this will be – a government that will lead the process of transformation that needs the joint industrial sector; in fact, a government that will lead – and that will be – the process of transformation that needs not only the industrial sector, but the joint economy of the country. We must lead this transformation of the production model and make it from the hands, obviously, of the social agents, of all those agents of investigation, of innovation, of knowledge, of the professional colleges of the field and, above all, of this leadership, of the hand of the concertation, absolutely essential in order to achieve a repte of country as we face, and to do so in the line of making it much more sustainable, more resilient, and putting people at the center of interest, the workers and the workers. A government that leads the transformation of the industrial sector of the hands of social agents and also of the majority of this chamber, that will be absolutely essential, and that lays the foundations for it in the national pact for the industry; a pact that has driven the government and that has to be the executive agency with concrete actions for this transformation, because real actions, concrete and enforceable actions in these measures are required. This extensive motion addresses many of the necessary points of this modernization and transformation of the industrial sector, many of the points necessary for the re-industrialisation of the country, which we obviously do succinctly, because the format thus requires us, but I think it brings a lot of good news, and it is that we understand that it will have, as a result of the negotiation and the debate we have had, a broad consensus of approval in this chamber in many of its points, which will be voted favorably for the same majority that will give the approval of the presumption of the Generality. Therefore, an absolutely essential premise that will give continuity to these lines that we will approve today in this Plenary; a premise that will be feasible the coming week and that will entail, in the field of Enterprise and Work, an increment of 28,8_percent of its assumption, absolutely necessary to bring forward all these policies. This young man, as I said, makes many aspects. I won't mention them all, because it's obviously impossible, but in many ways it hinges on the five areas envisaged in the national pact for industry. We are talking about sustainability, energy and circular economy, digitalisation, this industry 4.0, innovation, internationalisation; we are talking about human capital, industrial occupation and training, the necessary and absolutely essential infrastructure, finance and the size of business. So, as I say, from the Republican Esquerra Group – and I want to thank the facilities for the debate and for being able to agree on the different points of the Gallego MP – we will vote very much in favour. In fact, of all the points, we will only vote against the original points of the motion in two of the aspects that we cannot support, such as the need to condition us to participate actively in the granting of public aid to the industries that must survive the transitions – or to which I advise its strategic character – because, although we share the philosophy that there may be this participation, it is obvious that we cannot condition that there is always, and it is much more extensive the case study than the textbook we have proposed; in fact, in this line we are using our ideas. The same way we can't give support to promoting a law of industrial activity, because just now we just have the law of APEUs, like the one you say, and what we understand is that it's now that it has its application, it's to throw it in and not get into a new regulation. Therefore, I insist, a broad support that we will give to this young man, because we share his objectives, we share his aspects in a very majority form. I want to end with two aspects that I understand is... because I understand that it is very good, and so it must be, to claim the leadership of the Government of the Generality; it is necessary, it is essential, and this leadership will be there. But it's obvious that while we're in the Spanish State, too, that the Spanish government is pulling a lot of basics. First, yes to reindustrialization; but also, yes, to give tools to the workers, to give tools to the labor authority, because they can defend the current work places and keep them. Therefore, let us repeal, once and for all, labour reforms. And, in the same way, we are, as Congressman Tremosa said, a Mediterranean corridor that does not take advantage of existing lines of rolling stock. It is not a Mediterranean corridor to climb the R4 or the R2 in its step for the Penedès. It's not this step, doing it for the inside... – I forgive – to do it in the case of Tarragona; it's not the way. We need a Mediterranean broker who can get the goods, because this will also give competitiveness to our businesses. And that's not just an objective... and, unfortunately, it's not the policy of the Catalonian Government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.25.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.26.0	Well, thank you, President. We find ourselves with a young lady who's got a lot of stuff. And, sometimes, when you want to tackle a lot of things, there are a few concrete things, right? And, so... because we're talking about industry, but there are a lot of things, and so it's hard to land. There are, therefore, many proposals which are very general and little concrete, and which, therefore, sometimes, in general, one can agree with, and the problem is always when it is intended to be concrete. And so, it's hard or it's a bit of a trap at the time of positioning, because we'll share it in that generic, and we'll set the differences when we put the magnifying glass in it. One of the elements that is very important, which has to do with the national pact for industry, in the process that is taking place..., we share that it is essential to address a debate in depth on how the industry in the public sector is driven, how we reindustrialize the country; however, we have doubts that, as it is becoming pregnant, all the indispensable sectors are taken into account or that they must have a role to play in this process. Because I need to incorporate new visions, too, into the debate on which model of industry we want, and, therefore, as well as the cooperative sector, that the sector of feminism and ecology are also involved in the design and planning of the industrial model. And that's why we presented some ideas that were trying to open the window of what the national pact for industry is now..., or how it's made up right now and how it's working; ideas that were not accepted. In the same way that we are concerned that, according to the timetable of the national pact for industry, we should already have a plot of something and there is nothing here. Therefore, everyone poses on the table that is indispensable or that is a priority, but for the time being the year 2021 is coming to an end and there is no draft national pact for industry by 2022. And we are at a time when yesterday Mahle's workers were here at the door and they gathered with representatives of the different parliamentary groups; we are at a time when we see that the table for Nissan's reindustrialisation is not working and is looking at a very worrying situation for thousands of workers, but also for the country. It is therefore essential that this debate should take place and that, if necessary, we include those actors who would bring different perspectives to it. I mean, finally, us, with the saying, right? It's a young woman who has a lot of points, and so it's hard at certain times to be clear, when you put the magnifying glass on it, whether we share it or not. And, therefore, in some points we shall abstain; in others we shall vote that yes and in some we shall vote that no. We are concerned, especially at these points that we vote not, that it reproduces a mantra that for us is worrying and that has established itself in the country, that it has to see with us an energetic transition or as we certainly approach new energies, putting the focus on hydrogen and the fight. See, the hydrogen industry, or hydrogen as an energy element, has many limitations. And we don't have to be conscious and we have to explain them, we can't generate reports that give some expectations that aren't. Hydrogen has many limitations and it will always be necessary to produce, and we also need to take this into account. And it will be hard to produce, because it always loses a lot of energy in its production; in fact, today we are talking about the fifty-per-cent turn of energy that is lost. And, therefore, that we also have... this is an element that you incorporate in point 16, which generates us doubts as it is established. We should have a deep debate about what the hydrogen industry is all about. And around the fight, too, because there's not enough fighting in the world, is there? And that, therefore, these expectations that we have in this we have to take into account. Extraction is contaminating and, therefore, it is very difficult for there to be a 100_per_cent electric mobility future if we understand it as the replacement of combustion for electricity. And that this debate also needs to be placed on the table, because what is needed for electrical mobility requires energy or resources that are limited and therefore cannot be interspersed as it is. So, as I said, in a few points we will vote in favour, in many we will abstain and in some we will vote against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.27.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.28.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first of the two motions we are debating this morning on industry, on the situation of industry in Catalonia; a motion that follows the usual tone of the proposed group, from the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pode: it is a typical lineçol to which we are accustomed. And in this case, we can say that the occasion deserves it. As is logical, there is an ideological view, especially in a few points, which we, the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, cannot share, which makes us go forward to say that a part of the content finally proposed, of the final draft of the motion, as it also passed with its initial draft..., we would not vote for them, but other yes. Mainly – and this I want to make very clear – because from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans we are now doing what we have always done in this Parliament: the feeling of our vote is not directly conditioned by the acronyms and the ideology of who proposes a motion or a motion for a resolution; the feeling of our vote is determined by what we are voting for. Therefore, as there are proposals that we can share and that we believe stickers to try to modernise and transform the industry in Catalonia, because we believe that they are interesting proposals for the Catalan industrial sector, for companies and workers, so we have no problem giving it support. We in the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group have presented a message to this motion, specifically in paragraph 1.4, at the first point of the motion. A point of addition that wanted to add to the text that is also deployed terrestrial, maritime and air communication infrastructures. Finally, the proposed group, following the line that it had been looking for for several months and that started the last weeks, therefore, to give support to the government of Mr Aragonès, preferred to deal with the groups of the government, with the groups of the Republican Left and Juntes per Catalunya. We find it logical. Perhaps because In Comú We may have been the new preferred partner of the cohabitation government of institutional separatism. A preferred partner who doesn't support the two government cohabitation partners alike; this I think is clear. And anyway, today we also have an exhibition of this internal division that has this cohabitation government. In any case, even though we have not accepted the slogan, from Ciutadans we will vote in favour of the point we wanted to discuss, because it seems to us an opportunity to boost the Catalan industry. I've already told them that the young man is long enough, he has the typical features of the lençol, to which, therefore, we are well accustomed. And, as you can imagine, we will not fully support the motion. There will be negative votes and abstentions as well. For example, we will abstain from point 4, a point that they have also traded with those who cohabit with the Government. And we do, because we've seen them from all colors in time to seek consensus in the local area on the part of those who govern the Generality. If what needs to be done to cope with the challenges of modernising and transforming industry in Catalonia is to arrive at territorial pacts in every case, we have..., better said, have, those who govern autonomy, quite complicated. Policies to modernise and transform industry must be considered strategic. And strategic policies have to be applied, if they can be, with the maximum consent, but in no case can they be left dead for lack of consent. Even so, we are particularly urged by the Government to see that it is seeking territorial pacts to implement industrial development policies, and when a region such as Baix Penedès is closing a consensus pact for all the mayors of the region, for the Conseil Comarcal and, even more importantly, for the Diputación de Tarragona, the response of the Government of the Generalitat continues to ignore the requests of the region that goes to the Catalonian community in occupation and economic growth, with a terrible deindustrialization that will still make the situation of its citizens more difficult. But we're used to it, the paper can handle it. At least we'll abstain from point 9, and Mahle's paranoia, which may be a little bit of a waste of staff. We will vote against various points, especially for interventionists and to rely on legal reforms that will almost never come to a good end. In any case, she is a young woman who contemplates positive aspects, which, as I said, we will support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.29.0	I, finally, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.30.0	Good morning, President. In Comú Pomera we present eighteen initiatives to modernize and transform the industry, but the reality is that they cannot be further from the needs of the sector. Unfortunately, it is a fact that our region has lost weight in the economy compared to other regions of Spain. This situation is not the fault of the 2007 crisis, neither the pandemic nor the State. The perpetrators of this situation have names and surnames: Esquerra Republicana, Junts, the CUP, En Comú Puem, and the « payafantas del PSC ». [[Widow's remorse.]] You, with your rupturistic delusions, are the ones who have led our region to a situation of economic decline. From 2017 to this day, business flight is a reality, no matter how hard you all try to cover it up. Let us focus on some of its initiatives, such as 1.4, which talks about ensuring workable guarantees of gender equality. I really don't know what gender equality has to do with the modernization of industry. What I do know is that you put gender equality even in soup. The second is an initiative that speaks of a national pact that follows the axes and objectives of the 2030 agenda. It's not the 2030 agenda, it's the ruin agenda. We have a plan; a plan that allows for re-industrialisation and guarantees our energy sovereignty; a plan that stops depopulation and looks for empty Spain; a plan that protects our products from unfair competition; a plan that encourages birth rather than the import of illegal immigrants [[some applause]] ; a plan that takes care of all Spaniards alike. This plan is called the "Spain Agenda". And part of that plan can be seen in the nineteen initiatives of our motion, which will shortly defend my colleague Antonio Gallego. The sixth section deals with the condition that public aid should be granted to industries which are expected to survive the transitions or to those which advise them to do so on a strategic basis. I call this ‘intervention companies and killing the economy; the same as in communist countries, no wonder coming from you. Eleven refers to measures for the SOC. Look, SOC is a disaster and has never exercised its responsibility professionally. What has to be done with the SOC is to close it and transfer it to the Government of Spain. Initiatives fourteen and fifteen. Since they don't have enough to create chiringuitos, they now intend to transform these chiringuitos into macrochiringuitos. The truth is, they don't have a cure. You have to see what they like to waste Catalan money on friends and family. Thanks to policies like yours, we cannot fail to point out what is happening in the industry in our region. For example, the closure of Nissan, that of the Mahle, that yesterday were manifesting itself at the door of Parliament, since neither the Government of Catalonia, to which you support in your budgets, nor the Government of the Nation have been able to find the solution so that all these workers do not stay on the street. But worst of all, you think you're doing it superbly and that you're the best in the world. So look, Catalonia cannot be allowed for any longer its imaginary, separatist, sectarian, totalitarian, Marxist-communist policies, which only do they end our industry and bring us to social and economic ruin. Our vote will be against initiatives that have ideological burdens and in favour of those that are for the good of our industry and of all Spaniards. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.31.0	After the defense of the papers presented, has the word, to fix the position, the deputy Mrs Eva Parera, on behalf of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.32.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. I am surprised to debate a motion on the pact for industry without starting with the necessary assessment of the previous pact for industry; I think it is indispensable. The fact that we are ahead of a negotiation of a new pact for industry means that the former has been a failure. And I think this is where it's going to start reversing everything that didn't work out. One of the premises of his youth is to strengthen the role of the public sector in transforming the industry. In fact, they're talking about your public leadership. Start this way, your young lady. So we believe that this is just the opposite of what the industry needs. What matters is that the public sector accompanies the industrial sector in its transformation, not the leader. It's legal security, it's political, but it's less regulation, it's less taxes. And the most logical thing here would be to agree on the basis of the sector and not among the parliamentary groups. And in the end, what we have to do is make our agreements or proposals that come from the sector and, above all, take account of the speeches we make with the industry, because, of course, I remember that the speech you have in Barcelona against the automotive industry is a terrible irresponsibility; we do not see the consequences. Also tell them that we can't give support to more laws, new laws. The problems posed by industrial policies are not solved with more laws, but are solved with greater inversion. And at this point I want to remind you that you support some assumptions where it is intended less for Industry than in 2020. They could have taken advantage, in the negotiation of these assumptions, so... if so much concern for the sector, they would have called for a major reversal. Because that's what it's like: that the generality invests more; that it negotiates with the state and with the rest of the autonomous communities to get to a better model of finance in the sector. Nor can we support a proposal that they make in one of the points, which is that public aid for investing is conditioned on effective and appreciable commitments to stable job creation. No one can reasonably guarantee this; I know it very hard. I don't know if you've ever run a company, but there's no company that can guarantee and ensure that you'll create jobs in a stable way; it's what they're all after, but it's hardly what they're all getting. Neither can they give support to the rebin fund Next Generation companies that are displacing or hosting collections. It seems to us that circumstances and needs can be very varied and, in fact, may not be just very unfair, but counterproductive, because some companies may need these Next Generation funds to save work places, to save their activity, and to precisely avoid this displacement or these collections. So, it looks like... we're not starting from the wrong assumptions and we need to understand the sector a little more how it works and above all talk a lot more with the sector. In this sense, then, we ask for a separate vote in a few points, because we can't give support to the whole set of his motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.33.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.34.0	Well; thanks to all the interventions, both to the leaders as they have positioned themselves in relation to the movement. I think that if we don't, we've got some of the objectives that the honourable Member had: to see that we have a problem with the industry at home; to say, "We're no longer the factory in Spain, we're no longer the industrial engine in Spain and we have the danger of finishing up is a simple store. We agree that we have a problem and we also agree, I think, all of us, with the need to change the industrial model. The reason for this is to place the great strategic horizons to make this change: public leadership, consensus, balance and territorial equity, horizontal industrial policies, instruments that facilitate and guarantee the fair transition and tractor proposals that add and consolidate investments in our country, in strategies linked to more general interest. This is the background of the movement in which the different groups can position themselves with the shades you want. But he doesn't talk about fighting, this young man doesn't talk about fighting. Someone has spoken here about litigation; the young lady doesn't talk about it. Talk about green hydrogen, which is something else. He's not talking about ics euros in mortgages. If so, it talks about presupposingly providing the necessary measures, and the organizational and technical changes that make it possible. It's about conditioning equity participation. And here I'd like some group... and this one goes directly to Mr. Ordeig. I would like to share the need that, when there are public aid to certain enterprises, these public aid vagina accompanied by shareholder participation, because if a problem has our country it is the loss of decision-making capacity of certain enterprises installed in our country. We cannot continue to give aid to lost funds without having the capacity to decide the industrial strategies that manage these investments and these aids to the occupation, quality and industrial development of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.35.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, once the 21st item on the order of the day is solid. [[Pau Juvillà Ballester compatibility or incompatibility situation]] [[234-00130/13]] Yes, Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.36.0	By virtue of Article 83.3, to amend the agenda and incorporate the opinion adopted yesterday to the Commission of the Statute of the Deputies, on the situation of compatibility or incompatibility and on the condition of Member of Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.37.0	Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs. Vilalta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.38.0	Yes; President, also under Rule 83.3, to add to the proposal which has now been made by the CUP spokesman, to add to be able to amend the agenda of the plenary, and, therefore, to incorporate this opinion which was yesterday voted on and approved by the Committee on the Statute of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.39.0	Thank you. Yes, Mr. Rius, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.40.0	Yes; in the same sense that the Republican spokesman has just expressed, to join us - there are also from Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.41.0	Okay. So in accordance with Rule 83.3, we shall put this item on the agenda to the vote of the plenary. I'll do the three calls to vote. [[Long break.]] So we did the three calls to vote, we proceed to the vote on the incorporation of this new point. Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.42.0	President, just for the sake of parliamentary courtesy, if we can wait 30 seconds for the vote, we'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.43.0	Okay. So, actually, I did the three screams, but I did them in a very short time. Therefore, we would expect the incorporation of some Member. I'll make another call and wait a minute. [[Long break.]] All right. So now, having passed the three preceptive calls and the minute of grace, let's start the vote. The vote on this item on the agenda was 113 votes in favour and 16 against. Therefore, this point is incorporated in the order of the day. We will proceed to vote on it immediately. Is there any group that wants to speak before this vote? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Roldan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.44.0	President, it's a petition. Because, if we have to vote again, I would ask you to repeat the call to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.45.0	Okay. So, as a matter of fact, we have to take a vote on this point, I was just asking if there was any group that wanted to use the word before the vote on this opinion. If that's not the case, I'll call it a vote again. [[Long break.]] Yes, Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.46.0	He asked if any group wanted to make an intervention. We want to make a brief intervention, if we are authorized.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.47.0	We were, the call for a vote has already begun, but I'll give you two minutes, if you want to make an intervention from the escho.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.48.0	Well, we were going to discuss this subject with the Committee on the Status of Deputies; it is no secret that our group is against it. But beyond the point of the question, it seems to us that there is an important question of form: the fact that this is being substantiated in this unexpected way. We think that many irregularities are accumulating here; or, then, that Parliament is settling in a position of systemic disobedience to the legal framework. So, it's literally impossible, much as it's argued that the articles in the Rules say... they can't go any further than an organic law like LOREG. There is a precedent that has already passed in the Congress. So I'd pray... I mean, all these presses, all these substances, let's just say, ghostly and for the gangs it seems like they're making a bait for the chamber, for the dignity of this chamber, and, above all, for the credibility of this chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.49.0	We are scrupulously following the Rules, which in Article 83.3 allows that, when there is the request for..., more than two parliamentary groups making the request for a modification of the agenda, this modification of the agenda may be incorporated. Yesterday there was a session of the Committee on the Status of Deputies; there was an opinion, and that is what we are voting on now. I make the third call to the vote and we will start. [[Pause.]] So if we had made the third call to vote, we would vote on this opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies. The vote begins. The opinion of the Committee on the Statute of the Deputies received 113 votes in favour and 16 votes against. The opinion was adopted. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you very much. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into labour rights]] [[302-00074/13]] Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about labor rights; presented to the Republican Left Group. He has the word, to make his presentation, Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.50.0	Well, president, thank you. President, deputies, deputies, workers and workers of Parliament, Francesc de Dalmases... [[Rialles.]] I've been waiting for a stonette to start, but I haven't been out yet. Well, very quick. We have already seen the proposal that we are bringing to the House today, the proposal that we are bringing to debate and vote; a proposal of four points, four points that are part of our usual speech, our speech as Republicans, our speech to confront the problems and conflicts that we have in the field of work and industry in our country, and also talking about the tools and capabilities that we have as the public administration to deal with these conflicts. I, therefore, at the first important point, could not fail: a derogation from labour reforms; a derogation from labour reforms of the Socialist Party of 2010 and a derogation from labour reforms of the People's Party of 2012. Labour reforms that have been against the working class; labour reforms that have not facilitated an economic development that brings equity and brings value to industrial policy and economic policies in the country and, above all, labour reforms that prevent the Administration from being able to participate, be able to intervene in a labour dispute, before it already holds the regulation dispatch from the top of the table. And, therefore, empower the labor authority; the labor authority that must have the capacity to mediate, that must have the ability to make a call to the companies for such a finding solutions, that it is compromised with the solutions and that it also contributes..., to the solutions. And a good part of these companies that cause great conflicts in our country are multinationals, they are companies that have the matriu, they have the central, outside the country, they are companies that have the completely untangled central of the plants that we have. And we see it in the successful conflicts that we are experiencing and in what ways from the Republican Left Group we also give full support to the workers; the past, that of Mahle, but also that of Nissan. And, therefore, essential – essential – to empower the labor authority so that it can intervene and mediate in conflicts. And this is the first point of our young lady. Second point of the young man. Let's talk about the Next Generation fund. And these Next Generation funds are never to be used to give support or financing to companies that displacelitzen, to companies that present job regulation shippers. For one canto reben fundos and for the other accomodate workers. This can't happen in our country. And, therefore, this second point is also essential for the conflict we have with Mahle, but for other conflicts that we have been living in the past. In the conflict with Mahle is evidence. Next Generation funds cannot feed a company that outsources workers, in this case the Vilanova plant and the Geltrú. Third point, also important and which was the basis, too, of our inquiry at its time: Labour Inspectorate of Catalonia. More resources and that the State expedites the processing so that we can have more human resources to be able to meet the needs at the level of labour inspection that we have in this country. We also need labour inspection to be empowered, and we need to be empowered precisely to facilitate the equal competitiveness of all companies, but above all to ensure – to ensure – and guarantee the working rights of workers in our country. So, third point, essential. And here we have reached a compromise agreement with the Socialist Party, which is also committed and which reinforces this commitment so that there are joint campaigns and that we can reach more space in this sense. And, finally, the fourth point, a fourth point that we divide into three phases. The first, a national pact for industry, essential to lead the transformation that the country needs. The second, intervention of the public sector. We need a strong public sector to intervene; to intervene firmly and to be part of the solution of the transformation. And that, therefore, the public sector is also involved as a major lever of change in this country. And, finally, a third – the third – that refers to the code of practical good; a code of practical good that must also help us to raise awareness of the country's business fabric so that it respects, above all, for its workers and for the territory where it develops its activity. A respect that Mahle is not having and that we have been complaining about ever since, because it is indicative of the situation of the enterprise and the performance of the enterprise and its position respects its own workers – indignant. Mahle, not so! Therefore, Mahle is not a tank. And lastly, give thanks to the deputies, the Gallego and Gibert companies, for their discussions and for having had a dialogue and getting to some point. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.51.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word, in the name of En Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.52.0	Well, good morning. We share the motion presented, which has just been introduced by MP Jordi Albert, right? We share it, fundamentally, because the framework of labor relations that prevails in our country is socially unjust about people, but it is also inefficient economically. So, let's just say, with this set of labour relations we can hardly deal with the social problems that we have or the economic problems that we have. Therefore, we would like to repeal labour reform, we agree. We need to democratize labor relations, we need to democratize what goes on between businesses, don't we? That is why we have set up a task that we have assumed, say, which refers to this concept of a just transition: changes must also accompany the problems that can arise over working people. It's a fair transition. Cal change model. But in this model changer no one can stand back. And if no one can stand back, it means that we will have to generate the mechanisms, the tools needed to accompany people in the old-to-new traffic processes. And that's fun, it's been taken over and, therefore, it's nice that we've taken over this item. Repealing labour reform is the slogan, but we all understand that beyond repealing labour reform, we are putting forward a new model of labour relations, in line with the needs that our society, people, has today, and that it also has today, the product model change, the change, the modernization of businesses. A new framework of labor relations that democratizes these in and out of businesses. A new set of labor relations, too, which recovered some of the things that, unfortunately, we lost with the latest labor reforms for which he does competitive skills in Catalonia. And here, let me also make some real lamentation. Because sometimes we're left with the phrase that we want to get back the administrative authority that we had before and that they took it with labor reform. Yeah. But do you know why she took the job reform from us? Because a group called Convergence and Union explicitly asked the People's Party, when the People's Party did not have it in its labor reform. And it was Convergence and Union that said "we will vote for it if you accept this slogan, that it was an explicit waiver of a pro-Ctalunya competition, that allowed the workers to have an element of defence and that Convergence and Union, because its object is class– it was and it is class, that it is not national–, demanded the express waiver of a competence that has helped many workers today to defend themselves before the excess of authoritarianism that many companies have undertaken in their processes of re-adjustment of the occupation, in relation to the change in production. So, okay. We agree on that. But let us know from the point of view; because it is important to know from the point of view of this question that it was placed in the labour reform. And we agree that Next Generation funds can't get to businesses that have work practices, that they take over, that do displacement processes. And we agree that Next Generation funds cannot address this; just as we agree that public help can't address this either. Even European foundations must not be devoted to these things... but that neither those foundations that we decide from our own policies are directed to companies that have business practices – that delocalize, host or cheat on the law in the contract. And we agree, obviously also, that there can be no other way in which to reinforce the role of work inspection. Labour inspection is important; it is important not only to ensure the legal framework of labour relations, not only to combat fraud in labour relations, it is also a positive instrument to help companies to modernise themselves, to try to place the most strategies of labour relations that make it easier for them to make changes, necessary adaptations, without harming anyone. It is important to have a proactive labour inspectorate, which sanctions when it comes, but at the same time, it also helps businesses in change processes. Because precisely what we want from this new labour reform, or from this counter-work reform, or let us say it as we wish, from this new framework of labour relations..., that what we also want is, say, a framework of labour relations that helps in this just way, that helps people, that guarantees the democratization of labour relations; but also, say, we want a framework of labour relations that situates the elements of the necessary flexibility that companies must have in order to adapt to the change that is produced in the economic and labour environment. But a negotiated flexibility, a negotiated internal flexibility; not an imposed flexibility, not a worker free of the availability of economic interests or business goods, but a negotiated flexibility, which allows him to adapt to change, but from respect for the rights of people and the needy, also of the product changes to be generated at certain times. All the more, thank you very much. And we will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.53.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Pol Gibert has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.54.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Today we have a young man who, let's just say, is unnecessary. It is a young man who obviously repeats points that we have taken to this Parliament many times. There are some I remember... infinite times, surely, in this Parliament, aren't there? , and that today we will be voting again. It's a young man we share in the fund, but not in the form. And I'll explain why. It's the typical government's motive, which is consistent with the state government and much of its competence. And that's a classic, let's just say, we don't find anything today with this government policy, do we? And why? So why is the language that it uses to demand the government of the state's commitment hard, blunt, explicit. In change, on the part of the second half of the motion, which refers to the government's commitments, it is his, without calendars, without resources. And, obviously, this denotes the willingness to bring some policy forward and others, so leave them behind. I will make a clarification to Deputy Jordi Albert, because he has made reference to whether there is any type of European aid in the case of Mahle, and he knows that this is not the case, let us say, that we have proven that this is not the case, with which we can already celebrate it, that we do not have any type of European aid. What we don't know yet is if there's any of the generality. We asked the question in writing – hopefully we have an immediate answer – about whether there is any public aid from the Government of the Generality. We hope that this will not be the case either, obviously, seeing the behaviour of this company in our territory and that it hardly affects a municipality like Vilanova, which is already heavily punished for the industrial crisis. Today we believe that it is missing an important opportunity to give support to collective bargaining that is trying to repeal labour reform. And we say so, quite simply. We believe that at a time like we are, you may be able to reach an agreement in the area of labour reform, so we believe that it was a time to give this support to this negotiation between social workers so that we can bring forward this reform that we all ask for years and years ago. And today we don't. We have fallen into the typical writing of criticizing the Government of the State for many things, let's say; in change, we do not support this difficult labour reform process, which I think will see the light in a few days and we can celebrate it, too, in this Parliament, which we have asked many times. For what it does to the field of industry, which is the field, in the end, which is our competence and which we can approach directly. We have done two things – they are also innovative; they are classics of our parliamentary group – in which we ask, therefore, to recover the industrial parties of 2010. As you know, it's an issue that we make many times our Socialist Group, because we think it's essential. With 50_million euros we've had for years, because of the industrial pressure, we don't go anywhere. We can do the big national pact for industry; we can do what we say; but with 50_million euros we don't get anywhere. Can we make a statement saying that we are not going to let anyone go back to work and work? They can do it. And we'll be so wide. No problem. But either we stay resources because that's not going to happen, or that's going to happen anyway. Not because we don't say it, it won't happen. And this is done with resources from the SOC, with resources from Industry, with training, because with this transformation that sees the industrial sector no one is left for this path. The labor transition that we have to make, from jobs that are disappearing to places that they create, from us, or there are resources left or that will not happen. We have to tell each other in the face. They can't keep it any longer, that's the subject. That's not going to be magic. To the people who are standing back, or we'll accompany them with public resources or they won't find a new place to work. And we have to deal with this, too, from this Parliament. And we will obviously not solve this by developing a code of good practices. Which can be very necessary, obviously, and we're in favour of what you're doing. But to say this and not to remain a single euro more to industrial policy or to policy of occupation, seems hypocritical. We must be able to say, in this Parliament. Because making a code of good practices, getting old because no one is left behind... obviously everyone agrees to this. But, either we stay on the table to make it possible, or what are we talking about? We will vote for this young man, we will give him a great deal of support in this Parliament, and the debt will go on the same way: no change, no worker will see a better in his conditions. In fact, our group proposed a draft. The exact amount of resources to be allocated: EUR 150_million to Industry. She hasn't been accepted. We have another thought in which we say: "Well, if this cannot be, try to increase the targeted parties, without concrete timetables or quantity. He couldn't accept it either. So, what are we talking about? We approve of this young man, we will give him support, we will applaud him very strongly, we will take wonderful pictures and tomorrow there will be no better in our country in this area. That's what we're doing today. And I'm sorry, like our group. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.55.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.56.0	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we see a motion on labour rights, tabled by the Group of the Republican Left, which on this occasion is not supported by its Junts partners. And given the content, I'm not surprised. As is often the case, this motion covers various matters, of which several are not related to the title of the motion – already mentioned by some previous rapporteur – and also mixes well-intentioned proposals, such as the desire for no public euro to finance relocation processes, with which, logically, we agree, with others that seem to us to be foolish; it is the case of the development of a policy of public participation in industrial transformation projects, which seems more appropriate to its communist partners, those of this month, of En Comú Puem, or the partners of last month, of the CUP. We believe that the spearhead of industrial transformation cannot be the public sector, but the private sector, which you are constantly demonising. The public sector must be dedicated to ensuring that the working and regulatory environment is the right one for the free functioning of the market. They also tell us about the repeal of labour reform, when we all know that it is a State competence. And, therefore, it should be there, in the Congress of Deputies, where its deputies are to present this proposal, which I believe, moreover... I believe would give us a good spectacle between the two governing partners of Spain. They want to hire more officials to ensure that all companies meet the same standards and ensure a fair labour market. Of course, we fully agree with the statement: all companies must comply with the law and compete on an equal footing. What is forgotten in Esquerra Republicana's proposal is that inequalities between companies and in workers' labour rights are, above all, with companies and workers from other countries, outside the European Union, companies located in third countries, some of them not far from Spain, where administrative, fiscal or environmental requirements are far from European ones. Nor does the inequalities between men and women that exist in these countries seem to matter. Similarly, the working conditions of workers in these countries, in many cases in semi-slavery conditions, seem to be of little importance to them. We believe that, with more staff recruited, they are recruited to strengthen customs services and that products from these countries are monitored, at least in accordance with the same rules as those produced in the European Union. It also talks about another pact, a pact for industry, but limited to Catalonia; a pact which they misjudge as national. It is true that Spain needs to rethink its industrial policy in order to meet the new challenges to which it is going to be subjected in the coming years, and that policy must include, of course, Catalonia, which is part of the national project. From the VOX Parliamentary Group we believe that creating quality jobs should be one of the priorities of public policy. And experience tells us that the industrial sector is capable of creating and equipping that job with stability and good wages. To this end the political action of the Government should be directed. But it is important to remember that employment, and above all industrial employment, is created by businesses and self-employed people, and not by politicians. And this should never be forgotten. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.57.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.58.0	Well, thank you, President. Some comments I will make have been made before the representative of the Socialist Party, because it is a young man..., in some points we will abstain, because they are lacking concrete or very generic or generalist, right? And we differ from the fact that we stay here in the denunciation around labor reform. You defend the agreement that is in short notice. We believe that as it is configured or as it appears, it is absolutely insufficient and that what we need to demand and what happens is that the Socialist Party and we can carry out its commitments and agreements, that is to repeal labour reform and, from here on, we build the mark that is needed. But it turns out that we find ourselves in a young man who makes a call to the Government of the State; a call to the Government of the State, because it repeals... Well, I don't know, you Republican Left, I think they have more opportunity than we do; but I see that they systematically waste the opportunities they have to make the Government of the Socialist Party and of Podegui carry out structural changes. It is, as a matter of fact, curious that the Socialist Party systematically and we can agree with different forces or between them that would repeal labour reform, because I think they have already granted it a few times, but never pass, right? And that what I have just been through is a labour reform that is conditioned by what Europe is asking for, but that, therefore, is not what it was said to be done and, therefore, does not address the need to guarantee the workers' and workers' rights in this country. And in the second point – he tied up with what he said, didn't he? – we are talking about the European Foundations Next Generation, and again it is..., for a few months they have disappeared a little bit from the map, now they are appearing again with systematic insistence these Foundations, as if falling from the cell, which, as I said before, are already linked to this labor reform that they are about to approve or agree between the different actors, because it is the one that demands the classical neoliberal doctrine, which is: because you ask these Foundations, you have to apply certain structural adjustments, in this case, through labor reform and pension reform, that we are seeing..., that has already begun, but that we are seeing in the own Months. But we're staying here. Let us not say that it is a guarantee that the European funds do not go to businesses that displace, this is of the utmost importance; but it is also a guarantee that the royal decree which approved at the February of this year the Congress of Deputies and which is in progress or pending that it is being forwarded as a bill of law to the Congress, and that systematically the terms are not extended and the terms are extended so that they cannot be drafted and, therefore, a royal decree which does not guarantee transparency or equal access to these European funds for their processing, etc. can be changed. Because it's making a few traps, in this sense, to say that we can ensure that these funds are not used to displace or that they vacate businesses that displace, but that there is a decree that what it does is to make it an absolutely opaque and unsecured distribution. At the same time, as we go further and any help is conditioned by public participation in these enterprises, which is conditioned by the fact that there is no displacement, that there is no closure or that there is no deterioration of working conditions, but that then..., that conditions are conditioned and that if it is produced, it is obliged to return these resources. Because, if not, we are systematically seeing what is happening in this country. That is why – as time was running out – I will leave it here – that at the first three points, for diffuse, little concrete, generic, little ambitious, we will abstain. Why, yes, we agree that it is necessary to repeal labour reform, we agree that it is necessary to condition European foundations and that it is necessary, right? , call for a job inspection, but we think it's a little bit of trouble. And in the fourth place, although we had some objections, we finally decided to vote on it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.59.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Matías Alonso has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.60.0	Yes, thank you, President. The Government of the Generalitat, although at these times it is not in the Chamber..., the Government of the Generalitat presents to us, in the mouth of the Parliamentary Group of Esquerra, a motion on labour rights, one of many shared competences that the Catalan Autonomous Government has, even though there are no legislative powers; however, in any case, there are administrative and available tools to ensure respect for the labour rights of Catalan workers. The first one who called for our attention to the Parliamentary Group of Citizens is that the Government of the Generality calls for the intermediation of the Parliament of Catalonia to negotiate with the Government of Spain – you say the Government of the State, but the State is all, we are inclusive – the repeal of the 2012 PP and 2010 PSOE labor reforms. How does it feel that Parliament is calling on the Government of Spain to repeal the work reforms of the PP and the PSOE? How does it feel that this demand is precisely made by Esquerra Republicana, what does it do when it is one of Pedro Sánchez's PSOE's preferred partners? Why don't they put it on the table in the General Courts, instead of saying so many barbarities – to be moderated in the qualification – as their usual spokespersons, the Esquerra and also, to say the least, the other cohabitation partner of the Government of the Generality, the Juntes per Catalunya, say? This point will be approved today, of course, above all because they have the view of Podemos, which is more of you than not of the PSOE, with whom they govern the Government of Spain – it is things of Spanish politics. The Catalan side that the Government of Spain shares with the PSOE is demarcating and pressing the Socialist Party, as they do with the same Government of Spain. But, well, this question stays on the sidelines of this young man, or maybe not. In any case, it's all gone. I say this first point will be approved today, but not with Ciutadans' vote. Nor shall we vote in favour of point 2. In this case, we will abstain. And we will do so, because it seems to us, from the outset, distressed to think that the Government of Spain may have the tempt not to properly control the Next Generation funds and to allow it to serve to finance processes of displacement and dismantling of the industrial fabric..., you say « of our country, our days » of Catalonia. Perhaps what they claim to be is to find out who to blame for not being able to keep the industrial fabric in Catalonia, surely touched by the lack of legal certainty that the autonomous governments are causing the last legislatures, especially after Convergence became ultra-mountain. Yes, the point calling for special attention to the Parliamentary Group of Citizens is point 3 of the motion, a point traded with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. In this type of discussion, the Socialist Group makes it clear that it covers with the wheels of mili that separatist nationalism has placed them in the abst at the length of time. Gentlemen of the PSC, who is the Government of Catalonia? Because the Catalan Autonomous Government is the Government of the Generality. They make a mockery of Catalonia's state of autonomy – perhaps they tend to have an accurate reading of Article 2. They can also read Law 13/2008, of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government. You may make this reference because you name yourself as the alternate government of Catalonia. Maybe we'd have enough to do what they don't do, which is opposition to this government that we've been painting since a decade ago. Its theme, which is logical that the government did not accept it, also urges the Government's Labour Inspectorate to plan and campaign with state effect, you say. At the Generality Labour Inspectorate, the effects that work there are state effects. The Generalitat is the Spanish State. We, all of us, are autonomous MPs of an autonomy that forms part of the Spanish State. We're Spanish, with capitals. You'd have to be clear, because they're ruling the government of Spain at this time. You'll be accepted by them because they'll be packed with wheels, or maybe even more, because you'll be able to roll them without a hint of blush. You have been and continue to be necessary collaborators in the construction of the national separatist imagination. Point 3 will be approved, of course, but the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group will vote 'no'. With regard to point 4, in which the Government of the Generality is going to itself do something directly to defend the rights of Catalan workers, the Parliamentary Group of Citizens will vote in favour of the apartment and we will abstain from the apartment. In the case of b, because we do not like to open the door to a systematized public participation policy. The public sector, in this case the Administration of the Generality, is to give support and accompany the industrial and entrepreneurial fabric of Catalonia. And public participation in industrial enterprises does not guarantee anything, it means that it is a majority participation, and then we would be talking about public enterprises, which, in Ciutadans's opinion, is neither the case nor the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.61.0	Then, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.62.0	Thank you very much, President. See, I'll be very short, because in the end we'll vote against the whole place. For you, the repeal of this labor reform is an obsession. They bring it here in different motions, in different debates – we have also seen it..., I have seen it personally at the Barcelona Assembly – ; it is something that they pursue in a very insistent way. And the reality, not to be fooled, is that the jobs that are created in Catalonia are not precisely for their great management – because it is absolutely non-existent and harmful – it is thanks to the fact that there is a job reform, which I think is quite necessary especially in times of crisis, isn't it? And, in the end, you propose to repeal a labor reform that I remind you that it is the one that has allowed ERTO, a figure that everyone is claiming is maintained, right? So welcome is this job reform to face a situation of a very strange crisis that we didn't expect anyone and that, unfortunately, is very hard. And in the end there is no better right to work than the right to work, and here it seems that this, therefore, is less than enough. In the end, I have to tell you that this obsession with you showing up in different motions and in different proposals doesn't have to be so much, and you have to be more mouthful than anything else, because when you're negotiating assumptions in Moncloa, so you don't put it as a condition, you put it as a condition other things – the Netflix – but you don't put it as a condition of repealing labor reform. If so harmful, it would probably be one of his first petitions. The topic of industrial transformation. I will not be there; we have commented on it before with the previous motion of the group of commons and, therefore, I repeat myself in which I defended there. I don't think the public sector should lead anything in this sense, but just accompany. And finally, to tell them that in the end it seems that you only defend union positions, and I want to remind them that the unions today are only dedicated to protecting those who already have work, that they are very good, that they already have work, but that, moreover, they create entry barriers to new incorporations into the world of work, right? And that's not something I should encourage any government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.63.0	Thank you. And finally has the word, in the name of Junts per Catalunya, the deputy Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.64.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Albert, I think you have a good-intentioned young man, a young man who's uncertain about the reps, who knows who the reps are, but there's an ideological argument – that I see that the Lord Account shares with you – that I don't know if he allows us to come to a good solution to the problems that you, I repeat, certainly pose. And I'll try to explain. The Catalan labour market, which you see constret, Mr Matías, for Spanish legislation – that we agree that we are Spaniards when we see the Catalan labour market, we do not – is a leader in Europe in aspects as grievous as the level of maturity; in aspects as grievous as the level of youth, also, or taxes of temporality – therefore, those who have made this labor reform the temporality did not fix it; this labor reform did not fix it –, or in schools. And with all this, businesses don't find enough personal for the jobs they can offer. Therefore, it is obvious that in the labour market there is no supply and demand. It seems, therefore, that there is to be a change; the so-called labour reform has to be changed. Ours to hear, too. Not only to recover administrative authority; the import of collective bargaining. This is a country of negotiation and labor reform has come to pass. Or reduce the temporality or reduce the levels of unemployment. Therefore, we are in this – in this we are. With respect to the Next Generation. The best thing that could be passed on to the Next Generation is that it is transferred to the government of proximity, to the government that knows the social reality, the industrial reality, the productive reality of Catalonia, the foundations. And I place a bet on you and all of you who are here in Parliament: Catalonia brings roughly the twenty_per_cent, the dinosaur and the tax percent, of Catalonia's production in terms of GDP. I am convinced that when we liquidate all Next Generation funds, the twenty per cent of the Next Generation fund reversal will not have come to Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] I'll take whatever they want. I am convinced that the State will not have transferred half of the Next Generation funds, as was compromised in the negotiation of the assumptions of the past year. I propose that we act together in Madrid, you and us. And what I gave to Mrs. Reguant – I suppose Mrs. Reguant also – for the reform of labour legislation. Because they're coming, because they're transferring the Next Generation funds. Certainly, Mr Gallego, you are not here: you have done parliamentary archaeology to look for what you voted Union to labor reform. But two years ago – two years ago – they're in the government and they haven't reformed anything, huh? [[Greetings.]] They haven't even counter-reformed! That's right, they've been investigating. We are absolutely in agreement with the industrial pact. We have to face the fourth revolution as we have faced all the revolutions in Catalonia: leading it. I'd just miss it. Now, we cannot agree that the Generalitat should be the spearhead in the industrial transformation with public participation in enterprises. The Generalitat does not have the mission to participate in companies. The generality has to set the conditions for companies to be able to carry out their activities. It has to do, it has to lay the foundations so that we can have the Catalonia of yes, which made Congresswoman Freixa in the past plenary. From yes to activity, from yes to prosperity, from yes to the productive economy, from yes to Catalonia open to the world, from yes to quality occupation, to Catalonia of opportunities, to Catalonia of formation... Yes to a better Catalonia. It has to simplify the procedures. When a company starts the process of establishing a business establishment, it needs to know what standards will be applied to it. An administration procedure cannot be built up. Standards must be clear and easy. They need to know if it's pot or if it's not. They can't swim between two needles. We need to organize a format system that allows applications for job offers and demands to be made, that increases productivity, that increases wages. Catalonia must have a higher interprofessional minimum wage than the Spanish State, because the level of wealth is higher here, the level of living is higher here. So the workers have to charge more. There has to be infrastructure because logistics is not a hazard to business development. And that's what the Administration has to do. You don't have to participate in the stock exchange. In short, what would heat Catalonia is a state that you played in favor of, the state that would have an independent Catalonia, because Catalonia would be what it has always been: the engine of the Spanish economy and the engine of the world economy. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.65.0	Finally, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.66.0	Well, I don't know if to start at the end... but go, we'll go by order. Thank you, President. For Deputy Gilbert, very quick, huh? The last thought, which is his fourth thought, which makes reference to the one he gave, that there was no compromise either... Home, his thought clearly gave, left clearly a stain that the work had not been done well because... there was no good intention, is there? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Well, it's not just about good intentions. In the very premise there will be increments in training, there will be increments in industrial policy, there will be a series of increments that will be consolidated and that the national pact for industry will also have to give us these tools to also use presuppositionally, to provide presuppositionally the industrial development to our country. So, I'm sure we'll end up agreeing. With regard to other opinions that have been raised. Well, I'm also surprised by the parliamentary ignorance of some MP who came out in this faristol. He says: "This time Junts does not accompany them in the youth. Clearly, it's a motion after a Republican Left question. Therefore, together here you do not have to accompany absolutely anything because it is a Republican Left motion, because it is a motion subsequent to the Republican Left question. Learn the Parliamentarians' Handbook, which I know is a lot of balls in this. With regard to the question of labour reforms, we have on repeated occasions, in the Congress of Deputies, put forward proposals not to affect labour reform. And it is more, there is a proposal, a proposal of law that we also want to present in this Parliament, that we are convinced that with another parliamentary group we will help to make it possible and that, therefore, we will also bring it here to transfer it to the Congress of Deputies. Because, in effect, in this Parliament we cannot directly urge the Government of the State, the Congress must do so. This is why, in this way, we use formulas such as cry, use formulas such as urge the Government to urge the Government of the State, because we cannot directly urge the Government of the State. But they do affect these decisions directly in Catalonia. And for the company Roquer. Sometimes..., always said « Union, but that was Convergence and Union. You're convergence and union heretics. And I'd like to know one day which is – which is – his proposal for a labour law, which is his proposal for a labour law, because if it's any counsel's defense, as if it's Gloso's, let's get settled. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.67.0	After the debate, I am sure that this young man's vote will be taken this morning, once the next item on the agenda, the twenty-first item on the agenda, which is the next item on the government's inquiry into the deindustrialisation of Catalonia. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the deindustrialisation of Catalonia]] [[302-00075/13]] It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX, and has the word, to make the presentation, the deputy Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.68.0	Good morning. For us, the industrialization of Catalonia is also a real political priority. The prosperity, modernization and well-being of the Catalans has become a major industrial hub. Over the last few years, in Spain and Catalonia, hundreds of companies have been moving, going to other parts of the world, to third countries, in search of an ephemeral profitability that has weakened us in a very worrying way. Industrial bleeding in Catalonia does not stop. Fourteen_ thousand jobs lost this year in the industrial field. Some examples have been named here throughout the morning: the closure of Nissan, without alternatives for a regrettable management of the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain, Bosch, Saint Cobain, are some of the examples of the devastation of the manufacturing sector. And also Maule; workers who came here yesterday at the gates of Parliament, to whom VOX strongly supports, even if their unions do not want to meet with us. This phenomenon is not new, that of the deindustrialization of Catalonia. There has been no industrial policy. Catalonia, from the year 99 to the year 2019, according to a report by Ponce, has lost twelve 12,248 companies of this type, with an associated job loss of 150,000 workers. That is why we have tabled this motion. We have put forward nineteen measures to be implemented in order to try to reverse this issue, which I believe we are all concerned about. It is obvious that many more initiatives can be put forward, but here the most outstanding ones..., well, we have put these nineteen, seemed to us to be highlighted and relevant to raise in the text of the motion. Given the shortage of time, I will try to summarize the seven blocks. On the one hand, we call for political stability and legal certainty. Therefore, we demand that separatists stop playing to create imaginary republics that only generate instability, which scares companies and potential domestic and international investors. It appears in all business surveys in this regard. Please stop being silly about these issues. They all say it, absolutely all the companies in Catalonia. Secondly, we ask for less bureaucracy, less statism, a simpler administrative framework. We bet on national market unity, a more agile justice, a more competitive fiscal framework. We have already commented, eighteen own taxes on strategic sectors of Catalonia are not helping to develop and enhance industry in Catalonia. We sent a bad message to the Catalan industry saying to him: "Well, come on, invest here in Catalonia, that we are going to fry you at your own taxes. Sounds like a contradiction in your terms, doesn't it? I believe that we must reduce this ecological hysteria which is dramatically increasing the price of energy, which is absolutely crucial in the development of an industrial enterprise. We must work to defend the Catalan industry from unfair competition, from inequality in conditions of those working in China or Morocco. We must bet on internationalisation, modernisation, infrastructures that add value to companies by new technologies, digitisation, industrial polygons, some of which are very poorly connected, not only from the point of view of infrastructure, but also from the point of view of connectivity, digitisation, and from the point of view of energy. There are many polygons so we need to improve. We must also work within the framework..., to try to improve the conditions of our workers; to marry labour supply and demand. There is an excess of underqualification and overqualification. Bet on the double FP. Also bet on the languages. It is one of the issues that all companies – and this is what they have not heard in the morning – are calling for even more improvement in Catalonia on this issue. Improve technology transfer between the university and the company itself. Bet on the second chance, to see if measures can be implemented to help those companies that break by circumstances, for example, like those of the covid, to lift the blind again. Comply with the criteria of the law of lateness. Controls for Next Generation funds. Therefore, as you can see, the proposals put forward by the Parliamentary Group of VOX, glues..., are realistic proposals of common sense, glued to industrial polygon, and I hope that, for one day, their hatred, their bitterness and their sectarian democratic cord do not prevent them from voting in favour of some of them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.69.0	To defend the proposed statements, has the word, on behalf of the Ciutadans Group, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.70.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a motion that undoubtedly has the mark of the house. A motion by VOX that aims, I suppose, to provide solutions to the process of deindustrialization that is suffering Catalonia, and therefore Catalan workers in the industrial sector and their families. And I also suppose that this motion seeks that the Parliament of Catalonia insists on each and every one of the questions that it raises to the Government of the Generalitat, I suppose. I say this because I don't know what the purpose of VOX's motions is often lacking in this precision when referring to the government that presides over Mr Aragonès, i.e. the Government of the Generalitat, or the Generality, if they like it more so; the name doesn't change the thing, and the thing is that it is the Government of the Catalan Autonomous Community. Assuming that this is the case, which refers to the Government of the Generalitat, or the Government of the Generality, I must tell you that at the first point you are mistaken in the verb. Pretending that the government that presides over Mr Aragonès, that the current government of Catalan autonomy, reaffirms its political commitment to the unity of Spain, to political stability, to compliance with the law, to our constitutional framework and to the parliamentary monarchy, even as a basis for generating the certainty that our companies and investors need – I understand that they refer to companies and investors simply, not just their companies and investors – is more than utopian. Hear, then, from the start, we will vote in favour of this first point, on the assumption that, when it comes to companies and investors, it concerns all companies and all investors. But I tell you that the Government of the Generalitat would not even say anything in the sense that you are proposing, even if this point of the motion was adopted. To give the case – which you and I know is not going to give – the government of Mr Aragonès, as they have always been doing all the governments that have preceded him, including the two tripartites headed by the PSC, would be very careful to commit themselves to the unity of Spain and to the compliance of legality, or to our constitutional framework, and much less to the parliamentary monarchy. You know, they're all more republican and frantic. The second point, in a way, also calls for the moon. If there is one thing that is not willing to do in any way, the current autonomous government is to rationalize the administration as little as possible. The Autonomous Administration is clearly oversized, and from the point of view of information and communication technologies – what you propose as digitisation – the Generalitat is truly chaotic. Thus, they budget and spend what they spend on CTTI, a lot of public money that is wasted without improved management and reduced bureaucracy. Come on, they're also going to say no, as – let's not be fooled, Mr Gallego – they're going to say no to the whole motion. You already know that you can only expect the vote in favour of some of the proposals by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group and the Joint Group. Finally, you raise a rosary of questions, more or less precise, of greater or lesser interest, to try to reverse the progressive deindustrialization of Catalonia, to which most of which we will show our support, but the motion will not prosper in any of its points. I also tell you that some of the points you raise, in addition to being stained by the original sin of proceeding from the Parliamentary VOX Group, have an excess of ideological burden that makes it difficult to support them. Come on, we're not gonna support them. You probably feel very comfortable with the fact that even the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, which has led the opposition in this Parliament during the last two legislatures, and that, given what has been seen in the plenary and in the committees that have been held to date during this legislature, continues to lead the true opposition, even ahead of the parliamentary group which is self-proclaimed'Alternative government and which, at most, is the government's close friend, if I allow myself to use the indeterminate appeal coined just a year ago by the then minister and now head of the opposition... – what was it like? , « no opposition or « no opposition? –, you probably feel more comfortable, I told you, with the fact that we also vote no to some of your ideological outbursts that fit into populist negationism, into your reductionist vision of the social and political reality of Spain, and – we have to say – into your xenophobia in the vein, which is sometimes impossible for you to mask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.71.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.72.0	Thank you, President. You've asked me, my friend Matías... do you know why we've organized ourselves with the "alternative government," and it's okay to remember me every two for three? Precisely so as not to break up with you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, in order not to end up like you and make an alternative, explain an alternative with positive proposals in those themes that you can bring, and stop dividing society. We were, we were presented with a proposal – I will also try to explain and reason our arguments – about how we end up with industrial destruction. Mr Gallego, who is a capable Member, presents some proposals that are reasonable, but that make these facts and parables of true myths or proposals that are going to end up building a full account of lies, misinformation and, sometimes, disqualifications. Not especially today, but many times. You don't want us to forget your program, your main proposals and your usual arguments in this case, because I think we're all in a context and we all need to position ourselves. I've always thought politics is pedagogy or misinformation – pedagogy or misinformation. And, therefore, each one has to try to lie on the ground of pedagogy – to explain, to try to cohesively, to try to contribute, to try to look to the future – or to misinformation. And you are, in our opinion, in the second place, disinforming. As I said, some of the proposals are correct, but obviously, when they start talking about bars, "socialists and all these things, I think they deserve it. In the background, you end up playing what they say you fight. They say they want to talk about the industry, but then they end up making arguments or reports that they have nothing to do with the industry. And the crux of the matter, which is what we should all value here, in respect of the more than 200,000 voters who voted for you – out of respect, I say – is it worth their trust? They have voted; surely they have. And here's probably my fault, we'll have to take all the pleas, we'll have why so many people voted for them, with the arguments they sometimes bring here. And the question is whether the confidence of Nissan's workers and workers should be with you; of Mahle... the health workers, the workers and the workers of education, the people who have difficulty accessing housing, the people who do not have work..., with these people would be better? You're obviously not. The functional economy, with you, talking about deindustrialisation and the first point is to make a declaration for the unity of Spain? But... excuse me? The first point. This? This? Is that it? Therefore, you will never build a majority of government in Catalonia, because you have settled to the extreme. And it will only be possible to form a majority in Catalonia on the line of an article that comes out today, which says the glue of Catalonia. This is what we need: politicians and policies that make glue, to try to sew, to try to open a way that is sufficiently wide so that everyone is well rejected. This is what we have to do. So, in a country of extremes, maybe we start working with the grays. And you're not an expert at working with grey people, exactly; on the contrary. And to me especially when I feel disqualifications, lack of respect more or less covert, company and company hemicle deputies, as well as companies and companies in Catalonia. That's how we understand that things have to be done. You say that TV3 tanker – it's obvious that they won't do it –, they say that this Parliament – it's obvious that they won't do it – and so many lies. And then they come here and tell us that industrial destruction will stop with you. For us... obviously, we are clear that you will not, that you can block the change options of this country precisely because you are promising easy things to very complex problems. In general, as I assume they may have deduced from my intervention, we will vote no to the motion. So, obviously, it's a political vote, without going into the details, that we might be more or less in agreement with, but their general views – that we are used to – do not share them in absolute terms. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.73.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word the deputy Mrs Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.74.0	Well, thank you, President. In the face of proposals that dispel populist and neoliberal neocon and disperse with the supposed defence of the workers, before proposals that they do is to deny the right to exist of a very large number of people, we will vote against them. And before these proposals, we have also decided that we will not use the remaining four minutes and a half. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.75.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.76.0	Thank you very much, President. After more than forty years of industrial dismantling in our country and surely many countries in Europe – not all of them, but many of them – Europe and Catalonia – many regions of Europe – raise the question of how a country is reindustrialised. Because it is obvious that the strategy of displacement, of losing industrial fabric and of becoming an economy of services and tourism and of the third sector has – and it is clear that this crisis has accentuated it – its limitations at the time of guaranteeing both the national import of the states to Europe as well as the welfare and rehabilitation of the European economies. And, therefore, it is a question that many European countries are asking: how do we today have a strategy of reindustrialisation because we have more industry than we have today? And about this discussion there are many mantras accumulating from the neoliberal offensive of the past decades, which are the fundamental thing we want to discuss today. There is a mantra that is: if we lower wages, if we lower taxes on industries and deregulate the country's economy, we attract industry. And the question is, why haven't we been in the industry for the last two or fifteen years, what exactly have we done? We have devalued wages, we have spread taxes and we have deregulated our country's economy. Why haven't we recovered the industry? Moreover, why has the destruction of industry accelerated to the economies of southern Europe which Ishi imposed on this economic route? And the answer is: because no country in Europe or the world was industrialised by lowering wages, lowering taxes and deregulation of the economy. On the contrary, this has been precisely the tool to facilitate the business relocations that we have experienced these last few years. How have all the countries of the world been industrialized, from the early industrial revolution to the Chinese and Southeast Asian states to the last decades? It is precisely from the intervention of states in the economy, from the creation of national economies, national industries and from the development of industry; not from the deregulation of the state and from the disappearance of states in the economy. Actually, there's a mantra, isn't there? , to Spanish politics, or a well-remembered phrase, which is what Solchaga said, that the best industrial policy is that which is not tea. And this is the best industrial policy, when it aspires not to have industry. When it aspires to have industry, industrial policy – and therefore state intervention – is absolutely necessary. And that's what we disagree with, not just his political formation, but the obvious contradictions that exist in his motion between claiming the industrialization of the country and claiming that the State is withdrawn from the economy and that the State is dismantled. Why, of course, if taxation is a limit to the ability to attract industry to Catalonia, as you said in your intervention and tell the young man, why Germany, that it has a much greater tax pressure on industry than Spain has and that Catalonia has, it does not only have more industry than we have, but has recovered industry in the last decades? Why do Nordic countries, which have a major fiscal pressure on their productive sectors, have more industry than southern countries? And why did we, who have years ago imposed fiscal austerity here, do nothing more than speed up the destruction of the economy? Because the economy doesn't work that way. And it obviously doesn't work that way, because it's not the same as aspiring to be a tax haven that attracts back and predatory economy than being an industrial country that attracts productive economy and builds from its productively and socially strong state base, as were the social democracies of the 20th century. And as has been the case, these processes of industrialization and re-industrialization in the world? A lot of ways, huh? But if we try to schematicize them, there would surely be three clearer stakes, which are usually combined: the creation of national industry– and, therefore, the participation of the State in the development of its own industry–, the protection of markets– and, therefore, the policy of substitution of imports, which was, for example, the key to the United States War of Secession between the South and the North, which was protectionist, and, therefore, industrial– and planning – and not only to ensure space for industry, but also to attract direct foreign investment. And I believe that here, in this third area – and I'm finished with this – we have the great tool of a country that is the national pact for industry, and we have the capacity to plan for productive industrial investment for our country and to ensure the industrial transformations that we need as a country in industry already exists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.77.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.78.0	Thank you very much, President. I was surprised at a little, the debate, because I see some political complexes that, unfortunately, are not held in other formations that also show a certain degree of governing radicality, right? And it's hard for me, because at the end of the day it's a young man – it seems to me – perfectly reasonable and acceptable. We will support practically all points of the motion except two – which we are already asking for a separate vote – in which, therefore, we will abstain because we have not just shared the content in its totality. But in the end, it's a young man who's very much on the line of my pre-emptive intervention to the commons' motion on the industrial pact, isn't it? It's a young man who I think thinks of giving support and facilitating industry activity by removing barriers. I think he's referring to an important issue, which is the relocation of businesses. We give little importance to this from the positions of government, that I think it's who really should care about this and reverse this situation. It's worrying, and we have to fight this relocation of businesses, and nothing has happened. I think there's another important point, talking about the market unit. So out complex with this, of course, market unit. It is a disarray, that the autonomous communities are being barred by enterprises and labour in the form of absurd local regulations that only cause confusion or that may lead, precisely, to the displacement of these enterprises, right? Also one last point, not to repeat what I said in the other intervention. I don't think we should go back to the model we were 30 or 40 years ago, do we? , remanufacturing what we did, owning the same industry. I think we're in a much more globalized world, despite the fact that it's likely to go in a different direction here in Catalonia, and we need to focus and invest in more value-added activities. Specialization I think is a good idea for the industrial sector; I want to help it, because this allows us to add added value to the global market and be complementary, therefore, to other industries that are located outside our borders of Spain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.79.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Junts Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Joan Canadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.80.0	Thank you, President. Mr Gallego, you say that Catalonia is de-industrializing, and to solve it you present a motion that is a hundred_per_cent Spanish nationalist discourse: unity of Spain, unity of the market, compliment of the constitutional mark... Can you tell us what book of economic theory they have after that? Listen to me, displacement isn't at all, but especially in the most industrialised regions. Catalonia has practically the twenty-five percent of the industrial fish of Spain; therefore, it is logical that there is more here. Miri, the industry in Catalonia did not start in the 19th century, as his company Garriga told us at the inquiry. Let's make a little history. Enter, for example, the website of the Consul of the United States in Barcelona, and you will see that it was created the year 1797, with the mission to promote trade between the young North American democracy and the future industrial region of Catalonia, recognized already for its textile sector – century XVIII. The Catalans had then invented the most productive spinning machine of the market – more than the angles, and so on – and the North American economy was heavily dependent on the elbow industry. Let's go to the 16th and 17th centuries. Llegeixin the historian García Espuche, his book A decisive century. Barcelona and Catalonia, 1550-1640, and you will see how in this period you describe up to eighty industrial villas throughout the country, from Ceret and Perpinyà, then Catalonia – still is, eh? , but... – to the global Catalonia, to the Rossello, to the Reus or Valls, to Tarragona ; Tarrega or Cervera, to Lleida ; Vic, Ripoll, Camprodon, to the Interior Girona, or the villas of Vallesos, of Bages, of Anoia and of Central Catalonia. An anecdote: Barcelona's tanners in 1565 complained that they had to pay for the oranges of the leathers that came from America when, by right dynamically, 1479, they didn't touch them – this from the splint goes all the way. It is clear in this book, moreover, that in the 16th century it is produced from all over the country. Voltaire said this a few seconds later: "Caltaunya can dispense with the whole world, but her veins cannot dispense with it. If Catalonia is industrial today, it is because more than five seconds ago that it is, thanks to family businesses that have passed on generation to generation and learning that they have done their own business after the office, and above all – working very hard. We will continue to feel industrial, but not with a 965-euro minimum wage industry to compete with Poland or Hungary. And this is the Spanish model, and perhaps from other groups of this chamber, but from Junts to Catalunya we bet for Catalonia of yes: yes to the transformation of the industry to wages, as said the company Roquer, European, around 1,400_euros. And that means investing in research and development, it means betting on the new technologies. And that's why we have a committed government, from the departments of Universities and Digital Policies, which has been working for more than three years to make this fourth revolution, which is that of the knowledge society. The question we need to ask ourselves is: what has the State done to help Catalonia become more industrial? This week we have an example, which you haven't done. Let's talk about Nissan. Why, having €140,000_million in funds Next Generation – of which Catalonia should not be touched, for the economic pes, would want 28,000_million–, could not allocate enough resources because the Chinese Great Wall Motors is running from Nissan to the Free Zone? Now there are 23,000 employees of this company who see their future ruined. Are there any other projects so important that they affect 23,000 families, as if they could not do everything possible to ensure an investment like this? If the Next Generation funds from Catalonia, from the Generality of Catalonia, as President Torra asked last year, do they think we would have done no more to save this situation? Of course, Esquerra agreed to the yes on the later assumption of changing the co-governance of the funds. We'll see what happens to this. The record that Zapatero in 2006 invested 250_million euros to save Renault to Valladolid, and, in change, declined to make the investments that Nissan required to make a new plant to Ódena, with 400_million inversion. Nissan asked to extend Martorell's freight train to Ódena and the third lane of the A-2. He did not make these investments, and that was at the end of Nissan in Catalonia. A new and modern plant would have meant competitiveness that did not have installations like the current ones. Let us be clear: we have a state against, and now, with the Next Generation funds, it will decide which industrial communities to industrialize. And we are convinced that Catalonia will be harmed. And when we get there, it'll be late. We're on the road to being if we really want to reindustrialize, and the Next Generation fund management is key. That's why we can't stop until we become an independent state, because independence also went from this, we have to have resources to reindustrialize the country with an economic model of the future and generate quality jobs for everyone, independent and non-independent. It is the State that is beginning to make us independent and urgently. Members of the Left and the CUP: it is at our hands. It's up to us. Don't wait any longer, please. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.81.0	And finally, in this turn to fix position, has the word, on behalf of the Republican Left Group, the deputy Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.82.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Answering them to you, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, involves a many times exercise of self-control that is very motivating and that serves us many times to get better. We're gonna set up a little pedagogic today. I'll try to make the effort, huh? I could go without saying, as Mrs Eulàlia did very well, but I will try to do a little..., I will try to explain myself, and I will try..., to see if they understand a little bit of the concepts and what they like so much to you, that they are the data. I think it's gonna be pretty hard, huh? And it will be hard enough to try to convince those who are not able to hear realities as the prospect of generating or hearing realities as that of climate change..., I think it will cost us a little – it will cost us a little – but we will try to do so. Come on, let's get started. We'll try to explain what the VAB is. Industrial VAB increased continuously between 2014 and 2019. Previously the industry did not lose weight for a reduction of its VAB, but because the rest of the economy grew stronger. By the way, if they don't know what the VAB is..., that's what it means to add gross value. By the way, I'm telling you, 'cause it's data you have to try to hear and you have to try to assimilate, huh? To hear what's going on and how they do and how they write their motions. The trend of a smaller part of the industry was not particular to Catalonia; it was also a trend in Spain and the euro area. In 2020, the Catalan industry fell more moderately than the state economy and its share was higher since 2016. The 2021 is evolving at annual taxes better at the conjunction of the economy. The pes de la industria catalana, ladies and gentlemen, is superior to many countries of the euro area – countries like France, Netherlands, Sweden – and also, despite what you can explain to us, far superior to that of Spain. I repeat: the pes of the Catalan industry is superior to that of the Spanish industry. Catalonia is an industrial country. Catalonia has remained so before the 19th century – as Mr. Canadell has explained to us – during the 20th century and will continue to be so during the 21st century. You use a loss of the relation, and it is important to note what the relationship means to give to hear a situation of deindustrialization but that in reality it is quite different. They also take into account the increase in prices of raw materials and the lack of products and materials, which are slowing the recovery in the second quarter. Look, I'm gonna try to explain three factors that try to unravel them a little bit all that's their demagogic. The outsourcing process affects all developed economies, and that is what they need to hear. The business displacement we experience is experienced by all industrialized countries. And it's worth remembering what your Borbo was doing when he was calling up companies to set you up here and asking them if you'd like me to try to leave, by the way. [[Greetings.]] Our future goes through the reindustrialization and transformation of the product model. It is working with economic agents, with social agents, in the elaboration of the new national pact for industry. It will be a useful tool for boosting development and improving employment, working conditions, and ensuring infrastructure in industrial terms. The week that we approve, with the assumptions..., we increase by thirty_per_cent the shares of Enterprise and Work – increase by thirty_per_per_cent the shares of Enterprise and Work –, with 125_million euros for reindustrialisation and competitiveness. The work, ladies and gentlemen, is being done. And I can quote many, many actions. I will mention three: the office for the transformation of the mobility and automotive industry; the code of good practices to improve the reindustrialisation processes; and the capitalization of industrial and strategic investment funds. And it is that recovery and productive transformation are the ultimate goal of our political action. It is the sector that generates a more stable and better quality occupation, and, moreover, it has to play a decisive role in climate change. Posin' hoal cap: play a decisive role in the climate emergency. Let's see if they understand this once in a while, about the climate emergency. And let us not forget that the Catalan industry is also facing the lack of investment in infrastructure by part of the State. As I said, I tried to be pedagogical, because I thought they would make an effort to hear it, but sometimes I know they wouldn't. And they won't do it because in the background this young man is not because you lack understanding. His catastrophic speech about the entire Catalan economy, well thought out, is not the cause of his ignorance; it is the cause – and I finish, President – of his willingness to spread lies and falsehoods. It is, gentlemen, in short, bad faith. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.83.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, to pronounce on all the papers, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.84.0	Yes, thank you. With reference to the speeches made by the Members who have spoken before me, Mr Canadell's speech and the excellent speech by the honourable Member who has just spoken, I shall not, at last, speak. It's my custom not to listen to them for half a day having whole days. This, on the one hand. Secondly, in reference to Citizens, who have commented the deputy Matías..., the truth, frankly, I have not understood much his intervention, if I may. It was a gallimacy, Mr. Matias. [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't understand anything – I don't understand anything. And I suppose, at last, that of bringing into this debate the subject of xenophobia into the vein... I ask you, is it a mantra? Do they always say that? Do they say that when they have nothing to say? When resources are lacking to talk about industry, do they take this out? I mean, I think I haven't talked about any of that, but, well, you guys, to your book. They seem to want us to say things like that when we talked about industry – nineteen points about industry. And I'm done. The spokesman for the PSC says that I have referred to chiringuitos and «socialists. Look, I didn't say any of that. I think my tone has been absolutely correct. In any case, I'm glad he's got it so internalized, and I won't be the one to tell him no. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.85.0	All right. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism policies (continuation)]] [[302-00068/13]] So, the debate is over, so I'm guessing we're going to proceed, at this point, to the vote on items 18 to 21 of the order of the day, which correspond to the motions for substance this morning. [[Pause.]] We will begin by voting on the motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism policies. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was not approved, with 45 votes in favour, 86 votes against. We vote, then, point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved, with 106 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting now point number 3, with all the letters taken from the letter, and so are points 4 and 10. Points 3, 4 and 10, except for letter i. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 123 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We're voting point three now, and that's it. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 118 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point six now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 109 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point six now, letters b and c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point eight now, his cap and his letter to. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 98 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 81 votes in favour, 17 votes against, 33 abstentions and one person who did not vote. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved, with 114 votes in favour and 18 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the challenges to modernising and transforming industry (continuation)]] [[302-00071/13]] Let's now vote on paragraph 19, the motion following the Government's inquiry into the challenges to modernization and the transformation of industry. We begin by voting point number 1, in its encapsulation, and apart 2 and 4. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 78 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 42 abstentions. We're voting point number one now in wards one and three. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 87 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved, with 78 votes in favour, 21 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 78 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 45 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 76 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 47 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5 has been approved, with 90 votes in favour and 42 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has received 18 votes in favour, 76 against and 38 abstentions. We're voting point 6.b now. The vote begins. Point number 6.b [[remorse of the voice]] has been approved, with 112 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved, with 109 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 18 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8 was approved, with 124 votes in favour and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved, with 82 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 38 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10 has been approved, with 123 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. Oh, these wallets, which look like they're wearing her from practice and making the head dance... (Laughter.) We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved, with 90 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. Point 12 was approved, with 99 votes in favour and 33 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. ( Funnels and laughs.) The President Point 13 was not approved, with 50 votes in favour, 77 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point number 14 now. Votes begin. The 14_point was approved, with 106 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was approved, with 106 votes in favour, 16 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting now point number 16, taken from apartment number one. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 90 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 33 abstentions. We are voting now on point 16.1. The vote begins. Point 16.1 was approved, with 88 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting now for the 16-a point. The vote begins. Point 16 bis was approved, with 99 votes in favour and 33 abstentions. Let's vote on point 17.1. The vote begins. Point 17.1 was approved, with 94 votes in favour, 33 votes against and 5 abstentions. We now vote on point 17, in its encapsulation, and 17.2. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 99 votes in favour and 33 votes against. We're voting on point 17.3. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 91 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point 18 now. The vote begins. Point 18 was approved, with 132 votes in favour. We're voting point number 19. The vote begins. Point 19 was approved, with 120 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point 20 now. The vote begins. Point 20 was not approved, with 46 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 12 abstentions. We're voting point number 21. The vote begins. Point 21 was approved, with 58 votes in favour, 65 votes against and 9 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into labour rights (continuation)]] [[302-00074/13]] We proceed to vote on item 20 of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on labour rights. Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 73 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 42 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved, with 115 votes in favour and 17 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3 has been approved, with 106 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number four now, letters to and b. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 115 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 5 abstentions. We're voting point four now with letter c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 12 votes against. And now we vote on the rest of the young lady's text, which is her encapsulation. The vote begins. The encapsulation was approved, with 111 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 9 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the deindustrialisation of Catalonia (continuation)]] [[302-00075/13]] And, finally, we vote on the twenty-first item on the agenda, the motion following the question to the Government about the deindustrialisation of Catalonia. We shall vote, first of all, on points 7 and 13. The vote begins. These points were not approved, with 9 votes in favour, 118 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. This point was not approved, with 12 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 4 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The motion was not approved, with 16 votes in favour and 115 votes against. [[Specific debate on mental salvation]] [[255-00005/13]] Let us move on to the debate on the presentation and positioning of the subsequent motions for resolutions to the specific debate on mental health presented by the parliamentary groups. For the defence of these motions for resolutions and the position on the rest of the proposals, we will follow the order of submission to the register, as set out in Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure. Remember that the speaking time will be a maximum of two minutes per parliamentary group. In the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Congresswoman Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.86.0	What, there's all of us? [[Pause.]] Thank you. Okay. We have already said at the beginning of this debate that Ciutadans, who was the first group to seriously worry about mental health in this chamber, as shown by Motion 122 of the last legislature, will honour his trajectory by giving his hand to the Government and to all groups who want to work seriously for this important objective. For our part, we have tabled three much more compact motions for resolutions and going far more to the point than other groups, which have us used to, well, to a lot of toast to the sun and to little fulfilment of their commitments. I hope this time we have arrived or are arriving or will reach the longing point of inflection and consensus. Our first goal: to end the historical inadequacies of our mental health model, which was already outdated and obsolete before the covid, and with greater reason now that the mental pandemic follows and accompanies physics. Specifically – they can read it in the PR, but I highlight the highlights – we are very concerned about closing the digital gap in mental health services with older and more vulnerable people and preventing poor digitization of these services from opening up an even bigger gap. It's not about making jokes or comparing, let's say, the La Meva Salut app with the Camp Nou lawn that used to provide the wife of a former president of the Generalitat; it's about things working and not digitizing too fast and bad, because if we're leaving people on the way, then it's no use at all. Another thing that worries us: to recognize not only mouthpieces, but with action plans and resources, the role of family members in the care and recovery of people affected by mental health problems. We want more preventive, more community-based, more accessible mental health services for all and with a lot more territorial equity, which is a long way off – which is a long way off. We want to review and update the service portfolio, incorporating users and their families in decision-making and evaluation of results. We must end mechanical containment whenever possible; remember the shocking testimony in this sense by Mercè Torrentalle. We want action plans in the workplace, at school, in all possible areas; we want to take the fight against stigma very seriously, which is the front line of discrimination, exclusion and invisible suffering that too often ends in avoidable suicides. We want suicide prevention to have its own action plan, with its own resources – as much as possible – but at the same time to irrigate action in all other departments and areas, paying special attention to cases of school harassment, including cyberbullying and sexual abuse. Above all, we want transparency, transparency, transparency – I say it three times – on the resources of the system and on the results. You can't spend years without accountability. Whether on the balance of results or on the transparency web, whatever it is, but we have to evaluate systematically and periodically, we have to be accountable. I'll tell you a secret. You see, we've accepted a joint group statement that, with confidence, I wouldn't have accepted, huh? I wouldn't have accepted it, but like Ciutadans is a very democratic group and I've been debating everything, my companions have convinced me to accept it, saying: "Grau, trust, trust. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, because I say... « – No, it is they have asked that in accounts to publish the result to the balance of results, therefore, that we do it to the web of transparency. - I'm not growing up, I'm not going to do it. - Yes, she does, yes. You trust, you trust. And in any case, if they committed themselves, then... well, we made them this vote of confidence, which, I mean, I wouldn't have done, but go. Yeah, it's nicer to trust than to mistrust. And, well, as you know, I have a certain weakness for the counselor Dr. Argimon, so, well, let's do it like that, all right. [[Rialles.]] As for... well, obviously, we will vote yes, in favour of all that they have presented, because it seems difficult to overcome. In order to put forward a little of our intentions to vote on the rest of the proposals, well, in the proposals that have been jointly tabled by Junts per Cat. And Republican Left, I already told them we'd abstain from the first PR, because there's a point that we don't like people, or, better said, that we've put a little bit of top pellets on us. Specifically, what you say you want to know about the emotional state of the student through a student-directed interview. Oh, my God. If we could leave the creatures alone, we wouldn't... ; I seem to be making masses of people ask and ask the school. That said, the rest of PRs will vote for them, I insist, with this good-willed and full-fledged spirit of cooperation on issues that are still in the service of the people. You have submitted a joint PR of Junts for Cat. , Esquerra, PSC, CUP and Catalunya in Comú We may, well, man, hurt our feelings, that we don't want to. I suppose you've wanted to visualize what you call the anti-fessist front; in this case, well, maybe it's a rather frivolous, rather than anti-fessist front. In any case, also, except that they didn't want us to, also that they promote a national pact for mental salvation... We are already, or still, I mean..., nor is it a pact, because it's not open to everyone, nor is it a national, because..., it already tastes hard, but the birth, gentlemen, is what it is. On the other hand, well, everything that the Communal Group has presented can..., in principle we will vote that yes, seems very well done to us. The CUP..., well, we won't vote for them the first PR, because, well, yes, you're wrong to go wrong with the public one-hundred-per-cent network, but we, you know, are for a model of concerted sanitation, also in mental health. And so we simply won't vote for them. On the subject of basic measures, make a PR your approach to mental salvation in young people. Well, at point 2 we seem to have done a little bit of a nude with no idea what, when they say they attribute the mental fragility of our young people to political disappointments; I don't know, maybe they refer to... well, let it be. And they're talking about the use of the Aldarul partyer. Look, like this is already coming that he's a piece of shit, we're gonna abstain. We will also abstain in his third PR, on the working conditions of the workers of the mental health service, which, while full of good intention, we also think that good intentions in hell are not full, and we do not like it as much as they have proposed. Gentlemen of VOX, today it seems that..., today it seems that they touch the rebre, eh? [[The joker laughs.]] I'm sorry, huh? It's nothing personal. They already know that we do not have sanitary cordons, worth the redundancy, in this debate, but..., look, the first PR is that we cannot vote on it or have enough wine, even if it is only for point 3, that I will proceed to read. It says: "Renew the 4_millions of SOC's employment policy line for transgender people to promote specific job integration lines for people with mental disorders and illnesses. Calia? - The calibre? Dius..., let's see... Precisely me, that I make a lot of denounce that it is political fears that they do not follow politics, that et colin the ideology, let's say, even on the menu of the restaurant... I believe that this point, sincerely, could have saved them. And it's a shame, huh? , because, otherwise, the PR was very good, you make PRs of very solvent topics. The other two will be voted on, but this, now... I'm sorry about the soul, no, because this point is ugly. And, well, I feel like I'm done right now. And then it's this, trust, trust, trust, and that God and democracy do more than we do. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.87.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.88.0	Good. Thank you, Madam President. Today we have the opportunity to demonstrate once again the usefulness of VOX to solve the real problems of Catalans. As you speak, as Mr Aragonès did in his speech a few days ago, of patriarchy, of racism, as the cause of mental health problems, we will strictly stick to the truth. Faced with his diagnosis and proposals for ideological indoctrination, our analysis and statements, focused on the reality of patients with impaired emotional health. Faced with their obvious and voluntary attitude of obviating the real social problems that cause emotional instability, our determination to protect the day to day and the reality of these people and to support those in all the dimensions of their life – all the dimensions of their life – social and health. Well, in this sense, we have tabled, we have recorded three proposals that address the three pillars that we consider to be the three fundamental pillars for mental health in Catalonia: the reintegration into work, the eating disorders and the mental health of health professionals after the pandemic – taking care of those who care for us. As I told you, there is an academic study that indicates that the rate of unemployment in people with mental disorders is about sixty per cent. Did they know that in the same study they indicate that almost half of people with mental disorders claim to have received vehement treatment in the workplace? The worst is that year after year, the legislature after the legislature, these numbers are increasing, as you waste the money of all Catalans in organizations dedicated to sugaring society. The issue is that they ignore the real causes of the problem and propose measures that are totally opposed to what people need. They prioritize their ideological delusions over the reintegration of citizens with mental disorders into work. For example, we, as Mrs Grau rightly said, propose to extend the ideological spending – because it is ideological – from 4_million in SOC employment policy lines for transgender people to promote specific lines of job integration for people with mental disorders. We propose to enhance anti-stigma measures to reduce the false beliefs of people with these diseases in work environments. We have also put forward proposals on eating disorders, as more and more young people are suffering from this problem. Suicide has become the most common cause of death among young people, and is closely linked to the most common disorders among young people, the TCA. In this case, we propose several measures, among which are invested in protected floors for these patients as a step prior to family reintegration after a hospital admission, provided that the parents request them; ensure the treatment and follow-up of all patients diagnosed with ACS by a multidisciplinary team; promote the ease of access of adolescents with and without risk factors to these teams, ensuring the possibility of avoiding medical waiting lists if specialists believe it necessary, and promote family education as a bastion of prevention and accompaniment of the disease. Yes, honourable Members, family education, since the family is where academics find that children and adolescents learn healthy behaviors, to grow in virtues, and enjoy unconditional accompaniment and love. As I said in this same chamber a few days ago, their anti-family policies and anti-promotion of values all they do is harm the mental health of all Catalan society, and in particular of children and young people. [[Some applause.]] The disorders of food behavior have been on the rise in recent decades, and the causes that have caused this increase..., it has been the society that you drive with your social engineering: a completely hedonistic society that does not give value to the person for what it is, that promotes stereotypes that only value thinness, that puts the focus on canons of beauty and social success thanks to moralist capitalism, that imposes new skills and roles on women, to those who incite the evil so-called "equality of sex". Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these attitudes of falsely feminist and progressive ideology push these people to reach this state. And this is not just our opinion, it's that of thousands of psychiatrists specialized in behavior disorders, who must all be extreme right-wing, who is how you designate those we call things by their name. [[Some applause.]] And finally, we have put forward a proposal to improve the mental health of our professionals after the tough battle they have fought and continue to fight during the covid pandemic. In addition to the lack of resources for an unprepared public health network, which already showed significant structural shortcomings, the burden caused by the pandemic and the patient's own uncertain evolution, which makes professionals forced to make truly complex decisions, is compounded. The conclusion is heartbreaking. I will not repeat to you the data of the Galatea Foundation of discharges of doctors and nurses, of feeling of physical and mental exhaustion..., in conclusion, of boredom; what I will repeat to you – and it is with what I want you to stay – is that one_of_five doctors intends to leave the profession– one_of_five doctors. Their greed and political incompetence are exhausting, but they are also ill. We have a saturated and bored health care staff who continue to be required by the same wave after wave, without offering solutions to their work problems or improving their living conditions. And they are even fooled, as the director of the ICS did during the fifth wave, in June. For all these reasons, we have put forward nine proposals to strengthen the emotional health of our health care providers. In summary, what is requested is for security measures to be strengthened and the basic needs of staff to be guaranteed. We ask that a mental health plan be implemented in Catalonia for health professionals, with emotional and work support programs. You see, on your own, in VOX we take the mental health of our citizens very seriously. We have no doubt that they will vote in favour if they really want to help girls with pathological eating behaviors, if they are interested in accessing the work of people with mental illness and reducing the stigma attached to them, or if, like us, they think that care should be taken of those who care for us. And we have no doubt because they are initiatives aimed at the help of a group of Catalans who are suffering, and without any political burden. If you vote against, you will show everyone in Catalonia that you are the ones who suffer from hatred of spite. And since it is my last intervention of the year in this atrium, I did not want to go without congratulating them all on Christmas. Very, very happy Christmas to all of you. I wanted to wish them all also that they spend some fantastic days with their family and friends, discovering, one more year, the mystery of the birth of Christ. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.89.0	On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament now has the word Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.90.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. On Tuesday, Torrentalle Mercè told us: "We are not ill with pots, we are people. Men and women with right, with severe mental disorders; vehemently, concerns, needs and gains that escort them, to break walls and overcome stigmas, not to lock themselves up or toss themselves or feel marginalized. I want to thank – and the parliamentary groups did, but I want to do it again – their participation. I also want to give thanks to all entities and associations for their constancy, help and struggle; and, above all, to the mental health professionals. And these days, where we are with the on-the-spot and complicated days, to close our thanks again to all the professionals of salvation. On Tuesday, Mercè listened to us. We hope that today, with the agreements and the wishes expressed for the different motions for resolutions, we will continue to give some response. For our part, we have put forward motions for resolutions that have tried to seek consensus and move forward in the right direction. We've seen a whole different life. It's not that you create awareness of the problem of mental health, because I think we all have it and, with the pandemic, it gets worse, but we did set it as a political priority. And we also set out as a priority to work on the basis of agreement and consensus, to work on a strategy that brings together knowledge, effort, resources from all sectors and actors involved, as well as strengthening the Commission on Mental Health of this Parliament so that it can support clear and concrete public policies to reach a model of public attention, integral and integrated, with the person at the centre, prevention, assistance, rehabilitation, welfare, community, proximity and ensuring continuity of assistance. If we look at each of these words, in the background they reflect our priorities, also the shortcomings at some point, and, above all, also the content of the motions for resolutions. The effects of the pandemic, the increase in inequalities, the impact of confinement make vulnerable sectors such as young people and children, women and the great people have been and are the population group that have seen their mental health most affected the past year. And they haven't always had the right answer. Because, it's true, we don't start from scratch and have instruments, but it's also true that mental salvation has been for many years the poor German of the health system, with waiting lists that we still have now, of forty..., among other things, two_months for a creature with eating disorders, or with waiting lists at the CSMIJs, or for example with creatures for ADHD, that only have forty-five minutes of visit every two_months. The entities, as well as those that conform to the integral plan of mental salvation, have told us. They have told us to highlight the lack of response to the needy, the economic insufficiency and, above all, the ineffectiveness of the government's work to work together. I believe that these are the things we have put on the table, but there have also been commitments on the part of the President of the Generality. The chairman of my parliamentary group, Mr Salvador Illa, in his speech said to us: "We have gone from silence to debate. Now we need to move from debate to action, action from now on and action from the future. And I want to remind you of the priorities that you brought to that debate. The first, the rights of patients, compromised with human rights, fought against stigma, prevention, explanation and visibility. The second, focus on the most vulnerable groups: infants, young people, women and large people; third, comprehensive community care, multi-disciplinary care and on primary care; fourth, suicide prevention; fifth, integration of mental health and addictions, and sisena, coordinated action of the whole Generality Administration and with the assemblies. We are not talking about a problem of salvation, it is a complex social reality. There are many common themes in the different motions for resolutions that have been put forward – and already the announcement that we will vote in favour of many of the motions for resolutions and many of the points – but we have wanted to put the emphasis – also other groups – in which is the attention to children and young people, the emphasis on prevention, early detection and assistance, and above all to give tools to the education sector to promote and strengthen the initial and permanent training of teachers and education staff to know, detect and adequately treat neurodevelopmental disorders in young children. But also to provide the necessary resources for the detection of disorders and mental illness at educational centres, above all institutes, with appropriate professionals, to train teachers, to facilitate young people's access to emotional support services with the aim that they have it in mind and that staff specialise in them. The sooner we detect, the more recovery tools we have. Elements of prevention and detection and of fighting suicide– we do not want to accept more than during the year 2020 there was an increase of a twenty-seven per cent of suicide attempts in younger years– but also assistance, because we want public, not to resort to private, and therefore increase the professional seedlings of CDIAPs and CSMIJs. But above all, it also strengthens communication between them, between them and educational centres, between them and primary care and social services, to make a better follow-up and treatment of disorders or problems of emotional distress; that we do not pass through the treatment, between one centre and another, which sometimes passes. We also wanted to make a specific PR to make a plan to prevent anorexia and bulimia – at this time, the age when children, especially children, suffer from anorexia and bulimia disorders is under the age of thirteen, and this is a problem that we can't... – with a concrete program of sensitization and follow-up; also to promote psychotherapeutic attention from primary care, and to avoid much medicalization, to reduce the number of ansiolytics we give to women. I know we don't have any other resources, but many times it's excessive. And we also want to talk about behavioral addictions, those that are not of substance, especially the whole subject of technology. For one band, we protect the right to work to disconnect, but for the other, we give information because young people and women know how to make a correct use of technologies as well. Like I said, there's a lot of coincidences. We also have some differences, some about resources, about forms of management... The care sector is very fragmented, but I think that before we set up an internalisation, we need to work much more with the sector. This does not mean that we share the view that specialised resources must be strengthened from the public service to give sufficient coverage to demand. I would like to devote the last few minutes remaining for the joint motion for a resolution of five groups of this chamber that wants to give a letter of nature to the committee that we are putting on the march to make life easier for the people affected, their families, and to combat stigma, and that promotes a national pact for mental health that we hope will actually put people with mental health problems and addictions and also their families at the centre, from a focus, as before, of comprehensive, responsible and community consensus. In short, we are looking for a paradigm shift, which we continue to identify structural problems and which incorporate criteria of the World Health Organization and also fight against stigma. I ended up with the support of The Marathon, this diumenge, and his slang of breaking walls. We hope that this is a reality and that it will help all those who want to break the silence. And I end up giving thanks again to Mercè for his testimony, but above all for his struggle and courage. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.91.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.92.0	Thank you, President. I would like to begin the intervention of our group by explaining a personal story that we wanted to live at the beginning of the legislature. We were, I think, on the fourth day. The constitution of Parliament had been made, but we still had no government, and therefore we did not have full, and from our group we decided, specifically in the area of salvation, to start gathering with different entities. And the first meeting we did with the Association Against Anorexia and Bulimia. And we rejoined the management team, and it moved us, so obviously, everything we've been talking about in this House: data, impact, how the eating disorders were triggered. And, close to the meeting, the mother of a child – who is said Blau, who had, if not erred, between eleven and twelve years – began to explain to us the concrete case of Blau, how she had developed the disorders of food conduct, the impotence and the despair that the mother felt because, well, she couldn't help it because the system, so, no? , he worked hard to give it a response; as, for example, in very advanced levels of the disruption he did not have the resources to be able to take it to a center that did not cover, in this case, the public sector. And finally, he explained to us, with an understanding I would say striking, that the baby ended up suicide. And he ended up explaining to us that no one had ever told him that when you have a eating disorder, the first cause of death is suicide, and how important it is that we talk about it, how important it is that we see it and how important it is that we take it, right? And this story, which has shaken us, has shaken me and Cristina Bigordà, who was also the person who accompanied me to the meeting, I think that... at least I have it very present in many moments too, many times, when in Parliament it costs us so much to move forward, to concrete, isn't it? When many times we cheat a lot of time when we debate when we do the law projects, right? Because, in the end, people have emergencies that they have to see with the air and today, not with the time of politics. And it's true, we have the board of study, that I think it's a historical demand of entities. I think we have today's special plethora of mental salvation, and I think it's very important, but we have to face the fact that there are thousands of people, thousands of families who have loved ones who, well, need answers to today's and to today's. And, for example, we will advance in many things, but we will not advance in some that we have proposed – and I will also mention it – as, for example, as we know at least who is the waiting list of people who need attention for the public health system, and, therefore, how long they triage to get a treatment at the public level. And at a time when I think we're all aware that people need certain, they need hope and they need us to protect them – that, in the end, what we ask ourselves is that we protect them, right? I think she's very tired, people are very exhausted. I even think it's for, huh? People don't know what's going to happen to the economic level, what's going to happen to the on-line sisena, what the new variant means. I think we don't have to be all conscious. Yes, I'd like to move two thoughts and I'd like to make a point, too. I don't want to judge anyone or give lessons, but I do want to make a couple of reflections. Each school is free to practice politics and to do politics as you think, but I do believe – and at least I want to translate it – that the debate of mental salvation did not begin the best way. I think we didn't start it the best way, and I think I speak for a lot of Members and Members. I don't think the one who went to the beginning of the plethora of mental salvation was the one who played. I thought so, didn't I? , in someone who is watching us..., thought, for example, in the Blau Sea, or thought, for example, in the Mercè, and, I don't know, one day in the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia we begin to discuss mental salvation, so maybe if it is really a national emergence, our ways of..., our discussions, therefore, that we were also able to place them in a _second floor and that we don't always become the protagonists of everything, right? , that in the end the protagonists should be the people. And it also made me feel that way at the control session. I insist, each one is free to do politics as I believe, but at a time when many people are anxious, who have problems of emotional well-being..., as well as we are political women affect people's lives: if we contribute to polarization, tension, overexcitedness, overperformance or try to give certain, tranquillity, hope. I think you've got to see this, too. And, I insist, every one of us is free to do what he thinks and to say what he thinks, we're just missing, we're in a country where we have to defend freedom of speech every day. Is it possible to say what you believe and what you think, but... is it to say, when we speak, for example, of language, when someone says that Catalonia has linguistic apartheid, when someone says that Catalonia is Ermua or when someone says that people who see Catalonia, who are Catalans, who use the castle, are actually Castilians, are we contributing to creating a climate of tranquility, of truth? Or are we contributing to a situation of anxiety and that, therefore, also the citizenry visquí what is happening in a very different context than it should be? And, I insist, I don't want to judge anyone. And, besides, I want to put in value, for example, what we do to the Health Commission, and I want to say it. Or go on, we work, and I think we work in a shared way. I, for example, many times – now there is no one, but... –, when Congresswoman Assumpta Escarp speaks, I learn, and many times when the group does not know what we have to say, we trick Assumpta and ask it... Forgive me. [[Rialles.]] It is that..., we trick the Assumpta and say to him: "Listen, Assumpta, from this, what is there? Or, for example, I see the chairman of the committee, Titon Laïlla, who, well, she certainly knows a lot better about the health system, because she works there. Or Mr. Fàbrega and Mr. Juli Fernández, who are trying together – of very different parties and ideological projects, but... – to reopen Montcada's nocturnal emergencies; with Mrs. Laia Estrada, who I have agreed with little, but I think we agree on the model, which must be every time..., really public, of managing the health system, or even with Mrs. Grau, who separate many things from us, but the two coincided that it would be a commission to investigate residences, right? And, therefore, it is a reflection that we want to convey, and that I believe it is, humbly, what we have tried, also, with the agreement of assumptions: 80_million more for mental health, 233 professionals also of emotional welfare in primary school, emotional educators in high-complexity centers at the level of education or trying to increase the staff of mental health centers, both adults and infants. I know, and they know it's not good enough, and it's a long way to go. And we want to go and we want to go a lot further, because we know that mental salvation, unfortunately, for many people, for many families in Catalonia, is a luxury, a luxury that they cannot afford. And that's why we think we have to try – the counselor knows that he's one of our targets – to get to this rate of public psyche for every hundred and a thousand inhabitants. And we know it's not easy: they're moving to the state, they're moving more resources to Catalonia, but... And also..., and here, turning a little to the personal level, well, a few years ago I went to turn off the light and the color: the light made me my psychologist, who was Elena; the color me 'will make the Victory. But when I got back to the light, I was able to go to a psychologist because I could pay for it. And I'm sure a lot of us – I don't want to generalize, but... – when we go to psychology, we pay. I didn't even know – I'm not ashamed to say it – I didn't know..., I didn't know a few years ago that there was a public psyche in the public purse. And as Gemma Tarafa says, who is the director of Health, we at the end of our life always go through the dentist, the psychologist or the psychologist and also the physiotherapist. And I think that we should also try to ensure that everyone has access to it, regardless of their income level. And that's what we've got left to do, too, in the negotiation of assumptions. We moved it there the other day to the president: we're coughing from the head, as my friend says, and we'll stick to it. Besides, I'm also telling you that if Mr. Gallego has been at the negotiating table for another week, I think he's pulling them off, huh? Because... [[The timer laughs.]] But I think there's a fear that we'll try to make it happen that we didn't. That is to say, the Konsulta'm, that it is a public psyche experience at Barcelona level, I think it is of fundamental importance. Also the suicide phone; Catalonia needs a suicide phone suitable. And I'll also tell the president... I'll propose to go see a Konsulta'm and I'll propose to go see the suicide phone in Barcelona, because I think if they know how to work, I'll convince them. And, finally, I look, I only propose that, when the lights of Parliament turn off, of these four pairs, that the people who are seeing us from home think that what we're doing here is for something; that the Mercè and the mother of Blau think that what we're doing here is for something more than to throw the dishes at us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.93.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Jordi Fàbrega.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.94.0	Well, thank you very much, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, and let me also welcome all the people you have with us and the entities you represent. It is fundamental, your pocket, priceless to improve the lives of all people suffering from mental health disorders. Many thanks for getting to the top of the Administration and for allowing the Administration to get to the right place. I think we need to be satisfied with this monographic plenary that we have done this week, listening to all..., most of the late-night interventions – let's leave it that way – and with the motions for resolutions tabled, that we will be voting from here to here. But this Ple is not a timely fact, this must be the legislature of mental salvation. The pandemic has precipitated it – Councillor Argimon has recognized it on many occasions – and this Parliament has set out to work bravely before this flagrant problem that is being questioned every day. In fact, the Commission for the Study of Mental Health and Additions must not be one of the engines, and we must congratulate ourselves, all folds, that it is working. Knowledge speaks, the wise escort. That's what Jimmy Hendrix said. On Tuesday afternoon we listened to a very striking intervention, that of the Mercè. Thank you, Mercè, for opening up some eyes that we often have too much locked up. Thank you for putting eyes on the sick and the activists. Thank you for reminding us that we are not trossets, that we are complete people, because when we talk about mental salvation we talk about the whole society, about all government departments, about salvation to all policies, as we will never tire of repeating – in this case, of mental salvation to all policies. In the late afternoon we listened to a lot of data, especially in the magnificent intervention of Congresswoman Laïlla – rubble from home – but she wanted to put back on the wall of the table perhaps the most striking, this one_of_each_four. This monogrample affects us well for all and every one of us. And all these motions for resolutions that we have been working on this week and that today will vote for all those people who have suffered, who suffer or who suffer mental health disorders. O follow, one of the four of us; or follow, one of the four we know. Today, for example, we are talking about the Roser, who, at forty-four years old, could not overcome a bipolar disorder and decided to put aside his suffering and the suffering of his family killing themselves, leaving a daughter of dynus years old and a son of said years. Or Marc's, the five-year-old who doesn't have friends at school because he doesn't know how to relate with his driver's spectrum disorder, but he knows everything about dinosaurs. Or de la Maria, who because of her depression was taken from her job. Or of the Jana – or of the Blau, which we also met with her mother – who is painting a disorder of food conduct – the Blau, unfortunately, ended as it ended. Or Joan, whose addiction to heroin has destroyed her life. Or as many as I'm sure of..., and I invite you to reflect and think about this one and four that you know, that you're going through one of these hard times. That is why I appreciate the willingness of most groups to reach consensus and to reach agreement. The theme deserves it– this" or every four deserve it. From Juntes per Catalunya, together with the Esquerra Group and the Government, we have presented ambitious proposals, decided proposals, from all departments, to improve the salvation of all people. I « Greetings understood with the WHO's broad definition: a state of complete, physical, psychological – therefore, mental – and social well-being, and with the ability of people to face challenges and changes – therefore, they also incorporate this functional aspect. And, with this will of consensus, we have put forward a proposal for a joint resolution of the five parliamentary groups – it notes this priority of mental health in all government policies – and four proposals for a joint resolution with the Esquerra Group. One about community mental health, prevention and intervention, with measures that can place more to health, social rights and education – we all know the importance of social inequalities in the good gene from mental disorders–, and also highlighting the important role of school in prevention, detection and follow-up of all these children and young people. Another about recovery from mental salvation, included and promoted. More work, job placement, housing, culture and sport measures. Inclusion in social and work life is basic, and access to housing is a right... its emancipation. We can't allow ourselves to spend hours without a trace that Congresswoman Laïlla told us that Emilio explained it to us and explained it to us on Tuesday, can we? A third on the most affected collections, women and youth. If the global xifra of one_of_each_four is impacting, in women it is one_of_each_three. In young people, more than thirty per cent of adolescents between gods and dinosaurs suffer from some type of mental disorder – forty per cent, anxiety, anxiety or depression – and every year in the world one adolescent is killed every eleven minutes – obviously, with a gender bean clear to women. And one last, after all, PR on security, emergency and people deprived of freedom policies. Because, unfortunately, we arrest them are the great oblivions of the system, and there is social policy with capital, as Councillor Ciuro knows. We are voting, among others, on mental health from prevention, with community resources; counting on emotional welfare references to primary care; transforming long-term mental health care; combating stigma associated with mental health and addictive behaviour; training educational professionals to improve prevention and knowledge, with the collaboration of health professionals; promoting the employment of people with mental health disorders; enhancing the acquisition of housing for children and young people working with mental health problems; incorporating a gender and cross-sectoral perspective into mental health; promoting an education to channel emotions with therapeutic support for children and young people; creating a gender and cross-sectional perspective to the profession of good health; promoting an education to channel emotions with therapeutic support for children and young people; and creating an educational and cross-sectional perspective to the profession of good health; promoting a training in health care for children and young people; providing information and outreach to the profession; promoting the profession of good health care centres; providing training in the field of good health care; providing information to young people; providing information and information to the profession in the field of good health; promoting the profession; In summary, to sum up, a national pact – the national pact – for mental health, which improves detection, prevention, comprehensive treatment of people with mental health problems and/or addictions, deinstitutionalization and struggle against stigma. And we have sought consensus – as was said before, who preceded me – on all these issues, and I believe that we have achieved it, because they are essential and feasible proposals to the reality with the assumptions of Councillor Giró, the best possible assumptions with the current autonomous brand. We have also sought consensus in the proposals put forward for the other groups – obviously, not all of them – and I must thank the good will of the Members and Members of the different groups to give our support to the maximum possible proposals. So, we will support proposals for resolutions from all parliamentary groups, except one, of course; most of them, with modifications that have been accepted to make it more viable, to make it more feasible. Thanks, one more time, for your flexibility. And to all those proposals that we cannot support..., it is above all because we are asking ourselves whether we should stop our health and social model, and we are not prepared in such a way as to dismantle a health system that is the result of a consensus with the LOSC for a long time, of all this parliamentary arc, of all Catalan society, and in no way can we renounce the entities of the third sector, which are fundamental to the attention of the mental health network..., and neither can we support unrealistic proposals, can we? to proposals asking for the moon in a pit, when to get the moon we don't have the pit. If we had the key to our resources, all of us, we might have everything: the pit, obviously, but also the moon. That's what we're working on, too, and there's no doubt we'll get it. Of all the issues we've talked about this week, let's just highlight one that we talked about with Congressman Cid: with the advice of Councilman Giró, the department will work, I'm sure, to get these psychologists per hundred_ thousand inhabitants. In fact, the average in Spain is six; the average in Catalonia is twelve. We have to work to get these divided, but we need the Spanish government to expand these places of PIR. The pilot is at his roof, and he knows, and he knows that they will work there; therefore, we hope to see the fruits. And, certainly, the 1,600_millions of the general assumptions of the Covid-19 Fund State that were approved by Junts' proposal for Catalonia, so they also went very well and are also essential at these times, that Covid-19 is not over. Well, in all the measures that we have not been able to agree with all the groups in these PRs, I also say to them that there is no doubt that we will continue to work together for Catalonia: from the Parliament, from the Commission for the Study of Mental Health and Additions, to rape with associations, and we are sure that from the Government, to achieve all the necessary consensus to improve the mental health of everyone. I want to express Juntas' firm commitment to Catalonia to continue working and searching and finding and achieving all the consensus that affects mental health. This monographic ple is just one more step in the way, and the work continues to the entities, to the streets, to the associations, to the society, to the Parliament, and I am sure that the Government too. A later point to ask everyone to collaborate at the marathon of this Sunday, this weekend, on TV3 and Catalunya Radio. We all need to visualize mental salvation and fight against stigma. Break these walls. I am sure that with the marathon – we are not sure – this country will again demonstrate that solidarity forms part of our DNA. Of course, all the cases that I've mentioned at first all were real cases, known to me either personally or professionally, but with the name changed to keep it anonymous, obviously. Because, remember, we all know about it or we all know about it one_of_each_four; thirty-four deputies, for example, from this chamber. We vote these PRs thinking of all of them, all of them, how we can improve their lives to achieve this complete state of physical, psychological, social, ability to cope with challenges and changes. Well, I haven't changed all of them; Roser is Roser. Wherever you are, auntie, we're voting for you today. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.95.0	Thank you, Congressman. I, then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mrs Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.96.0	Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, advisors, advisors, advisors, members of the entities and people who followed us from home, deputies and deputies.... Today I am happy, and I mean, the same way I should be able to say that I am not, with the same tranquility. Without falling into cophosms, in self-congratulations, I am happy because we are finally due to this monographic debate on mental health, with the relevancy that this implies, and they are also promoting from the main institution of the country that represents – represents – this vision of citizenship and of all the people who, without any doubt, were, will be necessary, and, if I may, absolutely indispensable. And I'm happy and I want to put emphasis on three important things: the first is that this monographic plenary is marked – and the same president said it – for an absolute priority of this legislature, country priority, and that today we are looking for this consensus between different political groups, with their ideology, because this priority pulls forward. The second is that it has a proper name, also: the national pact of mental salvation and emotional well-being, in which we commit institutions, entities... And we also commit ourselves from all over the sector to working hard on it. And the third is a paradigm shift that some Members have also said: that mental salvation ceases to be that diagnostic, which individually affects some people, and that, moreover, is locked and barred in a scrupulous silence, to be an environment that we have to work as a society in a cross-cutting way – and that is why I am glad that you are also very representative of the government here – and in an integral way for people. In 2014, more or less, the sector came to me and said: « Mental health must also be, from Parliament, giving impetus to this integral plan of mental salvation – which had been approved – « that we need to prioritize its actions. And we did it, too, from Parliament. This house has the will to accompany those policies that must be done for the people, those reptiles of society. That we are still here today, therefore, shows that the public debate, also in this Parliament – the debate in the street, the people's debate – has made it inevitable and unappealable for institutions to pose a latent and obvious problem. One of the great changes, however, is precisely what he said before: it must be that we don't just look at how it affects people, but how it affects us as a society; as if of a change from now on as an individual diagnosis in public policies of the whole society. The first step because this debate was possible was to start cutting taboos to face the stigma that exists in the realm of mental salvation. And this has been achieved by all the number of activists – also Mercè – who have been trying to break these taboos by breaking their own silence for years. The opportunity to listen to Mercè Torrentallé speaking in the first person about what it means to be a person affected by a mental disorder for her, for the family, for her daughter..., told us very clearly: an experience of life that I am not sure that many people felt for the first time, that they never had the opportunity to feel that Mercè is not a person with a diagnosis, but that Mercè is delineating, that it likes to write, read, paint, walk through the forest, like many of us... ; that Mercè, like many of us, is a person all of us, not just its diagnosis. So this public and media debate – also important –, social uncomplexity to talk about our anemic, emotional and social state is a very good news that has to advance us even further to make it ambitious, effective and effective. And I make a little bit of a parenthesis that seems to me to be mandatory and that we can't escape it: if we ever came from a situation that we diagnosed or qualified as a preemptive mental-health epidemic, so now we're forced to talk about how one pandemic is adding to the other. There are different studies of the impact of the covid on mental health on the emotional well-being of the whole society, on people who already have or are already suffering from a mental disorder: how it has affected their access, how it has affected their attention and how it has affected their recovery. The community, the network, that suddenly ceases to exist – suddenly ceases to exist –, the vivid loneliness for many people..., bring us some data, which have been said here: increase of the twenty-i-set_per_cent in suicide attempts, increase of the disruptions of food ducts in children and young people. Therefore, the data are many and also clearly indicate that the real social inequalities, those that some do not want to recognize, but that are real, add impact here too: the great people, the young people, those who see with infants, and how they have affected the people who have to work differently, the women. And that is why, as Mercè said, we must also include the gender perspective, and here we also have proposals. And, beyond the basket, the repte continues to feel how and what. That we must obey and give response from the public system to all that person, to all the people who make a mountain face day by day, to people who suffer from anxiety or anxiety, to people who suffer from eating disorders. And it seems to me that company David Cid marked us here an example of how the Blau's mother was able to explain what she represents and also, unfortunately, that ignorance that they had that one of the causes of death could be precisely suicide. The changes in food behavior have dissipated; they have dissipated and we have to put a lot of eyes. Those people who are victims of physical, psychological and sexual abuse. Those people who feel empty or sunny. That person who is in a job or economic instability causes them discomfort. The person who suffers from an insurmountable family situation. The person who feels separated or expelled from society, as was also spoken to us by the deputy of the child, seems to me to have said, "Marc – who has autistic spectrum and who feels dislocated, although he knows everything about dinosaurs. That person who feels too... who can't sleep, can't rest. In short, all people who circumstantially or structurally suffer from some type of problem that makes them unhappy. We don't have to be or feel any more alone. Come with us. Come with us. It's a repte of society. It is urgent, priority, necessary and necessary to do so. We cannot continue to assume that suicide is the leading cause of death among the young man. We cannot continue to assume that a deu_per_cent of the population is constantly treated with antidepressants or drugs to be able to sleep – and the counselor knows that it is not the solution, either, to his problems. We cannot continue to assume that there are people who live their lives immersed in patience and anguish. It's up to us to roll. The proposals we are presenting are cross-cutting: not only greetings, not only greetings and social rights, but also everything else. As Mercè said, we're not trossets of people, we're honest people. And we are clear: we have fought for a universal system, fairness and quality, and this is not guaranteed despite the fact that the title says so. Universality must be shielded, and it must be watched that it really is for everyone. Equity must be constantly sought – constantly –: social, territorial and gender. When we say... we move between resources: CDIAPs, CSMIJs, CSMAs. When we have acute pathology, when we are addressing the community in recovery services, as we move from one recourse to another, what is the continuum... We are talking about a life alone– of a life alone. And quality is a permanent challenge, which, fortunately, our country, the entities and professionals we have also make a clear contribution to it. And that is why I highlight the most relevant elements of the proposals to the plenary. That from Esquerra Republicana, together with other groups – Junts, CUP, In Comú Puem and PSC – we promote the national pact for mental salvation with a joint proposal, also, a cry with a great political consensus of country that marks an integral and social agreement and that addresses mental salvation at all vital stages. This national pact must serve as a reference tool for public policies that will continue to invest in mental health, a motor of change that is in effect for all participants, institutions and society. The approach to mental salvation is, as President Aragonès said, a priority in this legislature, and we will do so. We have an opportunity that we can't let go. This is why we need to align resources with coordination of all administrations and entities. We put people in the center, with this holistic and integral look. We work multi-disciplinaryly and in the network also with the view in the recovery. And we're fighting stigma. Four proposals: community mental health, supporting and allocating resources to the person, but also to the family and its surroundings; recovery of mental health with ambitious measures of inclusion in the field of work, physical and sports activities [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] ; also adapted to needs and also looking at infants, young people, large people, penitentiaries centers – very important, mental health in penitentiaries centers – and prevention and training programs – also training the teachers to be able to detect. Object – I'm finished, president, sorry –..., a simple object: full life, worthy, which will also mean happier. Everything, with the necessary ambition. With regard to the remaining proposals, thank you. All the ambition that we have put in the consensus in our own groups we have also put in to see that we can accept and embrace the other groups. And let me say... give thanks to the group, but thank you also for breaking the pores, thank you for wanting to face the pores. The reason is very powerful, it has marked the silence and violation of rights for many years, but we are winning it. The collective response of today, of great consensus, ambition and priority of the country and the proposals of all groups, I think they will be pleased, and it is the best way to break this by. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.97.0	Then, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.98.0	Thank you very much, President. I think this is a topic where there is broad consensus, and we all share enough diagnostics and how we face this problem. That, unfortunately, therefore, the economic and health and social crisis caused by the covid has suffered and will have, unfortunately, an important impact on emotional suffering, and, therefore, we have already seen how the cases of mental health problems have increased and how, unfortunately, they will continue to increase. In this sense, we have proposed three motions for resolutions that go in three basic lines, which are: one, fighting stigma – I think it is a key one, other groups have also commented on it – increasing the level of medical coverage that is currently donated and eliminating waiting lists. Mental salvation today, unfortunately, is still a taboo, and it's a taboo that we need to eradicate, because the World Health Organization ensures that one of four people far from his life will suffer some kind of mental illness, right? And, therefore, we must work firmly against this stigma that supposes to have a problem of mental salvation. It's okay..., it's okay to make a ple in this sense as we did here, it's okay The marathon, it's okay to create the study commission – I think it's important, the Mental Health Study Commission and the Additions. And the more we talk about it, the more we contribute to eradicating this stigma. We must involve the families, keep them present in the whole process, not only to detect a problem of mental salvation, but in their treatment, because in the end the families are the main caregivers of whom suffer these diseases. And it's important to keep them very present especially when we're talking about infants or teenagers. The search for maximum consent is essential. I think that's what we all agree on. It could be seen in the plethora that was held a few days ago. You will see now, I believe, in the votes of these motions for resolutions – mostly all of us share the same positions. And this consensus is important in the work and conclusions that come from the study committee that I mentioned earlier about mental health and addictions. This is a joint strategy and a coordinated work with institutions and entities in the social and health spheres. It is essential to have an up-to-date information and assessment system that allows us to detect which measures are working and which are not to act quickly and efficiently. The accountability of any public measure is essential, I believe, because really the policies that apply are useful, and on this issue especially are still more so, right? It is necessary that the level of coverage is at the level of other medical conditions. Prevention and detection programs must be central in the different stages of life cycle to promote psychological well-being at all stages of life, with special dedication to childhood, adolescence and youth, so as to avoid risky conducts and ducts that increase over time or widen over time. The professionals, in fact, complain that the public network is under-funded, and that this causes it to receive more psychopharmaceuticals because there are no resources to do therapy. This is a subject that we need to reverse. Without doubt, where there may be therapy there must be no drugs, there must be no psychopharmaceuticals. We need to strengthen the mental health model to ensure access to the health system and therapeutic resources and treatments of the mental health network. We said before: confinement, in addition to exacerbating emotional distress and mental disorders, has made it difficult to access health resources, and this has made cases and symptoms even more difficult. The collapsing of primary care services has led to a backlog in the diagnosis and detection of our cases, and that is a problem. It's a problem, because getting in the way... every day that's past a delay is a cause for a problem that is harder to deal with. Therefore, we need to reduce the administrative collapsing and waiting lists, and we need to improve accessibility to all citizens of existing resources and improve existing resources. We need to set up psychotherapeutic plans for the users and their families, as we said before, in the public mental health network, ensuring the participation of these people in these therapies. Families are the first to detect changes in children's attitudes. Anxiety cases are increasing, and food disorders are increasing and worsening – it has been mentioned before by other MPs – and families need resources and tools to deal with these situations and can participate in the whole treatment process. To update the mental health service portfolio in the Mental Health Advisor Council framework to specify covered services in the public health system, make a review based on prevention and psycho-educational and psycho-therapeutic interventions. We need to integrate health and social resources to improve the administration's response. And it is necessary to increase efforts to tackle substance use and addictions between the youngest population – it is especially important and worrying about the increase that has been detected in the abuse and problem of digital technology, the game and social networks. We need to set aside an urgent plan to eliminate the waiting lists; it is a recurring theme in our interventions and in the motions for resolutions, but... There are many waiting lists in the public health mental network, and we need to ensure that the attention remains during the first week of the petition and the subsequent visits as a function of the need and not of the availability of professionals. This is not the case today: the waiting list to get a visit to the psychologist can be extended three_months, because the name of the clinical psychologists of social security is neither the half of the European media nor the majority of people – we need to be very aware – cannot afford to pay attention to private health care. It may implement detection mechanisms in the community and in the workplace as a better way to prevent this type of illness, and it may give more support and encourage programs that work to reintegrate people who suffer from some type of illness or mental health disorder. We also need to set up a campaign of reinforcement in coordination with the education sector so that prevention campaigns can be carried out in the areas surrounding children, adolescents and young people. Finally – I finish my intervention already – I need to deploy the totality of strategic lines, areas and objectives of the suicide prevention plan. Unfortunately, the data are very painful: only in one year – last year – 4,285 suicide attempts in Catalonia. They're high-mass ciphers. Suicide is already the first cause of death – the first cause of death – between the population of fifteen to thirty-four years. It's just a few figures that we can't afford. Suicide today, unfortunately, is still a taboo in our society, and often people around the world don't know who to talk to. People who have lived for a suicide are at a very high risk of developing a pathological pain that ends up in a disorder, and can lead them to themselves at suicidal tempts. Therefore, it is a problem to put it at the centre of our focus, especially with teenagers and young people, who today, unfortunately, have suicide as the first cause of death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.99.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.100.0	Thank you, President. We know that migrations, the poor, the dark, the lack of family support, the demographic aging, the loneliness, the abuse of substances every day at the earliest ages and the emergence of social networks on a day-to-day basis are factors that contribute to the deterioration of mental health. The details of the last few years have also affected the parties directed to attend to these situations, just at a time when, with the escalator of the crisis of the covid-19, it is more necessary than ever this increase of resources for social services and for attention to mental health. Moreover, it is expected that the proper onades will continue to increase the emotional and mental health problems of the population. This is why we need to address mental health and addictions from a cross-cutting and multi-disciplinary vision that allows for more effective action in detection, prevention and integration of this problem that impacts both family and work environments as well as the staff and social areas of which it is affected, causing a strong impact on the quality of life. Therefore, one of our proposals for a resolution in this essential monographic plenary on mental health speaks precisely about the model of approach, indicating that it is a public system, universal and free to attend to mental health, that is integral and multidisciplinary and that articulates primary, secondary and community levels. It is necessary to overcome the current model, which is fragmented into more than sixty providers that have neither common objectives nor control on the part of CatSalut. Therefore, this management must also be internalised to ensure that this service is cohesive. There is also a Community model that integrates the territory and puts the focus on deinstitutionalizing patients, which we also agree with other groups in this approach. It also promotes a culture and community practice that facilitates the participation of those affected, who are always subsidiaries and the most oblivious in the management and coordination of mental health approaches. And we need, of course, sufficient resources for each health sector to have a suitable therapeutic team, without forgetting, above all, as we say, primary care. Because primary health care is facing a reality for which it does not have adequate tools because it has left them for the way, a path dominated by biological approaches, for a progressive standardization of care processes, for a fragmented view of health problems and people, and for a wealth of resources in the public health system, in general, and, in concrete terms, for primary health care. Another of the resolution proposals that we present in this monographic plenary speaks specifically about mental health and young people, because, according to data from the Catalan Youth Agency, the year 2018 the poverty risk rate among young people from seven to twenty-nine years was 27.1_per_cent; it is more than one quarter of the collection, at a time of economic growth, that was at risk of poverty, and it is the highest proportion of the last twenty years. Therefore, we understand that the worsening of the material conditions of life, such as access to housing or the world of work or migrating bagatge, have direct and devastating effects on the mental health of young people. We also see in this increase, 2020, of twenty-i-set_per_cent in the suicide tempts of younger people of age. Therefore, it is even harder when we see that detection and prevention are, unfortunately, falling down to the institutes, where there would be a greater effort of public health, for example, implementing and ensuring implementation in all the health and school centers, which is a program that puts the nursing staff at the centers with visits to students in a confidential way, and currently not so high up to all the educational centers nor, therefore, is detected for teenagers with suicidal ideas. Therefore, one of the proposals is to deploy, as we say, this Health and School program, placing special emphasis on the impacts of mental health resulting from situations of male violence, in situations of migrating bagatage, in situations of ethnoracial identity and in the approach of gender-affective disagreements, which are four of the main causes of the worsening of mental health in young people. It is also essential, therefore, to work towards the elimination of the material causes that affect mental salvation: poverty, isolation, the lack of socialization alternatives outside of what is the realm of consumerism... And it is also essential that young people can see and participate in the debate and the proposals on their mental salvation. For what it does to quality public services in relation to mental health, it is necessary to guarantee them, and this happens indestriably to guarantee the working conditions worthy of the workers of the service. Specifically to mental health care, a multifactorial approach is essential. And providing resources is appropriate for health care staff to ensure prevention, approach and quality monitoring. So, are they more professional than mental salvation? No doubt, yes. But I need to improve their working conditions and provide them with the psychological and emotional support they need to make their highly feminized pocket sustainable with their own mental health. We must not forget, either, that in this case the special protection of users also passes for inmates to prison, and, therefore, where mental salvation has a strong impact on internal people and where the defence of human rights must always prevail. Therefore, we cannot fail to indicate that it is essential to touch the Circular on mechanical connotations 2/2021, which the Department of Justice wants to repeal or modify. The sum of precariousness, saturation, neglect, and more in contexts of privatization and concertation, as we see for example in the case of the residence of Villablanca, among many other cases, puts at risk the rights and salvation of the workers, because mental salvation has to depend on the comprehensive mental health network and collaborate with primary care; not replace it, but coordinate it and coordinate it. We need more doctors, more nurses, more clinical psychologists, more social workers and more psychiatrists, but we need these professionals to have the right working conditions to guarantee these quality public services, which are planned, coordinated at all levels and equipped, above all, with sufficient resources to show that they are really the priority that the government says they are. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.101.0	Thank you very much. So let us finish the debate here, and proceed to the vote on the various motions for resolutions. [[Pause.]] Yes, President. Why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] You want to make a statement? So, according to the terms in which you use the word, it won't open again. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.102.0	Thank you very much, President. A short intervention. First of all, as long as this debate is taking place, therefore, on a petition from me as chairman, I think it is just right to thank all parliamentary groups for the debate, the contents, as well as the motions for resolutions and the work presented. There was an objective in the celebration of this debate, which was to place on the political agenda and on the social debate the question of mental salvation to our country so as to assume, all folds, commitments in the field of public policies, and to assume them from the main organs and institutions of the country, from the Parliament of Catalonia and, obviously, from the Government. The motions for resolutions which will be approved at length, therefore, from today's plenary count on entry, obviously, as all, with the government's compromise to implement them, but in this case this compromise is more explicit than ever. It is more explicit than ever, because mental salvation is a national emergence that can serve without delay. I would like to end by saying that in this House, by luck – and I think we have all done so, in this sense – there has been much talk about first people, families of people affected by mental health disorders. He also talked about the professionals and talked about the community. Therefore, people have set themselves at the centre, and it is a good way to focus this debate, but all the other debates about the main challenges the country has. We are, therefore, as I said, in this House and in the national pact for mental salvation and emotional well-being, mental salvation on the political agenda. And that's absolutely key and it's a good result. But we will make a mistake if it is only kept on the agenda during this Pleth or during the duration of the process of elaboration and approval of the National Pact for Mental Health. It has to be always, and, therefore, it has to be kept every day. I am convinced that the compromise of all and all and the level of consensus and work that has been done with the proposals for resolution will allow us to focus on it in this way. Thank you all. Good morning. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.103.0	Yes, Mr. Illa? Why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Do you want to do an intervention, too, from the escho? [[Pause.]] Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Very briefly, to reiterate my group's commitment to working together on this issue, and to publicly say that it has been a certainty to make this Plethora of mental salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-17-2004.105.0	Are there any other groups that would like to speak after the President's speech? [[Pause.]] Okay. Then, after the debate, let us now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions, according to the order of entry into the register, which have been grouped together by parliamentary groups, in accordance with Rule 155.2 of our Rules of Procedure. We shall therefore begin in the first place with the proposals put forward for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution has not been adopted. He received 25 votes in favour, 74 against and 33 abstentions. We are now voting on Resolution No. 2, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted, with 122 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 3 was not adopted, with 16 votes in favour, 83 votes against and 33 abstentions. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the VOX Parliamentary Group. Let's vote on proposal number one. The vote begins. Motion for resolution No. 1 was not adopted, with 12 votes in favour, 119 votes against and one person who did not vote. We are now voting on resolution 2, with incorporated error correction. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was not adopted, with 17 votes in favour and 115 votes against. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 3 was not adopted, with 18 votes in favour and 114 votes against. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites pour Avançar. We are voting for Resolution No. 1, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 1 was adopted with 122 votes in favour, 1 against and 9 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was adopted, with 132 votes in favour. We are now voting on resolution 3, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted, with 132 votes in favour. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Group of the European Parliament. First of all, we are voting on motion for resolution No. 1. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 1 was adopted, with 123 votes in favour, 9 votes against. We are now voting on resolution 2, with incorporated error correction. Start voting. Motion for a resolution No. 2 was not adopted, with 49 votes in favour, 74 votes against and 9 abstentions. And we are now voting on Motion for Resolution No. 3, with incorporated error correction. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted, with 123 votes in favour and 9 against. We shall continue to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled jointly by the parliamentary groups of the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia. We are voting for resolution number one. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 1 was adopted, with 118 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 5 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was adopted, with 114 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 9 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted, with 114 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 9 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 4. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 4 was adopted, with 123 votes in favour and 9 against. We are now voting on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Joint Group. We shall vote on resolution No. 1. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 1 was adopted, with 123 votes in favour and 9 against. We are now voting on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 2 was not adopted, with 57 votes in favour and 74 votes against. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 3 was adopted, with 123 votes in favour and 9 against. Next, we now vote on the motions for resolutions put forward for the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Guanyar. The vote on the motion for a resolution No. 1 begins. Motion for a resolution No. 1 which was not adopted, with 17 votes in favour and 115 votes against. We are now voting on Resolution No. 2, with the built-in error correction. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No 2 was adopted, with 82 votes in favour, 12 votes against and 38 abstentions. We are now voting on resolution No. 3. The vote begins. Motion for a resolution No. 3 was not adopted, with 17 votes in favour, 110 against and 5 abstentions. And, finally, we will now vote on the motion for a resolution presented jointly for the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress, the Parliamentary Group for Republican Esquerra, Junts for Catalonia, the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning and In Comú Pode. Let us vote on this joint motion for a resolution. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted, with 115 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] And just remind them that I call them in the minute of silence at the door of the Palau del Parlament, we raise the session.
