ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.1.0	Good morning. If you take your seats, please, we'll resume the session. [[Project assumptions for 2022]] [[230-00001/13 and 230-00002/13]] And we do it on the fifth point of the order of the day, which is what corresponds to the draft budget of the Parliament of Catalonia for 2022. By agreement of the Enlarged Bureau, this item on the agenda will be substantiated jointly with the agenda item, which is the relation to the draft assumptions of the Statutory Guarantee Board, of the Union of Accounts and also of the Greuges Syndicate by 2022. The first Vice-President, Mrs Alba Vergés, will therefore make the joint presentation. Have the word, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.2.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to all, Members, Members and Councillors. So, we find ourselves on the agenda of the presentation of the draft budget of the Parliament of Catalonia for this year 2022. In this elaboration of Parliament's presupposition..., as always, as has always been the case, Parliament's presupposition, therefore, expresses this joint, systematic quantification of the economic contingencies that can be recognised in an exercise. So, what we're doing is, for this 2022, decide, right? , which are the economic contingencies that we will have to manage this house, the house of the people, the house of the Parliament of Catalonia, the work of the deputies and deputies and this representation in the face of the citizenry. The presupposition of the Parliament is integrated into the presupposition of the Generalitat de Catalunya. And, therefore, it will return to this premise of the Government of Catalonia, from which it has come at a time of departure, which is this publication in the DOGC by the Department of Economics and History, of the order of elaboration of the presumption, where clearly the terms are marked and their contents are marked and how this presentation is to be made. A copy has been published, therefore, the Oidory of Accounts of Parliament, following the instructions of the Bureau and in coordination with the Secretary General, elaborates the preliminary draft of the budget and its elevation to the Expanded Bureau, in which..., we have already held this meeting of the Enlarged Bureau on 28 September and approved this preliminary draft of the budget because today it was possible to present in this plenary of the Parliament. Once approved by the plenary, it is sent back, another time, to the department of the Generality competent in the matter of assumptions for its incorporation into the draft law of assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia, which will also return to the Parliament for its approval. This is the presupposition processing process. A premise which, for this 2022, gives that we come from an extension and that, therefore, there is a change in respect to the 2020 premise, incorporates important novelties, interesting novelties and novelties which I believe the Parliament must also lead and be part of this example. The main one is how we fit into the 2030 agenda. The 2030 Agenda is an integral, multidimensional agenda, covering three dimensions of sustainable development: the economic dimension, the social dimension and the environmental dimension. It is of universal application and is deployed by means of a sustainable development objective disset system. In this premise we have been able to grasp three concepts related to different objectives of sustainable development, which we will detail further so that we can introduce them into the elaboration of this premise of the 2022 Parliament. The first of these relates to Gender Equality's goal 5, of presumption and gender perspective. The second of which is the climate action objective 13: climate change and assumptions. And the last of them is the goal number 9 of industry, innovation and infrastructure, to which we will refer as digital pressure and transformation. In the first, "the premise and perspective of gender, what we have been able to do in the elaboration of this premise of 2022 is to analyze the wage gap which, in agreement with the Guide for the incorporation of the perspective of gender into parliamentary work..., so this analysis of wage gap had to be included in the house of the Parliament of Catalonia. And we find that there is a wage rate calculated for all the collections, in real-time, of 4.20_per_cent; in full-time it is 3.53_per_cent. It is distinguished between the different collections that work and that we are part of this Parliament of Catalonia, as they are functioning, acting, eventuals and deputies. And so, in real time, you would work on us a salary of 1.99_per_cent; in interim, of 3.81_per_cent; in eventual, of 6.78_per_cent, and in deputies, of 2.67_per_cent. Beyond the analysis of the wage bracket, also in this objective of linking the assumption with the gender perspective, the assumption has also been linked with the equality plan. Different presuppositional applications have been provided with sufficient credit to compliment the different actions that the equality plan has approved for the Parliament of Catalonia and that is in the process of unfolding. Thus, in Chapter I there is the creation and equipping of the structure of the Equality Office of the Parliament of Catalonia. Chapter II takes into account the training of public employees: the organization of conferences, meetings and conferences, the preparation of reports and studies. And in Chapter VI, the acquisition of bibliographical background and the development of applications that contemplate the collection of disaggregated data by sex. If we move to the other objective, to the objective of climate change and digital transformation, these two more objectives than we have put on the table, beyond the gender perspective, the Parliament is planning different actions to achieve an ecological transition and to promote the fight against climate change, as well as adapting the Administration to the new digital society. And so we contemplate in this premise, in its Chapter II, energy certification audits, maintenance of photovoltaic plates that were installed in the Parliament of Catalonia in the past legislature, environmental studies. And in Chapter VI we also count on machinery replacement that is already obsolete for more efficient machinery and that, therefore, takes into account this perspective of the fight against climate change, and replacements of tanks for others, too, of more efficient. And just as we are in digital transformation, we have different projects already in the way, as can be the same electronic register of Parliament, which we are encouraged to adapt to this more digital society and to modernise the administration of Parliament and the proper organization of work. If we look at the evolution of the presupposition of the Parliament of Catalonia from 2010 to 2022, we will see that this presupposition 2022 is at the level of the presupposition 2010. After 2010, there was a lot of presupposition in many years, many prorogations, too, presuppositions. And what it does is that we can present today for the Parliament of Catalonia a 2022 assumption on the line and at the level of what we had in this 2010. This means that we are in a budget of EUR 65,557,804.73. What supposes, yes, a variation respects the presupposition 2020, which is the last approved presupposition, of..., a positive variation of 4.09_per_cent, respects that presupposition of 2020, which was approved on March 4, 2020, therefore, just before the esclat with force of this pandemic of the covid. The main assumptions of the assumption for the exercise of this 2022 is that there is an important difference in the parties of the different chapters. Increases the expenditure of Chapter I, which is "Remuneration of staff". And it reduces the expense of the other chapters, to compliment the agreements approved by the Bureau, to the legal increments, too, and so does the forecast of the implementation of the establishment in the transitional arrangement according to the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. Thus, we find that this 4,09_percent increase in the 2022 budget compared to 2020, in Chapter I, which will represent 63,09_percent of the Government of Catalonia's budget, there is an increase of 25,58_percent and stands at 41,363,401_euro. Chapter II has, in change, a..., which represents 13,52_per_cent, has a davalada of 16,18_per_cent. Chapter IV has a davallada of 21,23_per_cent. And chapter VI a 21.4_per_cent davalada. To explain in detail what is in the different chapters of the preamble of the Catalonian Parliament, in Chapter I, "Remuneration of staff, which, as we have seen, is the most important part of this premise, there is much variation in this 2022 assumption with respect to what it had been, isn't there? , the prorogations or the usual presuppositions in Parliament. And this has different motives, which I'll detail. The first of them is a new structure of spokespersons and composition of this 14th legislature. As you know, we have eight parliamentary groups. This means more structure of Members, Members, more structure than is the structure of within the groups – it is to say, Presidents, Spokesmen, etc. – and also of all that derives from having more parliamentary groups: it is more necessary, therefore, here in Parliament, to have staff and also, obviously, to have space and infrastructure. After that, the application of the Statute in the transitional arrangement according to the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, which says, and is the will of this Parliament, reduce that set of compensations that we have in Chapter IV, to apply more transparency to it – and this is the will of the whole Parliament – and go to pay. This isn't a closed deal, today. So, here's a forecast of a few figures that we could get to, that the figures will vary, but today this is not a closed agreement. But in this 2022 premise we must be able to see that Parliament can comply with the agreements it has and with the will it has. And when an agreement is concluded by parliamentary groups, it will be incorporated with the exact figures in the Parliament of Catalonia. There is also the consolidation of the 0.9_per_cent increase approved by 2021 of the staff to the administration service; the endowment of 94.5 basic modules corresponding to the group assistants and parliamentary subgroup. This is the result of an enlarged Bureau agreement of 21 December 2020, for which all persons working as assistants to parliamentary groups, parliamentary subgroups as well, form, become part of the possible staff of the Parliament of Catalonia. And this means endowment in this chapter I, and it means, too, endowment not only of the under and wages, but also of social security contributions, which until that moment was only a game of transfers to parliamentary groups, which will be diminished, as I will explain later. Consolidation of the seniority corresponding to the exercise 21 and prediction of merit corresponding to the exercise 22; changes in staffing, in line with the needs of the Parliamentary Administration; increase in replacement and eventuality of functions; significant increases in credit corresponding to social contributions, as explained, mainly motivated by this increase in staffing of all those who become part of the eventual staff of the Parliament of Catalonia. With regard to Chapter II, "Current expenditure on goods and services, there are some parties that increase, some decrease. Increase the loggers, so that you can process a branded agreement for the audio-visual equipment logger. Increase new insurance services contracts as well. It diminishes the endowment of that inscription that had been made in the presuppost 2020 for the celebration of the forty anniversary of the restoration of the Parliament of Catalonia. It also increases, for a table agreement of May 1, 2021, to put in operation immediately the translation service in Catalan sign language. And it diminishes the endowment for the transitional disposition of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, which there is the will to decrease this game in concept of compensations. With regard to Chapter IV, « Current transfers, the variation is mainly motivated by the table agreement of 21 December 2020, for which parliamentary groups and sub-groups have assistants with the consideration of possible Parliament staff. And this was financed until that moment by mediating the presuppositional application intended to deal with the subsidisation of parliamentary groups. Therefore, here is a strong decrease, because it happens, all these personnel, to be possible personal of the Parliament of Catalonia. And Chapter VI, of real investments, also important for this maintenance of the Parliament of Catalonia, lowers the expenses destined to the investments of the building: machinery, furniture, equipment of process of information of data and telecommunications, and all material and immaterial immobilisation. This chapter always includes, on a permanent basis, the investment corresponding to the best of the building, which is a singular building, which is the Palau del Parlament, listed as a historicalartistic monument. Thus, here are the maintenance and repair works of the same palau, the technical support solution to the electronic administration, the consultancy and the deployment of the documentary manager, the technical support for the development of IT projects. And I can detail some new reversal projects, which are the most important ones, which are expected to be carried out or initiated during the exercise of 22, such as the adaptation of perimeter tanks to the terraces, the adequacy of low and noble floor space, the renovation of camera equipment, audio and lighting, skirts of two sides of the hemisphere, the acquisition of different furniture, the CPD management system, the load balancing system, the renovation of the transit manager and the comprehensive nominal management information solution. And here is all that is decided in this working group on the Parliament's range of uses, which, as you know, is lacking in space and there is always a fight to be able to have space, to have space for this parliamentary group, so you will also have to be able to contemplate mediating this novel of treasuries that we also have in the Parliament of Catalonia. And, obviously, I cannot finish the intervention of the Parliament of Catalonia because today there is the presentation of the presupposition of Parliament 2022, but also of the Council of State Guarantees, the Syndicate of Greuges and the Union of Accounts, which are part of this parliamentary responsibility, and which will also be derived, counselor, to the presupposition of the Generality of Catalonia. On 16 September, the Council of State Guarantees approved in its plenary session this draft budget, and the Union of Accounts and Syndicate of Greuges did so on 14 September, with some variations that are, in the Council of State Guarantees, 0,05_per_cent compared to 2020, and placed us in an import of 3,420.030,01_euros. The Union of Accounts, with a variation of 7.06_per_cent, basically in Chapter I, which increases by 3.95_per_cent for the provision of 133 places in the current job placement relationship and stands at 12.920.000_euros. And the heavyweight union, with an increase of 3.65_per_cent, in an import that stands at 7.065,000_euros. All these data from the assumptions, also exposed and approved by the Expanded Bureau, also from the same September 28, 2021 here in Parliament. This is the presentation of the presupposition of 2022 and, therefore, to be arranged. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.3.0	Thank you very much. This presentation of the draft assumptions on the part of the first vice-president will then be completed and the interventions of the parliamentary groups who have asked us to do so will be heard. [[Pause.]] We will start with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. The word has the Lord Óscar Ordeig. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do they not request intervention? [[Pause.]] So we shall proceed to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, why ask me the word Mr. Juvillà?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.4.0	We do demand intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.5.0	Perfect. Okay. Therefore, they call for the intervention of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the Mixed Group and the Common Group We can. [[Alejandro Fernàndez Álvarez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Fernández?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.6.0	Yes, thank you, President. We don't ask for intervention. Yes, we asked for a separate vote from the Greuges Synod, the Presuppost.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.7.0	Perfect. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.8.0	In fact, it was for the same, to ask for a separate vote from the three bodies, from point 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.9.0	All three of you, perfect. Therefore, there would only be interventions, I understand, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In Comú they can also. Perfect. So I give the word to the VOX Parliamentary Group, to Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.10.0	To express our rebuff to this Pressupost of the Parliament, as we have expressed to the Enlarged Bureau. We are against this 2030 agenda, which is a globalist, ideological, progressive, and citizen-damaging agenda. We understand that the analysis of the salary bracket shows that... the figures, that the women cover less in this Parliament. But don't worry, I'm sure it's because of the conditions they have nothing to do with sex. As for the increase of the presumption, it is a lack of respect for the citizen to pass another time to 64_million euros and 12_millions for those parliamentary groups. We'll recover the precarious levels of when we haven't recovered any detail in many social parties yet, and we're increasing our assumptions here. I think we should be ashamed of ourselves. And I'd recommend you get out of this house to talk to the citizens and tell the cares that we're increasing 4_million euros the assumptions of this house without detail, when they're going through a bad economic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.11.0	Then there's the word of Congressman Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.12.0	Very briefly, just to give the position of vote before these assumptions and to ratify our not what we did to the Enlarged Bureau, our vote against. We, and I don't think it's anything new, we've always shown up for the downsizing of deputies and deputies. We cover a very good self; in fact, we cover a pastel, ladies and gentlemen, and we believe that they are too much in relation to what the vast majority of the people of our country perceive. Remember that the average salary in Catalonia in 2019 is 23,000 euros in gifts, 29,000 euros in men. Now I was looking..., the 90th percentile is 46,000 euros, compared to us, with deputies and deputies, which we cover from midjana 70,000 euros. And, so, we understood, so... and we've always understood and asked repeatedly for this subsidence. In fact, last year we registered a motion asking for the 14_per_cent drop; it was not possible. In any case, it was asked and approved to incorporate regular diets, as explained earlier by the Vice-President of the Bureau, who is currently covered by the procedure, which the Member is now collecting, doing or not doing. He agreed to this regularization. That's... that's true, we've put ourselves on the table and I want to say it, it's just right to say it, but we do understand that it's a topic that's been on the table for a long and long time, that now, so, to solve it, that now, cook-currents, so, it doesn't seem to have resolved. But the thing that worries us the most, the one that worries us the most is that what we want is that those under which they are regularized..., this IRPF that we would have to pay, we understand, the Members and Members that we collect enough money to do it, I ended up paying the Parliament of Catalonia, and, therefore, all the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, we understand that this... that it is important, it is necessary, that these displacement diets that are covered, whether or not they are done, are paid according to their realization. This day is a clam. You can't go on with this. But we also understand that those diets that are regularized, that will, therefore, become part of the self, this IRPF must go to the office of the deputy, because we collect enough money to do it. So, as long as we have these..., we ask again for this wage reduction, and ours will not be, because this transitory arrangement as it explained, this transitory arrangement as it is to allow this to be regularized, it is not converted into a sub-punch through the back door. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.13.0	Thank you. And then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.14.0	Thank you very much. We believe that there are important advances in this premise. Just that of the 2030 Agenda, the incorporation of the 2030 Agenda, because, moreover, we are in a global emergence and we believe that it is a global agenda of minimums, in reality, and therefore, as a minimum, incorporate this. The incorporation of the gender perspective. And I'm sure that this will help us a lot to analyze why this salary bracket, that it certainly does have a lot to see with the fact of women's difficulties accessing command places, and that many times it's one of the reasons for this generation. But as it has already been said before – and we have also expressed it at the Expanded Table – we have many doubts as to how we want to implement this transfer from everything we have collected for many years as a mobilization diet when it wasn't, when it was actually a covert self. We believe that this step has to be taken, that it is necessary to do so, but it has not just been made clear to us what the system is and how it is intended to be done, and we do not think that this will mean an increase in Parliament's expenditure, indeed. The Enlarged Bureau was told that this was an agreement that had yet to be reached with the groups. We thought we'd take this deal and we could work it out before the premise was approved. There was no contact, there was no contact, we were left with the first information to be given. And for this reason, before this failure to agree and to be able to speak to find a way out that would satisfy all groups, we move from abstention to voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Segovia. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote on the draft budget for the Catalonian Parliament for 2022. The vote begins. The draft budget of the Catalonian Parliament was approved by 102 votes to 28 with 3 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the separate vote, as requested, of the draft assumptions of the Board of Statutory Guarantees, Union of Accounts and Syndicate of Greuges. We're voting for the Board of State Guarantees. The vote begins. The draft budget for the Council of State Guarantees was approved with 111 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 12 abstentions. We are now voting on the draft assumptions of the Union of Accounts. The vote begins. The draft budget of the Union of Auditors was approved with 111 votes in favour, 11 against and 12 abstentions. We will now vote on the draft assumptions of the heavyweight union. The vote begins. The draft budget for the heavy goods trade union was approved with 105 votes in favour, 14 against and 15 abstentions. [[Project for the creation of the Complementary Risk Fund of the Government of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[200-00001/13]] Let's move on to the next item on the agenda, which will be, because item number 6 we have jointly substantiated, the item set on the agenda, the debate on the totality of the draft law of creation of the supplementary fund of risks of the Government of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, the Councillor of Economy and History, Mr. Jaume Giró, will present this legislative initiative. You've got the word, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.16.0	Good morning. Many honourable President, Councillor, Members, Members, on 29 July this Parliament approved the Decree of 6 July of 15/2021 on the creation of the Generality's Risks Supplementary Fund. The same day, and in accordance with Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, it approved its processing as a bill. All of you know, therefore, what the content of this bill is, since we had a chance to talk about it in the validation panel. That is why, if I may, I will be brief and will only recall the main features of the content of this bill, as well as the favourable opinion of the Council of State Guarantees of 29 July, which confirmed its legal strength. I told you at the time, this decree is only a legal and political response to restore the presumption of innocence to the joint positions of public officials and public servants of the Generality. In the face of the persecution of public servants for their work at the service of the Government and the country, we have a mechanism that allows us to guarantee the restoration of freedom in order to be able to take political action in Catalonia without reason. This bill aims to guarantee and protect the right to compensation of all public servants and does so through the creation of a complementary risk fund that covers judicial or administrative complaints that are made to public workers while there is no firm court ruling. This fund, as you know, has an initial contribution of 10_million euros that will be updated annually depending on the needs and the liquidations that have taken place. The coverage of the fund is for all persons who have or have had the status of staff in the Generality Administration and in the bodies and bodies of its public sector, the senior officials and members of the Government of the Generality of Catalonia. And public workers can only benefit from the coverage of this fund under very concrete conditions: whenever there is no firm judicial resolution declaring the actions carried out unlawful; when the risk is not covered by the insurance policy subscribed to by the Government of Catalonia or by some public sector entity; and when the Government has not initiated any action against the person concerned, no disciplinary or sanctioning procedure or judicial procedure for claiming civil liability. The bill envisages that while it is not the managing entity of this fund, its management can temporarily assume the Catalan Institute of Finance. And it also contemplates that the guarantee of the foundation will be maintained until there is a firm sentence and all judicial and judicial appeals have been exhausted. If these lives are exhausted and the existence of accounting or civil liability is confirmed, the beneficiary will have to return the money, as well as the interests and expenses that have been generated because of the guarantees made to the fund. In relation to the alternative text submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, tell them that we can expect you to present an alternative text that collects the recommendations of the Council of State Guarantees, since they themselves had requested the opinion of the Council of Guarantees. They must remember that citizens, together with the Joint Group, as did the Parliamentary Group of the PSC and Units for Progress, requested the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees and that it was very clear in its conclusions, all adopted unanimously. I want to take advantage here today to thank the PSC group for its predisposition and its always positive and favorable attitude to hear the reasons behind this decree. In summary, as you will recall, the Board of Guarantees endorsed the legal soundness of the decree, which is what it posed in question, its legal soundness. The advice of the Guarantee Board did recommend the processing of the law decree as a draft law, precisely, so that some changes are incorporated to improve its drafting and regulatory quality. I, in particular, said the opinion,'so as to expressly escape certain doubts arising from the current wording. And that was precisely the reason why I understand that most of the groups in this chamber voted in favour of its processing as a bill, so that they could incorporate the recommendations of the State Guarantee Board. Now, the alternate text of Citizens doesn't go that way. They want to load the main objective of the Supplementary Risk Fund, which is the return of the coverage that before the year 2017, and concretely before October 2017, had the insurance policies of the Generality. Some insurance policies, the same ones, with the same coverages that also have other communities of the State, and curiously, for example, in Andalusia, on Citizens rule with the PP. On this alternative text of Citizens, there will be no mass, because, as I have already said, it completely distorts the main objective of the supplementary fund of Risks. Allow me to comment on just three questions of respect. The first: don't get along [[the adviser of the SEGA]] – Pardon – for what reason certain persons who are or have been in the service of the Administration and who precisely prior to the 17th year, the date on which the change in the positioning of insurance companies is produced, could be left covered by those groups. It is contradictory to invoke the restoration of compensation after limiting it from the subjective perspective. Second consideration: one thing is the regulation of the fund and another of different legal rules from the representation and defence of the Generality, which, as you will understand, correspond to the members of the Advocate of the Generality and which has no relation to the existence and applicability of this fund. And the third: they do not understand why the presumption of innocence is not respected, which is maintained while the administrative and judicial resolutions are not firm, denying the possibility of enjoying coverage of any liability until this firm is produced. I'm done. Now that we have seen what the consequences have been after October 17 – the arrest and exile of the Government, of a whole government of '1 October and of the President of the Parliament, the disqualifications of President Torra and members of the Bureau of the Parliament, repression and persecution, the sound and media intoxication – a glimpse, vivid and sensed feeling of injustice and defence in which these people have been found to develop the task that they were in charge of since this Parliament, I think the reasons and the reasons that inspired the decree are more felt than ever before. If we from the government and from this chamber do not give protection to the presumption of innocence of our public servants, who want to enter, then, in these moments of history, any responsibility for public service? [[Greetings.]] For this reason, in defense of freedom, in defense of the professionalism of the workers of the Generality and of the public charges and charges, always be faithful in the defense of our institutions and of its people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. All the while, for the defense of the speech to the totality presented with alternative text for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.18.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... Thank you, Mr Giró; among other things, for your explanations, but also for giving me the opportunity, to open the way for me to make an intervention, obviously, based on our proposal for an alternative text to your draft law, but also an intervention that I am sure the President of Parliament will also be presenting, so let us say to her, the possible digressions that each of you considers opportune to make in the context of the debate, in the sense that you spoke of the U d'Octubre, the prison, the exiles, the alleged political prisoners and the supposed exiles, etc. So I want to start my intervention by explaining that yesterday, when I started preparing for this intervention, I thought that Catalonia really lived very complicated time from the point of view of institutional respect, of respect for democracy, of respect for what a public servant must be, of respect for that conception of politics as a public service to citizenship and not as a way of enriching or imposing political objectives at the conjunction of citizenship, completely lacking the elements that a modern constitutional democracy like ours poses to our abyss. And from this point of view, he thought of what he had experienced in the morning at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, where a group of constitutionalist students of the association ended up suffering the settlement, the attack of separatist radicals who called them "out of our university for the fact that they had laid a tent in which they simply defended their vision of the university and of Catalan society. As other university groups, as well as other university associations, the students of S'Filet defended, therefore, a proposal of an open, cosmopolitan Catalan society, in freedom, with equality, and they suffered an asset from which they were victims without any support, without any support on the part of the institutions of government of the Autonomous University of Barcelona. Which, of course, to us as a political party makes it very clear to us that we will come to the end in all that are required of political responsibility of these representatives of the governing bodies of the Autonomous University, of the Autonomous University, and we also announce, already, that we will file a complaint before the prosecutor's office for the inaction of the Council of the Government of the Autonomous Region and for the inaction of its rector. Yesterday, the truth seemed to me sad, like the city of Catalonia, to see young, young students who shouted with hatred outside the university, who shouted, insulted and denied their companions – their companions–, I remember, people with whom they studied in the same classrooms, people with whom they shared feasts, people with whom they shared concerns like young people, and, on the other hand, what they did was insult them and make them out of the university to defend their ideas. I think that proves that we in Catalonia have a real problem with freedom. I remember you do... [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.19.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, I don't have to remind you of Article 88 of the consistency of the debates and, please, that it is at the point we need to talk about. Four minutes ago... four minutes ago...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.20.0	Yes, but the Mr. Turned... the Mr. Turned on the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.21.0	Mr. Giró has served a minute of his time, you are at door four. And he knows perfectly well that what we are debating is the totality debate of the draft law of the creation of the supplementary fund of risks of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.22.0	Perfect. Here again we see how the presidency of this institution is exercised. But in any case, we are talking about our alternate text. Miri, Mr. Giró, said that our alternate text, our totality and our alternate text to the bill that you present completely distorts the object of the fund. Indeed, what our group is calling for is to avoid impunity, is to avoid this ransom to those who have committed serious crimes against our legal order or those who are prosecuted for committing criminal offences that are contrary to the constitutional order and above all those committed with negligence. We, with our text, thought that in a context like the present it was essential to have a proactive attitude, a constructive attitude. You were presenting a text, first a decree and then a bill of law, which was clearly contrary to any normal bureaucratic institutional logic in a democratic state of law. What they intended was to defend the actions of politicians that they decided – know it, with all their conscience – to skip the legal marks, to skip what the State says, what the Constitution says, what the laws say, in short, that they have to govern the conjunction of our coexistence and they decided to make an ad hoc decree to protect them from the action of justice. That's why you're going unpunished. That's why you're arbitrariness. This is why an absolute misuse of public institutions has taken place. And we, from Ciutadans, want precisely that the citizens of Catalonia can see their rights protected. These moneys that have served the previous governments of the Generality for their identity projects – which I will not now catalogue in any other way than this, "identity projects", which are in this case, moreover, for their actions – not for their ideas, for their actions –, totally outside our democratic order, our legal order..., are making use of moneys that are from the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia, which represent the different parties that are here: the PSC, Citizens, VOX, the CUP, you, Juntes per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana. And no one, I don't think anyone, who doesn't like the city of Catalonia, likes that its rulers misrepresent public money, in any case misrepresent public money for purposes that are not among the democratic order, the legal order. Among other things, because these moneys could be used for other things. So, effectively, we want to protect the working people, we want to protect..., and we make it very clear that our intention is that the running people, the working people and the working people in the positions that they have commands and that they may not be covered by the policies of which you spoke of assurances that the Government of Catalonia subscribes, they must be covered by this law, by this bill of law with our alternate text, obviously. But who doesn't have to be covered is the policy that is self-erected by representing the people and saying that their will is over the law, over the equality between citizens and over, ultimately, the general interest. That ruler who says that "my partisan interest is all-embracing, must be above any other consideration, I think he cannot be covered in the administration's way, which he is attacking with his actions. Therefore, to rescue a politician who attacked the interest of the Government of Catalonia is obviously contrary to the general interest of the citizens of Catalonia, to the interest, to the common good of the citizenship of our community. And that's why we want to need very clearly who is to be the subject that is protected by this law. And it seems to me very well to protect the official who does not act with any obvious intent or who does not act with conscious negligence, but who can commit some act that is ultimately a fault or that is contrary to our democratic order, but who does so without bad faith. Those who act by skipping the law, skipping the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, undermining our institutions, undermining the Court of Auditors and the conjunction of our democratic order, I believe that they should not be protected by the conjunction of the citizenry. You can be very happy with your actions, with the performance of the previous government, you can applaud, but in any case, your parties are paid for. They don't have to force the citizens of Catalonia, the assembly of the citizens of Catalonia to pay contrary acts no longer only to our interests, because, of course, it is obvious that their objectives..., everything that has to do with the international propaganda of the process, everything that has to do with the machinery of internal and external propaganda that has created separatism to the spur of the separatist process, man, I think you may say that it is for their interest, you may say that it is for the sake of what you understand from Catalonia, but there are many people in these suspicions that it is all the contrary: that it is contrary to the common good, that it is contrary to the general interest of the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, as the Supreme Court points out, if public employees suffer harm or harm in the performance of their service without guilt or negligence, they must be rescued, effectively. But not members of the government who act conscientiously against the general interests of the citizens of Catalonia. Therefore, from our perspective, in our alternative text they are expressly excluded from the subject area of this foundation all those who from their name to political designation..., possible functioning, high offices and members of the Government. It seems to me to be a common sense that I think to most of the citizens of Catalonia, if we did a little more pedagogy and explained what exactly this background is, that I would call it "recovery fund to the authors of the coup d'état that the citizens of Catalonia suffered in the 17th year, so I believe that to most of the citizens of Catalonia it would seem a scandal to the fact that it is intended to rescue those who have attacked the general interest of the Catalans. And, moreover, there is an argument that you say with absolute naturality that you will scatter me, counselor, and with all respect: I am surprised that you tell us that if the Generality does not denounce or is not presented as an accusation against persons who have committed such criminal acts or presumed criminal acts, then there is nothing to say. No, man, of course, it's that we're talking... this, let's just say, is the fifth essence of arbitrariness – it's the fifth essence of arbitrariness. As you rule, you can do whatever you give them will. Now, if one day the constitutionalist parties manage to confiscate a majority of government and govern Catalonia, it is obvious that the Generality will present to defend the general interest of the citizens of Catalonia against the actions that the Catalans suffered on the 17th. Therefore, I believe that the legal certainty with this bill that you present is very much touched, very badly. From this point of view, I believe that we must bear in mind that the object of the Law of Creation of the Supplementary Risk Fund of the Generality in order to meet the legal obligations which correspond to it in relation to the risks not covered by the insurance policies of civil and property liability underwritten by the Generality of Catalonia for the losses which may affect the persons covered by this Law..., I believe that this fund does not have to have any initial endowment. The normal thing – and I think that this is an interesting element of our law that I am surprised that we do not value positively – is that, in view of having an initial endowment that is likely to be used arbitrarily for the government to return..., whatever it is, Mr Giró, because you think that this bill that you present if... I look, I am proud that in many moments of history our community has been at the forefront, has been at the forefront in legislative reforms, in economic progress, in social progress, of the Espanya conjunction, and, therefore, Catalonia, effectively... Not now, unfortunately – since a few years ago, this has gone into horror – but for some years now, Catalonia has been at the forefront of our country, in fact, being a pioneer. But imagine that your proposal for a bill to rescue, in short, the assets of people like those who went to the democracy of the 17th, the fessin of other communities, like now the Community of Madrid with Gürtel or Andalusia with the ERES. That would be the most absolute arbitrariness. It would really be a kingdom of taifes, but taifes, let's face it, embezzlers. Therefore, I am concerned that this example that you may at some point be able to give is an absolute arbitrariness on the part of the public authorities. I think we need to avoid arbitrariness. It's got to be one of the phonative elements. It is not only a constitutional and statutory principle, the prohibition of the arbitrariness of public powers, but I believe it must be a democratic and moral requirement of our rulers. For this reason we have proposed, in Article 4 of our alternative text, that in the accounts of being the politicians who decide which one should be the endowment of this foundation to rescue – I insist – you will function that they do not commit criminal acts, doloously or negligently – but not policies; from the standpoint of the ways, policies that exercise power in an arbitrary way – we thought that it would be interesting, in our Article 4 of our alternative text, to create a commission evaluating risks not covered by public employees for insurance policies. Above all, because we believe that there is an absolute abandonment, in some cases, of some public officials; among others, our suffering members of the State Security and Security Forces – in this case, the Squadron Mosses – that many times they are left, totally abandoned by the Generality at the time of their request, to demand that they be rescued, for example, the damage they may have suffered in the exercise of their public office. As public servants, the Mosses need it, they demand it, and I think it's just and it's a moral and democratic requirement to give this coverage to public servants like now the Mosses of the Squadron in questions like this. Therefore, we are asking for the creation of this risk assessment board in which there are present..., you are composed, this committee, by a career officer attached to the body competent in the matter of insurance of the Department of Economics and History, a career officer belonging to the General Staff of the General Staff, a career officer belonging to the General Staff of the General Staff and, lastly, a career officer attached to the body competent in the matter of public service. We believe, in short, that our alternate text is much more respectful of the democratic state of law; it is much more respectful of this principle of prohibition of the arbitrariness of public powers. And precisely, what we avoid with this is that there is a rescue – because there is no other way to say, a rescue – to the strikers, a rescue to those who gave a shot against our democracy, a shot against our legal order on the 17th, and which shows very little respect for the democratic principle on the part of you presenting this project. You are surprised – you say, Mr. Giró – that insurers are no longer so easy to secure the Generality with people. Go on, I think that when a person spends his or her life making speeches against legal order, against political stability, against legal security, it is normal that in the end those who have to ensure with their money the responsibilities in which they can shorten the policies of the Generality, it is normal, if not otherwise, that they doubt much at the time of providing these assurances. Therefore, we believe that we are proposing a constructed text, a purpose and that we hope that we will receive the support of the groups of the chamber. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.23.0	Then, in order to position themselves, the rest of the parliamentary groups will intervene, starting with the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. Mr Jordi Riba has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.24.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, Madam President, deputies, deputies, councillor. As the councillor has explained, today begins the processing of the draft law creating this Generality Risks Supplementary Fund and the debate on the topic to the totality with alternative text presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Our group abstained in the validation of the decree in plenary on 29 July and we would like to ask for its processing as the draft law, as it is today, with the aim of incorporating in its processing the considerations and recommendations which the Council of State Guarantees included in its opinion, and to which I shall refer later. The position of our group, as discussed in that debate, is clearly and clearly in favour of establishing mechanisms to ensure and provide coverage to public servers in the responsibilities that may arise from the exercise of their functions or responsibilities. And this is the basic principle in which our position is based respecting this issue. Also, it is important to remember why we find ourselves before the need to create and establish this mechanism. The reason for creating this complementary risk fund is that the ordinary or non-complementary system does not work. There are no insurers who want to ensure these risks. They cannot bid on insurance policies for the Directorate of the Government of Catalonia, as they had not been before 2017. And this is the motive, the question of funds, why we find ourselves with the need to articulate this mechanism. Let me begin, therefore, by referring to this aspect, that along with the epic with which it was intended to cover the conjunction of this background or of the assertions that, in the debate on the validation of the decree of July law, both the deputy Artadi, of Juntes per Catalunya, such as the spokesman of Esquerra Republicana, the deputy Vilalta, with regard to this background was the answer to the supposed repression, that it was a measure to deal with anti-repressive measures to the persecution of the State, or that in a normal country and a normal parliament this would have been a technical debate, the fact that we find ourselves at the heart of the processing of this draft law, as in the validation of the decree, before the necessity, that the delay in the process of this process of the law, as well as in the delay in the validation of the decree, occurred. Also in the coverage of the assurances contracted for the Generalitat, which they provide, in this sense, the coverage to public servers. The risks covered by this fund were covered by the policy that I have just commented on, and in the line that Mr. Counselor gave before, that today we are restoring a mechanism. So before we had it covered. As I said, this policy existed, the Generality had contracted, but..., and I literally read the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which indicates that the contract of the policy was terminated unilaterally by the insurer on October 11, 2017, and the opinion precisely cites the reference of the insurance company, which gave« as a result of the very serious worsening of the risk caused by recent events in Catalonia. Therefore, this rescission fundamentally affected the subject area of coverage – that is, to whom it covers, to whom it covered, better said, this assurance – expel the senior officials and the members of the government and exclude the coverage of the accounting responsibility of these. This and no other – and no other epic relation regarding repression or persecution that we so often resort to or resort to – is the origin of the need for the creation of this foundation. And, as I said, one thing that's broken and has to be hooked never stays exactly the same as the original was. In this case, the mechanism to recompose the level of coverage cannot simply go through to bid a new policy – it would certainly not present a bidder – but we must resort to creating a mechanism, such as this, which by means of the system of endorsements allows or facilitates the legal and economic coverage of the senior officials before provisional measures – and this is a particularly important point – in terms of responsibilities that may have been incurred in the exercise of their functions. We are not talking – and I refer in this sense to the intervention that preceded me – about convictions. We are talking about provisional measures, therefore, on the assumption of the presumption of innocence, without there being any final resolution. The position of our group, therefore, I reiterate, is in favour of the existence of this coverage for public servants, all public servants, both senior officials with the coverage of civil responsibility, property and accounting that will provide this foundation, as we also speak of the complete legal defense of the Mossos d'Esquadra. So, all of them. Also those senior officials who may have been affected by processes during the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, in which the Generality has not had this coverage. Everyone, I insist, the public servants understand that they must be properly covered, that they guarantee the exercise of their functions. Our group requested in July the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees in relation to the adequacy of the decree to the Spanish Constitution and to the Statute of Autonomy, in concrete terms for which it refers to the processing as decreed by law and whether it is involved in the use of a single law or of a single case. The Council's opinion is favourable to respect, even though, as I said, it affects the need to improve the rule in aspects such as the processing of requests, the functions of the Catalan Institute of Finance and, above all, the mechanism of return of money by the public servant in the event that there is ultimately a conviction. Since our parliamentary group we have insisted quite on the need to have a red line in the compliment of legality in the new stage we believe needs Catalonia. And consistent with this principle, as we have always done, the decisions of the State Guarantee Board are in this sense decisive, so that they are not binding. Respect. Respect for legality and the rule of law is a basic and fundamental element of democracy. A rule may more or less please us, we may be more or less in agreement with its content, whenever it is cenyeixi to the constitutional and statutari mark, but we do not share, in this sense, in absolute the position of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to say, as is the case with this rule: "I am against it because I believe that it contravenes the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy – for this reason I request at its moment the report of the Board of Guarantees Statutarias –, "but if this does not give me the reason, say, as Congressman Carrizosa said: "We do respect the content with regard to the constitutionality and the statutariatariness of the content of the laws, because that is the function of the Board of Guarantees Statutarias, but it is also true that the reports are not binding, and are not binding to you, but not to us. That is to say, end up, you end up in exactly the same wrong that you have done on repeated occasions the independent parties respect the consideration about the Council's dictates. Two strokes of the same coin. The expression to the totality with alternative text of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans is, therefore, an expression of this: no longer does they like the rule because they consider it to be constitutional or non-constitutional, but they directly disagree with the criteria of giving legal and economic coverage to all public servants, including senior officials and members of the Government. The alternative text that you are planting provides, in great detail, for the removal from the point of view of the subject area, the high levels of the Administration; it proposes to leave the fund without economic endowment and eliminates the cover of civil, property and accounting responsibility. Go on, it's almost like going to buy a car and asking him to get the wheels, the steering wheel and the gearbox; it wouldn't do us any good. These exclusions are not attributable to a legal or legal issue, they are a question of criteria, of political position. And you end up running, paradoxically, in a proposal for an alternative text that would end up feeling, yes, a proposal for a singular law; in this case not for which I include, but for which I exclude: "All but these, because they do not like me or do not like me well. We share the criteria set out in the opinion, in which the State Council is to act in accordance with this question with a generalizing vocation of the concept of public servers without exclusions or exceptions and in accordance with Article 14f of the Basic Statute of the Public Employment in which the right of public servers to protection is established. It seems appropriate that the draft law is passed on the basis of Decree 15/2021, bearing in mind that we believe in the criteria of restoring a mechanism that gives legal and economic coverage, as it did, to all public servants, including, therefore, the high levels of the General Administration, in the face of interim measures – emphasising new interim measures – and while there is no firm judicial resolution declaring the actions unlawful. It seems to us that in the process of the draft law it is better and resolves the points noted for the advice of the Council of State Guarantees respect – these measures or corrections – the procedure administered with regard to the request for the use of the non-automatic fund, but by means of the corresponding request and the favourable or not the same resolution, respect the provisional functions of the Catalan Institute of Finance, and above all respect the definition and realization of the mechanisms of return of the fund by that public server on which, if made use, a firm judgment is returned. For all these reasons, the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress will be countered to the challenge of totality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.25.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, Mr Andrés Bello has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen... Let us return to this Parliament once again to deal with one of the issues of greatest concern to secessionist politicians, which is to spend the money of all Catalans on their separatist objective, even if it is a clear violation of the law, but – but – avoiding the consequences of their actions. In this case, they have taken one more step, as they propose that we support these consequences for all Catalans. Last July, the Government of the Government of Catalonia brought to this Parliament a decree law to create a fund with public money. As the Councillor acknowledged, the aim was to pay the bonds imposed on a good number of separatist politicians, not another. Today it brings the same proposal, but in the form of a bill. With this change of procedure they are only trying to save their personal responsibility by approving this action, which is clearly immoral and illegal. And they probably also want to cover their future responsibilities, because it seems that this Government is going to follow the same path of non-compliance with the law, unfortunately. Let's see some of the things that this set of separatist politicians have done that are required to be held accountable for: unjustified payments, lack of supporting documentation of expenditure, irregularities in budgetary settlement procedures, irregularities in contracts...In general, allocate public resources to activities linked to the routing process that exceed their competences. This includes contracts with international entities, miscellaneous expenses, travel, hotels, the purchase of a mobile phone for a person who is not part of the Administration, conferences, dinners with foreign journalists, book presentations and a longet cetera. The Court of Auditors has quantified, as we know, these misdemeanours in EUR 5,4_million, which must be returned by those who spent them unduly. Let's imagine that a similar situation took place outside the political sphere, huh? In life... out there. For example, this very thing, that happens in a company, in an association of any kind; choose the one you want: from neighbors, ecologist, a brotherhood, a castle necklace, an oenegé, a sports club..., anyone, the one you want, right? What would happen if a part of the partners discovers an irregular act such as this, the complaint to the competent body and the latter confirms the irregularity? Indeed, it is certain that the majority of shareholders, partners or members of this entity – whatever they have chosen – would demand the dismissal or resignation of those responsible and the restitution from their assets – i.e. their pocket – of the money spent irregularly. Does anyone doubt that this would be the least that would happen? I don't think so; no one doubts it. Now let's get back to the world of politics, in here again, shall we? , this world of politics which, unfortunately, has been dominated here in Catalonia by the nationalists for decades, as if it were their particular stumbling block, their cortijo or, given the place where we are, their masía. What response has been given by those responsible for this situation and by the secessionist political parties to which they belonged? Have you acknowledged the mistakes and asked for forgiveness from the citizens of Catalonia? No, no, Have they resigned irrevocably? Obviously, they haven't. Have they offered the restitution of the money spent irregularly? Come on, not only have they not done it, but they don't even think about it, and they want us to pay for it among all of us. Bearing in mind that those 5,4_million_de_euros were of all Catalans, what has the Government of the Generalitat done, which should represent us all Catalans? Have you claimed them from your party mates? No, he claims them from all of us. What they have done is that these consequences again fall on all Catalans by granting these bonds to the Generalitat budget. And in addition, we must do everything very quickly, because of the urgency procedure, it is not going to be that in that middle your separatist friends will suffer some harm. And these are the gentlemen who have been saying that Spain steals from us for years. No, gentlemen, the one who steals from us is not Spain, but the separatist politicians. [[applause]] , as has been shown today once again. From VOX we want to express our indignation at these shameful facts. We share the rattlesnake of the vast majority of the citizens of Catalonia. Every day we are seeing how from the Generalitat of Catalonia the money is wasted at hand full of political spending to defend its secessionist project instead of dedicating what really matters – security, health, education or housing – or to help the most disadvantaged people in this time of crisis, who have serious difficulties in reaching the end of the month and who are precisely the people most harmed by these policies of the separatists. But we are not going to stay here, we are going to defend legality, as we have done many other times with great success. We have lodged a complaint with the Office of the Prosecutor of the Court of Auditors. We have filed a criminal complaint with the Civil and Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, in exercise of the popular action against Don Pere Aragonès Garcia, Don Jaume Giró Ribas and Dona Laura Vilagrà Pons, for the possible commission of an offence of prevarication of article 404 of the Criminal Code and of embezzlement of public revenues of article 432 of the Criminal Code. In addition, we have brought an action for unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court, which has already been admitted to court. With regard to the amendment to the whole presented by Citizens, we believe that it is unnecessary. If there are uninsured risks for public employees that should be, they are not detailed. First of all, the existing insurance policies should be reviewed. I was surprised by what the advisor said earlier, recognizing that these risks that are apparently not insured, insurance companies do insure them elsewhere in Spain – I think he mentioned Andalusia – and not here. Why would it be? It's just that insurance companies don't trust their behavior either. Of course, we agree to abolish the Supplementary Risk Fund and return to the public purses the 10_million with which we are endowed. And that is why we oppose this bill today. But we believe that the inclusion of this point does not justify the elaboration of another law, with very little content, such as that proposed by Citizens. In conclusion, and in line with what has been said today and in the statement made on 29 July, we will vote 'no, as they had already imagined, on this bill and also on the amendment to the whole with alternative text. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.27.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mrs Eulàlia Reguant has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.28.0	Well, thank you. Good morning. Before we started: you always anti-fessed and, therefore, all the support for students that went to college last year stopped, once more, the fessism and expelled him from public universities in this country. [[Greetings.]] And when we got into the matter, today we're doing a debate that's already done, we did it at the end of July, and it's kind of absurd to do it again. The pose or pose on the table because Ciutadans needed to prove that it's built, when in the background it's not, because it absolutely changes the meaning of everything folded. So, it's because you have a little more minutes. So, we won't spend the two minutes. Just answer some of the things that came out. Mr. Martín Blanco, the blow to democracy was the application of 155. That's it, the coup to democracy: the application of 155, dismissing a government, closing a parliament. [[Greetings.]] That's the time for democracy. And just... as we did in July, we would vote against this whole thing, we would support this decree, because, as we said in July, when the government does what we're supposed to do. If the government wants to shield the Box with the Hard Rock, it wants to shield Foment with the expansion of the airport or with the Games, not there. If the government shields fundamental rights, there are. And we understand that with this decree I read one of the things that is done is to shield the rights of those who are seeing as, through unfair justice, to say it in some way, they see their rights violated. And to speak today of fundamental rights to the Catalan countries goes on to solve the central and profound question of the sovereignty expressed by mediating the right to self-determination, but also indestribably impinging on repression, to make this repression entailing resistance against institutions that systematically prevent the exercise of fundamental rights such as the right to self-determination. That's why, isn't it? We will hardly be able to recognize a full-fledged framework of phone-rights while the right to self-determination is not respected, while the law has not been repressed and all the rights violations caused by state violence have not been repaired. And this decree of the law, despite the limits it has, was an advent. And we said it in July: the government went late, went too late. Because that's what we knew would happen, and it can happen again; so we need to put down the tools so that we don't go back late and never see the situation that happened in July, that we think it was avoidable and that it wasn't positive for the country. So another time we repeat what we said in July: it is essential that there is an anti-repressive strategy based on unity and unconditional support for retaliated persons, in a legal strategy that includes the political perspective and with high doses of internationalization. In this they will find us; in everything that is not, it will be difficult for us to find ourselves while not respecting the fundamental rights. And, again, I repeat it as I have begun: the fundamental rights are defended, here in Parliament, but also in universities. And, therefore, the times that are needed – because I have seen that they have moved there –: anti-feixists, always. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.29.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.30.0	Well, good morning to all of you. Certainly, the debate at last we did before the summer holiday period, right? But it's true that we have to validate processing as a bill, and we have to position ourselves on the whole issue presented by the Citizens' Group. We have already moved forward, we will vote against the Ciutadans Group's move, because we understand that the alternative bill that they present does not solve the problem of funds that they intend to address the decree. On the contrary, we believe that it pushes down the freedom of action of public servers in the exercise of its function. I don't think it helps to give guarantees and protection in the exercise of its function, always starting from the presumption of innocence, from the presumption that they act in law. Therefore, it does not help this; on the contrary, it pushes down and places self-limitations to the exercise of this function that end up affecting the proper functioning of democracy and the proper functioning of the public sector in general, right? Therefore, we will not vote in favour, we will vote against the threat to the totality of the Ciutadans Group. We agree that the bill... we already placed it in the debate at its time, that the bill... well, that the decree would deal with it as the bill, because somehow we understand that, in one band, it would cover an existing void; that was the object of the bill. We understand that the need to give risk coverage from the creation of this fund..., to do so. So, say so, it seems correct to us. But we understand that I have to deal with it as a bill of law. It was also placed by the Council of Statutory Guarantees, which gave valid law decree in the background and form, but at the same time it was necessary to clarify some doubts and some questions. I think that legal processing should allow us to address, clarify these questions, and also allow us to make a more substantive debate than it happens, right? Therefore, in the project, in the legal process, we will have to see how we can improve the questions raised. Unfortunately, the project..., the decree, the presentation of the decree is presented as a reactive action in a given context, isn't it? because of the need to respond to the Court of Auditors' attack: delegitimised in its composition, partial in its action, unfair in its decision. A court of accounts that seems more to act in political intervention, rather than, say, in the validation of the economic management of the generality's accounts, in the measure that the challenge is the compliment of statutory mandates in the generality's external action. From this point of view, we understand that before this there is a reactive action of the government that ends up translating into this project, well, of law, say, into this decree, right? But still, I wouldn't want to obviate three criticisms that the government has made, because all that is necessary is the law decree, and therefore make it..., or finally we can substantiate it, which is true that the presentation of the law decree also shows the evil government with which we carry years installed in this country, right? Because the decree proves three questions. There is a reactive action before a given fact, which is the decision, the resolution of the Court of Auditors. We need to do this, okay, but listen, we have a problem since the year 2017: that we knew that insurance policies left people, employees and public employees, public servants, high offices, advisors, workers and public workers at different levels to be discovered. They were at the discovery since 2017, which were invalidated by these insurance policies. From 2017 to 2021, four years passed, and the government did not act. It acts solely and exclusively in response to an external action, when its obligation was to age in every and every moment for the maximum protection of public employees and employees, as high as possible, as normal workers and workers. They couldn't stay at the discovery for four years. Okay, now we're gonna cover this void, but it didn't work out. We must recognize that there is a bad government when, for four years, the unprotected people are left behind and only act when they fall, corrected. In this way, in the form of a decree of law, obeying the Generality, too, to make more profound debates on this. And that connects with the second critical or second evidence of bad governance that we carry many years in this country. We don't have any law of Catalan public service. We do not have a law of Catalan civil service and we have a regime for a legislative decree of the year 1997. We have the EBP, yes, the Basic Staff of the Public Employment, which acts in a subsidiary way as the law of the Catalan civil service, because we have voluntarily renounced to regulate the Catalan civil service. We are from the few autonomous communities that have not regulated their own public function, or because they do not believe the public service, and therefore the role and function of public officials, or simply because they delegate responsibility for the regulation of public function to state law. We have a problem here, here we have an element with the government. The lack of law in Catalonia's civil service also shows, from many years ago, that we are not doing the things that are close to us well, are we? And the third criticism, which I also believe is the evidence of bad governance, is the Matussera presentation that was made of the law decree, laying in the center of the political and public debate the paper of the Catalan Institute of Finance, when the foundation of the law decree was not the paper of the Catalan Institute of Finance. The Catalan Institute of Finance was a contingent element, it was not the necessary element. The necessary element was the creation of the foundation. The Catalan Institute of Finance acted here as a contingent element in the event that there were no other instruments, but we put in the center of the debate the Catalan Institute of Finance, mistaking its image and, therefore, also mistaking the public function that must be done, because we all aspire..., all of us do not know, but we aspire, in some way or other, that the Catalan Institute of Finance follows the driving force of a future, a possible public bank that can act with the characteristics of professionalism, independence, etcetera, that would correspond to this figure. We're sick of his image, and that's gonna be hot, too, somehow, I mean, right? But also the criticisms, these three criticisms, which I believe are important, because I believe that they must be pointed out by the Government in its own existence and stop acting as a bad government and understand that the public function must regulate it, that it is not possible to leave the public servers and servers, independently of the level they occupy on the climb, it cannot be left unprotected at any time, and that it must be done with regard to how we communicate things in order not to put at the center of the political criticism certain instruments that correspond to us in the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia to make strategic transformations of the foundations, such as the issue of the Catalan Institute of Finance..., despite these criticisms, we understand that it is a necessity to create the foundation. And so, say, the creation of this fund that covers the risks, will warm up, say, approach it, won't it? There is a reality, therefore, that places the law decree that we have to validate in the parliamentary procedure, in the procedure of the debate on the bill, which is the answer to this problem, and somehow improve the wording of the law decree, also in the questions already placed by the appropriate Council of State Guarantees, right? , finish clearing up some things. And then, too, I think we just need to dig deeper into why from 2017 insurance companies have given up covering all the risks they face to public servers and servers. And possibly the government also needs to understand that its relationship with the government, in this case as the contractor of insurance policies, has to demand from insurance companies a different ethical behavior, a behavior corresponding to the full democracy of this country and with the full guarantees of public servants in the exercise of its function. And, therefore, we may need to discuss the premiums that cover these insurance companies, the conditions that we place on them, and, at the very least, we may need to consider whether it is the best way to contract these insurance companies from the lines that we have contracted them, or simply to lay them down certain conditions in the measure that they do not want to fulfill their democratic obligations to the function of public servers and servers, right? Therefore, for all this, too, we will vote against the threat to the totality presented by the Ciutadans Group, because we believe that it is not at the root of the problem, on the contrary, the pain, because it also leaves people and self-limits unprotected in the exercise of their public function. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.31.0	Next and on behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word Mr.Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.32.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very briefly. Firstly, to ratify us in the arguments we put forward in the previous debate, which are, in essence and in summary, three. You put the institutions and their resources at the service of embezzlers. That is, the entire citizenship must pay for the illegalities of a few. Secondly, we would be faced with an embezzlement of embezzlement. That is, they do not protect officials from future risks, but they whitewash past crimes with everyone's money. It has nothing to do with it. And thirdly, as a result of the previous two, you commit a book law fraud, in addition to using honest officials, who are the vast majority in this house, as an alibi for your illegalities. That's the summary of the matter. I think our position is clear. And in relation to the alternative proposal of the Citizens' Group, I want to publicly acknowledge that it is working and with the will of rigour, and would be reasonable in a situation of normality. But this is not the case. And no matter how hard it may be and the profile it may develop, they'd already find the curfew to breach the law the trilers we have around here zascandilele, and, frankly, I think it would be totally counterproductive. And in the present circumstances we do not consider it appropriate to put forward an instrument of this nature and we perceive in its proposal a certain point of naivety; goodwill, but naivety. Therefore, we will not be able to support you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.33.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good day. I'll start at the end: we'll vote no. We will vote that no, because the Citizens' Group, apart from the complaint to the prosecution, with this goal to the totality what it does is a retail and hooked. Actually, more of a flap than you don't hook, like it's been thought, huh? Withdraw the benefits of this responsibility support, therefore, the high-level, possible functioning and government members, as if they were not worthy to represent the Administration, as if they were not public servants. No initial endowment, take the accounting risk. Nor do we know why, because other governments from other regions to which they support..., says: «Action of accounting liability: the insurer will assume any loss that the insured has to satisfy for an act derived from accounting liability that results from its procedure..., blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So, it's good that he's not looking with the same vision, depending on whose region or whose identity he takes at every moment, isn't it? Also, the presumption of innocence is either removed or removed, because it says that acts that may consist of alleged crimes are excluded. Therefore, no firm feeling. Therefore, the presumption of innocence also carries it. In fact, we are going to validate this bill following, too, the compromise, therefore, to incorporate in it what the advice of the Board of State Guarantees says, huh? And, in fact, so, too, as the councillor pointed out in his presentation to July, convinced of his statutory and constitutional compliment. And, in fact, the advice of the Guarantee Board says: "This fund can promote the legitimate exercise of self-government, especially in matters where there has been a clear level of competition conflict. Therefore, the essence of the issue is that there are competition conflicts with the State that are intended to be resolved through, for example, the intervention of a court of law such as the Court of Auditors. In fact, I repeat a sentence, which I believe summarizes the essence of this bill, of the advisor Giró. He said: "It is a fund," he said in July, "to give security to those who make a public service, to provide a mechanism to guarantee the restoration of freedom to exercise political action in Catalonia; a fund of guarantees against corruption. And that's very hard, having to talk about democracy, huh? The period of the year 2017. Why is there a state that doesn't care that you have organized a democratic referendum, a vote of '1 October. And the reaction of the State in multiple hands, one of them is to do it through the judicial arm, to do it through some constitutionalist parties or similar to the rule, to do it through the courts of accounts, to do it through the supreme courts. It's the state of por. They want to hold us for por. And that's sad in the 21st century, in democracy and in Europe – it's sad. We are not an advanced democracy in Spain – we are not. They want to be a democracy of por. And, therefore, the judiciary is politically used to pursue political dissent. These judicial bodies have been acted as a branch of the State; the public prosecutor's office, and the Court of Auditors, an organ, as in the past, of a court-ordered political nomination. And here's where we're going to get to the bottom of what's been debated today: we have a set of other charges, former charges, ex-charges accused by the Court of Auditors, for this paralegal, for having made his pocket, his job, which they had democratically committed through elections, huh? I want to do it legally. Here we have already listened, from parties, as we say, to the rule, various times, to the threats of the prosecution and to bring it to the Supreme and a criminal complaint. It's more of the same, isn't it? It makes us think of that phrase of that famous song, saddened, at times preterite, before the 75th. He said: "What do these people want to do in the morning? And, therefore, our Government must take action against this because, if not, as Councillor Giró also said, no one would want to exercise public office, no one would want to have a temporary appointment office, a trust office or a high level of administration by reason. And that can't be. There can be no democracy and no democracy for which we believe and preserve a fundamental right such as freedom of opinion, freedom of expression, freedom of demonstration, freedom to make tweets, freedom to make songs, freedom to express ourselves or freedom to vote. We don't want to live in a porbeagle state. They're inviting us to continue wanting to leave. When senior officials or government officials promote, come Catalonia, Catalan, agricultural and industrial products, you say propaganda; we say promotion. You are talking about identity projects; we are talking about promoting Catalan culture. Certainly, there is a difference: we do not share identity. What in other regions is normal, it's moral, it's legal – to promote Welsh products, with all respect, or Andalusian products – here is sin and they take us to the Court of Auditors. What insurance policies have in Andalusia is normal, it's moral and it's legal, and here it's sinful and they threaten us with the prosecution for misappropriation. This government has had to take precautionary and security measures, as I said, to defend those who decide to temporarily or work or functionally serve a country, to serve public administration. Will they also denounce us, to the Members who today vote that we do not and that, therefore, we pass on this bill of law? They'll report us to the D.A., too? I'm done with the Court of Auditors. In fact, it has been said many times before, and Mrs Regunant also in the previous intervention in July, she said, but I want to repeat it again, that in consistency: the Court of Auditors is a non-judicial organ, it is a political naming organ, appointed for the General Courts. It is an organism that is not independent of political power. He says his advisors are independent and immobile, but they're politically appointed. A court of accounts that, for example, allowed PP's scandals to expire or did not condemn Ana Botella for misappropriation of public money. A court of accounts, we repeat, has advisers like Manuel Aznar, brother of the ex-president; Antonio de la Rosa, concunyat d'en Rodrigo Rato ; Juan Velarde, patron of the foundation of the PP, FAES ; Margarita Mariscal de Gante, ex-minister of the Aznar ; the Ramón Álvarez de Miranda, son of the ex-president of the Congress. Nepotism. More than a hundred of their workers are from the internal families of the members of the court. Even the Supreme Court – the Supreme Court – issued a complaint in 2013, complaining about this politicization, saying that the Court of Auditors has more functionally appointed parties than career parties. And this is the court they want to impose on us by. And against that through this bill of law. It's a high in democracy, and it's a high in the 21st century that someone keeps wanting to do to us... doing politics or working for the people with it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.35.0	Thank you very much. And finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Lluís Salvadó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.36.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, very good morning to everyone. Well, as has been said, today we will be repeating, in a certain way, the debate that has already been brought to an end, and of course we will all end up reproducing many of the arguments that we have put forward at the time. The councillor has perfectly framed it in his first intervention: what we are today is a political response to the presumption of innocence of the public servants of the Generalitat – to the presumption of innocence of the public servants of the Generalitat – which will give coverage only until a firm sentence. That is why it is important that we remain aware of it. Regrettably, this bill will only give cover to a firm feeling. Therefore, let us face reality: on the day that there will be a firm feeling, that very probably and for the precedents that we have seen, there will be thirty-four families in this country will be stripped for political reasons, for reasons of political repression. What is being done today is a complement to the policies that already exist, that exist here, that exist in all autonomous communities and that exist throughout Europe. Polisses with what we are trying to introduce here today a differential element: we cover ourselves with a risk that there is not in other countries of European democracy, of the normal democracies of Europe, which is the risk to political repression. If today we were in a democratic context and respect for political discrepancy, surely today we would be here debating – one would argue – the content of the speech to the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. And if we were in a country where justice was as Belgian or as Italian or as German or as Swiss or as Scottish, we would be here today discussing how to adjust the original text of the decree that was originally presented and how to improve it, as stated in the opinion of the Guarantee Board, its regulatory quality. But today it seems to me that it is more important to talk about the situation, why we are obliged, from this Parliament and from the Government of Catalonia, to pass a decree law and later this bill. And we are obliged to do so, because there is a glue of lords and lords – friends, Germans, brothers-in-law and nephews of the People's Party – who have been dedicated to pursuing politically, in this concrete case, thirty-four public servants who give them forty times in honesty, in honesty, in public service and in defence of the will of the citizens of this country. And we are ahead, as has been pointed out, of an interim winding-up act which forms part of a preliminary phase – of a preliminary phase – of a phase which is not yet jurisdictional and which has no evidentiary force and which does not, in any case, suppose guilt. I repeat: we are ahead of a temporary liquidation that has no evidentiary strength or presumptuous guilt. But if you don't bring the money, if you don't bring the €5 million, they'll destroy your life. Thirty-four families... take you, your children, even the daughter of the delegate of the Government, of France, sadly in these dead moments. You'll be taken even for party performances in 2011 and 2012 – which you know the thing: 11 and 12 – when in this Parliament the Government of Catalonia approved the assumptions and ruled with the support of the People's Party. And at this point, friends and friends of the People's Party Government, today from the Court of Auditors, bring and claim to destroy the lives of thirty-four families. Some actions that have been done with lights and stenographers all these years, in the eyes of everyone, in the eyes of everyone and that no one has ever doubted their legality and no court has censored any of their actions. We had years, in this Parliament and in the Government of Catalonia, intervened for the Ministry of Heritage, where they reviewed all and each of the expenses. And there was never a remedy for respect. Nor has any of the annual reports of the Union of Accounts made a reparation to respect. We know that the difference between a banana republic and an advanced democracy is that the law changes depending on political interests. And that's what today, one more time, we'll find ourselves on the table again. There was no repair until the October 1 preparation. From there, it's still changing. From there, the one who was legal becomes illegal. And it becomes illegal because it turns out that 2015 Together for the Yes, with a clearly independent electoral program, we win the elections and set up an independent majority in this Parliament. And it turns out that October 1st won. I, even if it is repeatedly announced that we would put up with it, we would not put up with it and vote. And it turns out that after he attempts to "head off independence," the Soraya said: "He is locked in jail all the leaders of independence or he is going to exile, applies 155 and, still, 2017 we win again. And 2019 we win twice in the Spanish elections and independence we win in the municipal elections and in the European elections. And at the last Catalan elections of 2021, d'enguany, not only won, but passed fifty_per_cent for the first time. If, as someone has said, the citizenry considers that all that the Government of Catalonia has done is misappropriation, as it is accused of, obviously we would not be at this time with fifty-two per cent of the citizenry of our country voting for parties and independence formations. And at this point, some of the most reactionary sectors of the state think that if with exile, if with prison there is not enough, then go further, then increase political repression. And it's not just about the people involved, it's about their families, and it's about extending it to a lot more people. And as has been said on many occasions, this is making it a tribunal of accounts that at this time has a hundred of its workers who are familiar. Citing some of the classics of this Parliament, there's "the chiringuito of the chanchullos and the amiguets. An administrative and political organ that is very reliable to chase the organizers of October 1st, very reliable to chase the organizers of November 9th and very effective to cover up the corrupt. In 20 years of democracy, its officials have not found any corruption in the People's Party. I see you're hard. And also... [[Some applause.]] Unfortunately, however, the Court of Auditors has not only decided to increase the level of repression. Last week is a public fact that since the State Law, the PSOE and the commons, as there was not enough to disqualify the mayors for a year, now in question fourteen. And from the prosecutor's office, in the same line, in the court that absolved the mayor of Roquetes, ask for the suspension of the court and fail the same court. The world upside down. Nor is it surprising, in this scene, that every time more Catalans and more Catalans – and surely a lot of contracor, and many are giving up their whole-of-life parties, and a lot even giving up their family origins – at these times, as it has been years ago, have passed from the repressors' bench to the repressors' bench. And no, before this attempt to bring down thirty-four honest and honest families of politicians, of functionaries, some of them who have no political link, we would not value totalities or the contradictions of the ICF or the contradictions of the Government, because it seems to me that this is absolutely insubstantial. The important thing about today's debate is that we have a deep state disposed of anything. As we saw last week at Alguer, they were willing to make the ridiculous once and for all before European justice. We are ahead of a deep state that is willing to go through some useless in the march of justice. I, as Martínez el Facha said, "all for the country. They do not seem to assume that this democratic and peaceful sedition in Europe does not say the right to demonstration, and that to put ballots not in disobedience, but in Europe in democracy. And those who today are so concerned and so active at lawsuits, look at the other side when the runaway king is dedicated to collecting multi-million-dollar commissions, tax havens, favor tracts, funds reserved and donations from Saudi dictators. Looks like that's good for them already. Therefore, today we will vote against this motion to the full, we will collect the processing of the bill and continue to serve the public servants of our country, our institutions and, as the company said, against por. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.37.0	Well, then, after the debate is over and in accordance with Rule 116.5 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall proceed to vote on the whole question with alternative text. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, are Members coming in? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The vote begins. The total was rejected with 6 votes in favour, 125 votes against and 3 abstentions. Therefore, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Procedure for electing four members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau]] [[284-00003/13]] Let us turn to the eighth item of the agenda, the procedure for electing four members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, please. It's about taking a vote. Therefore, I would ask the deputy who is a Romaness on his escons. In accordance with Article 7.1 of Law 14/2007 of 5 December 2007, the Institut Internacional per la Pau, amended by Law 11/2011 of 29 December 2011, the Catalan Council for the Promotion of the Pau proposed five candidates, of which the Parliament of Catalonia has to read four members because it is possible to produce the renewal of the governing board. Therefore, I am surprised that the parliamentary groups of Socialists and Units to Advance, Republican Left, Together for Catalonia and the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar have submitted an election proposal with four candidates, which are the following: Mr Xavier Masllorens, Mr Nour Salameh, Mr Oscar Mateos and Mr Remei Sipi. Can you approve this proposal for candidates by consent? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, Therefore, we shall proceed to the secret electronic vote, in accordance with Rule 99.3 of the Rules of Procedure. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yeah? Oh, I'm sorry! Mr. Cid, did you want to use the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.38.0	Simply for a question of procedure. Even though the vote is secret, we, for a logistical matter, were not able to co-ordinate the proposal either, but we are also collecting it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.39.0	Oh, perfect! They are therefore also signatories to the proposals made to them by the Institute's governing board. All right. We shall therefore proceed to the electronic and secret ballot. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Names have been said; proposals have been made. [[Widow's remorse.]] They didn't keep it a secret from us. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, the proposals were well-known, agreed with the groups. That is why, when we vote on people, the Rule makes it secret. In any case, we have this approval of the members by 114 votes in favour and 20 votes against. Therefore, as the majority required for the law has sunk, these four candidates nominated as members of the Board of Governors of the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau are hereby appointed. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the 2021-2022 school year]] [[302-00025/13]] And now, let's move on to the new order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the school year 2021-2022. Presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to expose it, has the words of Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.40.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Members and Members of Parliament, at the end of July, asked the Councillor for Education – who today, therefore, cannot accompany us – because we already foresee different shortcomings and problems that we seemed to suffer from this course, as it did, and from which we have been talking for weeks: the disaster of planning and management of vocational training, which has left more than a thousand people without pleasure and which has made thousands of young people and not so young to join a professional career or to continue their training, who have finished home or on the road, who have gone to battling without wanting to mass, or who have not finally enrolled so that they could not face a quota, such as a report from the Barcelona Council. Thousands of families have had to suffer. On the other hand, the inclusive school, which, far from speaking, knows they're not doing enough. Incorporating one hundred professionals when we have more than 5,400 educational centres in all of Catalonia is very insufficient. Does it really look like they're doing enough to deploy the inclusive school decree? A few days ago we were talking about news of the Diari de Tarragona, but unfortunately we could extend it to many other places in the territory, where school addresses denounced a list of names and hours of vets per student with specific educational support needs, thus harming the student and also the teachers. And it seems we can't afford it. And, therefore, it is an urgent plan to accelerate the deployment of an inclusive education system, which incorporates more teachers, specialists to advance in co-docency, to attend to diversity and to be able to also make a much more individualized tutorial pocket. Just as we find ourselves in a situation of emergence of mental salvation between the especially young and child population, where the Government has spoken of the priority that mental salvation will be, but I must say that it has surprised us very much about a written answer that – I quote literally – says: « The 2021-2022 school year is not expected to open any new CSMIJ in Catalonia. A CSMIJ is a centre for child and youth mental health in Catalonia. And, therefore, I must say that you surprised us with this answer. We agree and it is very good that they have improved in teacher formation, in detection, in different instruments of detection of the emotional situation of many students, but beyond detection they also have resources to accompany these situations. They know that the teachers can't get to everything, that the PAEs are saturated after years of retailing that haven't reversed enough, not to talk about these CSMIJs or their own primary health care network. We can't see the priority for now. And we know on Tuesday – this Tuesday – the retreat the government made at the time of requesting the B2 certificate of English or of a third language to obtain a university title, without having done anything to attack the reasons for which many students did not complete it. And, therefore, we have to ask where is that basic job that had to be done at compulsory education to ensure precisely that the student arrives at the end of ESO with sufficient skills: more specialist teacher, more conversation assistants, more initial and permanent teacher training, more place at official language schools. Where's this plan? It's just that it hasn't been there yet and it hasn't been like this in the last few years. And, therefore, let's also hope that this point of the motion, among others, moves in and takes it seriously. Other questions we're asking about this young man. They like the government very much, so make announcements that they will not be completed later. Now we know that the government plan speaks of the gratuity of I2, of P2, welcome as it is, but when we scrape a little and ask for a little of concreteness, so we see that there is a lot of doubt about its credibility. Why, what is the cost of the square that you calculate? If they have said that the government is going to finance a third of the cost of the public children's playground, that most of them know that they are municipal schools, to cover two thirds, we do not understand why today they will vote against doubling this contribution to gratuity. I mean, how do they explain how they intend to guarantee this gratuity? Is it again going to be to the detriment of the joints? Because, if we start doing low-level calculations, it's just that we're already starting poorly. And to universalization, what have we already renounced? And, therefore, we would be very much looking forward to the debate on assumptions and, in this sense, already advancing them. In the field of VET, in order to guarantee precisely a sufficient public supply of formary cycles, above all of medium and higher degree, they have to make public the map of offer existing, as well as the one of training needs – sectoral, of the territory – and this one has to work with the different economic and social agents, with the municipal world. They have to plan well to avoid holding back thousands of vacancies on one side and, on the other, thousands of people deprived of this training continuity due to a lack of adequate and sufficient government offer. We also need to work to reduce early school drop-out. We must avoid losing resources again in those centres of maximum and high complexity, which pay precise attention to that most vulnerable student or with educational needs of educational support, as it has been this year. And there's also a shoal that I get back to the high school; gradually, Mrs. Driouch, but we also want to see this compromise translated into the premise and, therefore, to prevent us from failing again in this sense. And, finally, no one escapes that it is impossible to do this without the very assumption incorporating much more resources, the resources needed to reverse this underfunding that has suffered from Catalonia's education service since years ago. Looks like you're not impossible. We'd like to feel this four-per-cent compromise. But in any case, to finish, thank all the ideas and contributions that have come forward, and say that we have arrived at different transactions with In Comú Pode, with groups that support the Government and also with Citizens. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.41.0	It has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pom, the deputy Mr Jordi Jordan to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.42.0	Thank you, President. We can, of course, share in general terms the diagnosis of what is the state of education in our country and certainly also some of the challenges we have going forward to push forward. We want a fair, fair, unsegregated, inclusive, feminist and green school, as we have repeated many times during this start of the legislature. But it is clear that there is a need for a reversal, beyond the words and, therefore, to mark who are the priorities to pull forward, and above all to accompany it with a good management and a necessary financing. In this sense, Catalonia hardly stands out for having made an important investment in education. We are far from the state middle, far from the European middle, and we are not so full of what the LEC says, which we have to get to the six-per-cent investment in relation to GDP. The course 2021-2022_has started with a few announcements from the government that we think are coming to fruition, because today's hours have generated many uncertainties and many doubts. And so we've explained from our group at the Councillor's appearance last week in the Education Commission. We share reptes– universalizing the education of the first cycle of childhood education–, and we consider, therefore, that yes, that certainly, as the young man says, it can duplicate the presuppositional contribution in this sense. Secondly, vocational training. Here, more than looking for solutions, still, for all those students who do not have a place, what we consider from our group is that we can draw up a map of the FP in Catalonia, marking the whole offer, that it is balanced territorially and above all that it increases, obviously, the public offer, instead of concerting and negotiating also in these studies. For another band and also as we have said many times, we think that we need to deploy more forcefully and with more resources the inclusive school, that since 2017 we have a decree that remains in force and that is obviously still in many aspects of the calaix, while we have, each time more, a diverse student who needs a lot of resources so that we actually have a more inclusive education system. Now, beyond these points that we share, there are also others that we see insufficient. For example, when we talk about intensifying the endowments of teachers, instead of intensifying, we think it would be helpful to increase clearly in this sense. Also when we talk about educational centers for their complexity. To the young people, we think that, more than updating the cataloguing study with the data of 2020 and, therefore, reflecting the effects of the pandemic, we think that what would be hot in this course, that absolutely no educational centers, a_seventy, would lose the resources that they did have in the past course. And there is also another element that worries us and that has to do with the model, when we talk about improving in our own presuppositionary exercise the financing of all the education service in Catalonia. We continue to think that what needs to be prioritized is the public school, which must be the paler of our system, as it happens in the most advanced countries of Europe. And, therefore, only with a robust and strong public school can we create a system of success and real fairness. Since our group we have presented various papers. We also thank Congresswoman Niubó for having incorporated them; some, with some modifications. And in that sense, right? , we refer, for example, to the need not to renew educational concerts with centres that still secrete the student by reason of sex. It is an urgency, we consider from our group, and an action that we cannot continue to tolerate and that is, obviously, to the antipodes of our model. For another band, we also thought it necessary to add a point that refers to the mental salvation of the student and that, therefore, there are more resources to deploy this plan of salvation, school that the pandemic believes is obviously marking us. And finally, another element that we wanted to incorporate is all that relates to the revision of the protocols for school accommodation, which we believe must also be a priority that needs to be updated, that needs to be reviewed and that, therefore, we need to work to ensure that there is no discrimination or rape either on grounds of sex or sexual orientation or of any type at school. In conclusion, we will vote in favour of this motion in most points, because we share priorities, have also added proposals and needs that we consider essential from our group, but we will also abstain in some others because we consider them clearly insufficient and because they do not yet concrete resources that we think they can expect any more. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.43.0	Thank you. Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of the House has the word Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.44.0	Well, thank you. Well, Mrs. Niubó, we're surprised, aren't we? , which only addresses some of the important aspects that need to be accurately integrated into an educational model of success. Because what they're presenting to us today is a proposal that doesn't matter. Because, while it is certain to double the coverage of a public school square, we are presented with a proposal that excludes private and concerted education, and this is something that we cannot agree with. Because it must be possible to guarantee the freedom of parents to choose the best educational model they consider for their children, regardless of that educational model. And, in this sense, the VOX proposal of the school cheque would solve precisely these anomalies, guaranteeing, moreover, the freedom of the parents to choose the educational model. Moreover, it is not oblivion that a deu_percent of children's lars in Catalonia had to close the past course and that the Administration, only already in the city of Barcelona, has fulminated 2,500 places for Catalan families, and, at the same time, has loaded 1,200 places of work. On the subject of vocational training, the Generalitat, which must cease to be done once and for all, is to concentrate all its efforts on imposing an indoctrination agenda on educational centres and doing what really matters, which is to plan the offer on the basis of demand. Do you know how much the generality invests in education? It only invests the 3,6_per_cent of GDP in education, along with the six_per_cent that stipulated the Catalan law of education. But in change we find ourselves, therefore, that the Generalitat has no problem in investing EUR 110_million in linguistic policy and EUR 240_million in the media corporation, because the Generalitat, in this sense, is not that it has its priorities clear, is that it has them very clear, and education is not one of them. And, on point 6, from VOX we say: yes to inclusive school, but yes to special school, which for many years carries out excellent work in integrating children into society. And then, Mrs Niubó, I don't know if you have forgotten because of lack of time, but we believe that you have forgotten to mention two of the elements that are crucial to the proper functioning of the educational model, which are freedom and excellence. And it is that freedom, today, is in danger in Catalonia. What do you tell me, for example, of this recent photo of a school in Tortosa where separatist indoctrination and indoctrination in gender ideology by a teacher of innocent children are clearly seen? Why does the Socialist Party not condemn and denounce this? Or why does it not require respect for the sociolinguistic reality in Catalonia in the classrooms? , which has even had to state itself the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia in order to demand a minimum of Spanish in the classrooms. From VOX we argue that we must guarantee an education in Spanish, yes, but without percentages. And something that worries us very much: no minor should be involved in making the tragic decision to end his life, and less if it is because of the torment he suffered in school. And from here we want to offer all our support to so many families who, unfortunately, have suffered the loss of a child. In particular we want to regret the loss of a 15-year-old girl from Kira, whose case has touched us more closely because we had the opportunity to be with her parents. And remember, in this sense, that on 27 September, in the Committee on Education, our Member Manuel Acosta presented a series of initiatives on school harassment in order to be able to reopen the parliamentary debate and to put an end to this scourge. And I'm finishing up. A quality education must go through freedom, excellence, the defense of the plurality of different educational models and neutrality, since different governments always use education as a weapon at the service of their partisan interests, and we believe that education and the whole educational community must be on the sidelines of political disputes and wars. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.45.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.46.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Well, first of all, I would like to say that the motion put to us by the Socialist Party of Catalonia seems to us to be of the best value in most of its points. It goes without saying that we are going to vote in favour of the motion as a whole, because it seems to us that it does address fundamental issues, such as the propensity to universalize the first cycle of child education as one of the priorities that the Government of the Generalitat must have; it addresses fundamental issues such as the precariousness of vocational training in our community; it addresses aspects that, in short, seem to us to be soft, central, capital, of our educational system. On the other hand, for not reiterating me in terms of the proposal, of the motion, we also thank Mrs Niubó for her ability to compromise, her ability to reach agreements, her willingness to accept positions sometimes difficult to reconcile, but... in short, she has come to make even squares of the circle, as a transaction between Junts per Catalunya and Ciutadans, or between Esquerra and Ciutadans, which seems to me, therefore, certainly an example of capacity for dialogue and useful policy. On the other hand, there is some aspect that draws my attention to and that I think is an endemic evil of education in Catalonia, which is that, in my opinion, there is an excessive propensity to positions contrary to freedom on issues such as, for example, the claim to weaken the weight of the concerted school, of the concerted school, in our community, in our educational system, because I believe it is essential to preserve the freedom of parents in choosing the education they want for their children. Also on moral issues, on religious issues, on issues that have to do with the world view that families have. I believe, from this point of view – and I say this as an agnostic – that it is essential that this halo of anti-clericalism or anti-..., or of going against religion, in short, as far as education is concerned. For example, in paragraph 15 of this motion, in relation to concerts in schools that differ by sex, the wrong calls, in my opinion, "segregated schools. I think it is obvious that freedom must be defended, even if it is not your model. We, from Citizens, do not consider the gender-differentiated education model to be the most appropriate model, because we are in favour of a mixed education, of of course secular education, a secular public education, but it is true that we believe that parents should have the right, in a healthy democratic society, to choose the education of their children. If they want to take their children to religious schools, they must be able to do so, because it is a right protected by our Constitution, and if they want to take their children to schools where they differ because of sex, they must also have the right to do so. It seems to us fundamental to a merely question of respect for freedom. There is a dogmatic conception of reality in general and also of the educational reality that leads some to claim that their model is the only acceptable one. And that, I think, does not at all favor the formation of an open and cosmopolitan society; the formation, in the end, of a pluralistic and respectful society with the diversity that characterizes it, as is Catalan society. In this regard, I also wanted to make a small comment on an eternal debate that Mrs Niubó and I have. For various reasons, we are both particularly involved in the education of people with disabilities, of people with some disability, in this case intellectual, and we do not have a way of seeing exactly the same thing. I believe that in Catalonia – and above all by the Government of the Generalitat, but also by the rest of the parties – there is a will to greatly weaken special education schools. And to me personally, it seems to me that we must defend the possibility of inclusive education, equip it economically as it should be — which for now the Government of the Generalitat has not done the duties in this regard — but we must also defend and preserve the special education centres, which are doing fundamental work. Because there are families who are in charge..., who have among their relatives people with a severe disability, who will always consider that, in a school, in a special education center, their children, their loved ones, are better treated. I've been able to see him personally. And certainly, in schools, in special education centres, exceptional work is done. And from here I would like to express my appreciation to all the professionals, teachers, school management teams, special education centres, I insist, for their self-denial work for equality and for the well-being of persons with disabilities. That would be our position. We shall vote in favour of the motion as a whole. And I thank you, Mrs. Niubó, for your talent. Thank you for everything.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.47.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the deputy Antònia Batlle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.48.0	Thank you very much. Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Last Sunday, the day we started this plenary, was celebrating World Teacher's Day. From here I want to recognize the indispensable work of all of them, as well as thanking the pocket of the entire educational community. I would like to highlight the repte and the importance of education as the foundational pillar of society. This young man is very broad, and I will touch some of the themes dealt with in it – that doesn't mean that he matters to you that you don't name. From Junts to Catalunya we bet on a quality education model, including equity, and with community vision. A system with two foundational pillars, the result of the great political and social consensus: linguistic immersion, from the Catalan school model, and the Education Service of Catalonia, in the framework of the law of education. With the first one it guarantees the knowledge of the Catalan and the Aran; with the second one it recognizes the plurality of the Catalan society, with a model of public service suitable and singular, that integrates both public and social initiative, of wide tradition to our country. Speaking of inclusive school, the inclusive school model is of vital importance, and consequently the deployment of the decree, organizing a civic participation table with entities and collections and ensuring the necessary resources. We will always find, in some school of any native of Catalonia, a classroom with some needs that could not be answered. And that's why we call on the responsibility of this department in optimizing resources and a good redistribution of resources. For another band, school segregation must be combated by ensuring equity in access to all students at the highest educational opportunities. It is a priority to bet on the balanced distribution of the student with the co-responsibility of the centres, providing all those who are part of the Education Service of Catalonia, both public and concerted, with the resources and tools necessary to continue to deploy the pact against school segregation. And let's talk about resources again: that's why we have to demand, as we have repeatedly done from this chamber, the resolution of the generality's infra-financing to improve the financing of our education system, among many other aspects. Another topic to be discussed in this case is vocational training – we have already heard from the companies that preceded me – which was also addressed to the Education Committee just as well last week. It is vitally important to have structured cycles that respond to the needs of our country, putting in place in the professional orientation of these young people, creating an complicity between education and business needs to give answers to the labor needs of the market. I'll give them an example. Some Members of my parliamentary group visited an electrical installation company in Girona: a company with thirty employees, net salaries of more than two thousand euros... They work for fourteen people and do not find them. The company has tried to do..., three or four years ago they tried to do a vocational training school, but through them they found – bureaucratic impediments and many others – in the department they made them drop out. And here, from our parliamentary group, we always say that we have to be very firm on this bet. Answers need to be given, and public-private collaboration is very important that it works. From here on out, I'm sorry there's no counselor here today. I would like to take the words he said to us here yesterday, to the Chamber, which said that this would be the legislature of the FP. Here you will find with a group that we bet firmly for the FP. Yesterday Deputy Canadell was talking about putting the direct in this aspect. The offer has increased. We know that there has been a problem and that the department has tried to solve it in the best possible way, but we must continue to make, above all, an offer adapted to the combination of social, territorial and business needs, and we have both public ownership and social initiative centres. Therefore, here they will have a group, the counselor and the department, to try to improve as much as possible the Education Service of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.49.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Najat Driuech has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.50.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. As Niubó said, the councillor today apologized because he cannot be here, and that is why we have the presence, on behalf of the government, of Councillor Jordan. Also, before I begin, I would like to dedicate my first words to our spokesman of the commission, the Mònica Palacín. From here I tell him that we wish him a speedy recovery, that we want to keep her alive. [[Greetings.]] That said, I'd like to get into the subject we're dealing with now, wouldn't I? We've started a new school year. A school course that ends with work done and guarantees 100_percent of classroom attendance: planning, performance and outcomes, despite the pandemic. An action that we consider very brave by the Department of Education and that deserves our education system. We want to continue to strengthen the Catalan school model by enhancing inclusive education, ensuring equal opportunities for all students and, of course, consolidating our country's model of vocational training and qualification. With reference to children's education and the universalization of the first cycle, we want to make it clear that, before a pandemic attacking the stability of the service, the continuity of the essential service has been guaranteed. To note that the last legislature, with Esquerra Republicana at the head of the Department of Education, has recovered the investment in education from zero to three years, from a assumption of zero_euro to 70_million euros in 2020. And, as you know, the president has also announced the P2's gratuity for the coming class for families. For what he does to vocational training, despite his insistence on the criticism of all the work of the Government, what is undeniable is that there has been a government action to ensure the place of all the students who wanted to take a cycle of vocational training. For the first time an exceptional registration process has been opened and the places offered have been increased. In the House you also talk about the inclusive education system and complexity centers. And here we want to make it very clear: we want a school that minimizes inequality, a school where everyone participates. We want a free segregation school model and a fair and free model of all types of discrimination. This is the school we want. Therefore, we start the course with twenty-one new centres, with fewer students in the education system and more teachers than ever before. And when we talk about "more masters we want to make it very clear that we maintain the 8,200 extraordinary reinforcements that we incorporated with the covid-19, and this course incorporates 1,200 professional new ones to give answer to the need for schooling. On the social plan for families, children and young people, we are already working in the pact against school segregation in Catalonia promoting inclusion in the centres in non-formal education time or with the approach of hourly reform. For what he does to the digital education plan, it was and is a strategy of the Department of Education and the Government. We completed with the demands of the pandemic. We gave to all the students who needed a device, a computer; we made it easier. But here, Congresswoman, I'd appreciate it if you'd give us a little pressure on the state government. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] because I can devote European funds to digitisation, because, at the very least, I think that our country's studentship deserves it. As long as I'm running out of time, I'd like to say that we share the young lady's background, that she'll have our support in most of the points. Note that in points 9, 10 and 12, as much as we've come to a lot of agreement, here we're going to have to abstain. And we can't accept point 2, where we think you're making a demagogue, because, as you very well said, part is municipal competence, and the law accompanying assumptions also calendars it. And that's why at this point, at point 2, we can't vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.51.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, has the word, now, Mrs Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.52.0	Good morning, everyone. Thank you very much, President. You see, today we are debating a young man who I think... the summary we could make of it is that it shows the mismanagement of this government and of previous governments in this matter, because in the end they are proposing things that should already be girls or things that should be done, right? And in this sense, most of the young lady, so we agree, don't we? We've submitted three papers. These are some of the points that are in the sense of incorporating concerta and private into all these educational policies, because in the end it gives us the impression that they do not seem to be part of the education system, and they do form part of the education system. And the other issues are in the sense of preserving the sustainability of the whole system – both concerted and private – and of ensuring the stability, vigor and sufficiency of educational concerts, because in the end this is to guarantee the compliment of Catalonia's law of education. But these items have been rejected, sadly, and I don't understand why, because what we're proposing is just common sense, and we're simply asking for the compliment of the legislation that we have in place today, which is in defense of a mixed education system. I, of course, recommend many fewer visits to concerted schools and protect them much more, because it seems that we are leaving them abandoned in many regulations that are fan and in many actions that are fan, and with an equidistance, sometimes, that would not be desirable, right? And I see a point of hypocrisy. If you believe in the model, it's defense the model and it's defense without ambiguity, right? And, without adequate funding, I must tell you that you cannot develop anything, absolutely nothing, that you want to propose here. So let's get straight into the problem we have of infra-financing the education system, and from here, let's start moving forward. Because, of course, you're talking about universalization, gratuity, more teachers, individualized tutorials... totally agree, I tell you, we'll vote for it. But, as we guarantee, if the system is not properly funded? It's impossible. Can't do it – can't do it. And so, let's go to where the problem lies... And we're not there. We would like to ask for a differentiated vote on some of the points in his report. The first point is the one that talks about the review of complexity. All right. We agree that it should be reviewed. It is urgent to review the criteria that determine the complexity of the centres – we have denounced it on various occasions, that in the background there is a reduction in resources that are intended for these centres – but we cannot transfer it to the next course. They can't. They can't wait, these centers. It is urgent that this applies already and that it is endowed with more resources to these centers that have a qualification of complexity. And then there's two points in which we don't agree. One is the compacted day, isn't it? Don't say that, but the more or less he insinuates that he's not here, the more the proposal goes. We don't share the compact day. They've been tested. Then you'll tell me if I'm wrong in my interpretation, but they've done tests, it doesn't work, and, besides, it creates an important problem of reconciliation between work and family life, right? And, obviously, we will vote with a non-rounding the non-renewal of the concert that segregates by sex motive. Election freedom is election freedom. What's not free choice in what looks good to me. No, no, Freedom of choice of parents is freedom of choice, in what seems good to them and in what does not seem good to them, in which they like them and in which they do not like them. And, therefore, the freedom of choice is also that parents can choose to opt for a concerted school that separates by gender. And, therefore, in this sense... we do defend the freedom of absolute choice for the couple at the time of choosing the center for their children, and this point we will also vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.53.0	Next, to fix his position, he has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.54.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mrs. Niubó, obviously, this motion for a motion... from our point of view, it's not the best we'd like. Obviously, it is not our political programme in the field of education, but it is doubtful, in many of its points, in many of its proposals, that it would mean, if the Government applied it, an obvious progress in the line in which we think we can move forward. Also, I have to tell you that the original text pleased us more than after having incorporated some of the papers, and now we still have a chance to comment on it. Indeed, and in general, we have to combat the details that have been produced in the field of education since 2010, and here are various proposals that go in this sense. And, obviously, we need to move immediately to what the first law you approved indicates, the six per cent in education. And, if not, as at least immediately – we said yesterday in the context of the inquiry – get to 4.7, which is the European media. It would seem incomprehensible that someone can defend that this is not an object to acquit immediately and urgently. Therefore, and to get in there already to comment on the different points of his motion, for what he does to zero-three years education, obviously, all the reversal that is made will be little, in this sense, and any reversal is urgent, because we are responding to an emergence not only educational, but social. When there is not a free public square accessible from zero to three years, we are not only aware of a right of education for students and students, but we are attacking a social right of families that has very important consequences from a point of view of class and social inequality for which this implies inequality in the way it makes the possibilities of compatibility of family life and work life. Therefore, in this sense, we support this proposal to increase the investment. The same could be said in vocational training: it is a fundamental right. You will say that it is compulsory, but it is a fundamental right, and therefore a public obligation, of public policies, to provide it with all the public places free of charge and in the professional families solicitated that the students of our country need and require. Therefore, in this sense, we also agree with this proposal. And, mirin, we have commented on various occasions: it seems paradoxical to us that precisely the solutions that have been given to correct, late and poorly, to starters and rollers, to the planning error for which it makes the needy of professional training for this course have given as a result a multiplication of the concertation of places, instead of creating and guaranteeing the public places needed. I suppose you already know: the sources of reversal – and, among them, the sources of return – are already detecting vocational training as an opportunity for reversal. Therefore, we have to lay a wall before this, before mercantilization and speculation in the educational camp, and guarantee a professional formation, therefore, public, universal and free. Obviously, for the rest of the points... we can't comment on them all, but we can say that point 7 is a point that we have voted for, and with the thought that they have agreed to vote not. Because, moreover, that approval of this point would mean going against the motion for a resolution that in the general policy debate, on our proposal, was approved. And, obviously, we cannot share that the guarantee of the resources so far existing in the centres of high complexity or with certain complexity..., these resources can already guarantee them for this course that we are, cannot admit that this is transferred to the coming course. Therefore, according to the increase in resources in all those that increase its complexity, but we cannot accept that the centre today loses resources, moreover, from an obsolete and inadequate valuation system, because we are in a context of growing complexity, at the expense of the social and economic crisis that our country sees. We'll abstain on point 8. It seems to us that precisely because of this context of crisis and social emergence of about thirty per cent of childhood in a situation of social emergence and under the shadow of the poor, guaranteeing universal, public and free food for everyone is an unavoidable urgency. And we'll also abstain in point 12. And at point 13 we will also abstain, because it is of those points that we have already voted that yes, but with the fear that they have agreed to abstain - there, because, certainly, in our country to guarantee the struggle for inclusiveness and against segregation we have to guarantee positive discrimination in favour of public education, it is the only way. And, therefore, we will abstain in the formulation in which this point has remained. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.55.0	Finally, the Member had two minutes to speak on the points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.56.0	Thank you, President. The truth is that in two minutes it's very complicated... I want to start, so, thank everyone for the input and the rich debate I've had, and I'll try to get over the issues that have gone out. As far as the centres of maximum complexity are concerned, the resources that they must have, obviously we do not accept this detail of resources that they have had, but it is that this year is taking place: the government that some are collecting, so it has done so. And I think we should go – and I agree with what Congressman Jordan gave – to an allocation of resources for educational centres that were not linear, that were dependent on the needs of each centre, its complexity. I, therefore, for one band, stop labeling centres, and for the other, provide the necessary resources. About this public-concerted debate. For one thing, we cannot share that educational centers that secrete by sex, so they can be financed with public funds, because we understand that they do not comply with public service objectives. But, obviously, let's not shut down the concerted school; we're talking about the funding of the Education Service of Catalonia, and that means public and concerted. We're a long way from guaranteeing free education. Therefore, steps must also be taken in this direction. And some papers we didn't accept. I am talking, for example, about the PP, which spoke, therefore, of public and private experts. Experts... we understand that they are from the public and private sectors; therefore, we do not enter. On the digital plane, the Spanish government spent more than 400_million euros a year dealing with the emergence of education and so on. About school attendance. It is true that we talk a little bit about it, but we precisely proposed the creation of a working group to the Education Commission to address this issue, which we would like it to be opened to the pool of political groups. But, in short, I believe that there are too many pending Government of the Generality at the time of starting this course. Let's hope that we can work a lot more on our own course, and so we'll be too much on the assumption to start with a few finished dueres. The zero-three theme. We would be very much in favour of this gratuity, because if you vote against doubling the game, it is that you do not believe in improving this coverage, and therefore it means that the families will continue to pay or that the assemblies will have to bear this cost that you are announcing to us. We need to move forward in improving educational outcomes. We are also far from these results, which have been very stagnant for years and are in some cases backward. And, in short, it has to advance in diversity. And above all, I also say that we are obviously collecting special education centres. Finally, only ask for a separate vote on item 15, because there will be a differentiated vote of Units to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There has been a request for a separate vote on point 15. Any other separate votes? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Vilalta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.58.0	Yes, thank you, President. To ask for separate vote on point 2, for one band, and, for another, on points 9, 10 and 12. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.59.0	Okay. [[Pause.]] Mr. Riera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.60.0	Thank you, President. For a separate vote on points 7, 8, 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.61.0	All right. [[Pause.]] Miss Parera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.62.0	Thank you. To ask for separate vote from point 7, and, for another band, the 12th and the 15th, that they could go together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.63.0	Okay. [[Pause.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.64.0	Yeah. To ask for a separate vote on 4, 9, 12 and 14. And the rest of them could go folded.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.65.0	Mr. Cid? [[Widow's remorse.]] Or have they already seized it, the separate vote? [[The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.66.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 6, point 7 and point 13, which could be voted together, but I do not think it is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.67.0	Yeah. I think there's only three of them left alone... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, three, only. [[Pause.]] All right, so let's proceed to the votes. We are now voting for Point 1. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 123 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on point 2. The vote begins. Point 2 was not approved: it received 58 votes in favour, 65 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 124 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved, with 133 votes in favour and 1 abstention. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 114 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved, with 103 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 22 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8 was approved, with 114 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has received 69 votes in favour and 65 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10_has received 58 votes in favour and 76 abstentions. We're voting point number 13 now. The vote begins. Point 13 was approved, with 106 votes in favour and 28 abstentions. We're voting point number 14 now. The vote begins. Point 14 has been approved, with 134 votes in favour. And now we're voting point 15. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 21 votes against. And finally, we vote for the rest... [[Widow's remorse.]] On the 12th, I voted for it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, we didn't vote for it? He jumped me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Because there were only 3, 11 and 16, which are the ones that we would vote for at the end. So we're voting number 12 now. The vote begins. Point 12_has received 57 votes in favour, 3 against and 74 abstentions. And now we vote, yes, the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. These points received 123 votes in favour and 11 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into priorities in agriculture and rural areas]] [[302-00026/13]] Let's get to the top of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on priorities in agriculture and rural areas, presented to the Socialist Group and Units for Progress. To expose it has the word the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.68.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, we present today a motion following the question that we made in July – so it has been a few weeks now – but, even though this time has passed, when we hear it is totally valid, this proposal that we are today, because it speaks of the priorities of the department. We can say that the priorities of the Department of Agriculture, in this case, go far beyond what we have reflected in this young man, and I am sure they are right; in fact, let us hope that this is the case – a subject as important as, for example, the management of wildlife, which affects the whole sector, is not there; we are not talking about fishing, nor is it a competence of the department. Because this young man doesn't have an exhaustive will and because we believe that there are initiatives or that there are fears that they deserve timely and focused initiatives on these issues, right? , specific to these issues. So, there's all of them, but there's not all of them. Which fears do we consider strategic and what would be appropriate in the action of the department from the first moment? Fight against depopulation and territorial cohesion. Then we'll talk about it enough, in the Republican Esquerra motion on the rural agenda. We understand that there has been a work done by the ARCA that will be presented a few weeks ago – from the Association of Rural Initiatives of Catalonia –, an intense work of participation, debate, in the countryside, that will have to bear its fruit on this rural agenda, which we understand will be approved. But this first step won't do us any good if we don't put in concrete action and if we don't have resources. Concrete actions must come when the whole process is complete, and we understand that, but we understand that there is an important initial action that can be put in place immediately, and that is to drive a national pact for rural development and against depopulation. We believe that the democratic challenge, territorial cohesion, not just the rural world, and, in fact, that is how all the entities with which we have met in this sense have come to us. It is not just the rural world that is being questioned, it is the whole country that is being questioned. They will not be able to give the fall to the situation in the rural world and the agricultural world if we do not involve the city itself. But, in addition, if we look at territorial cohesion in a conjunct, we see that there are territories that do not lose people, but in guanyan and, more, more, disorderly and, more, that overflow the public services. I remember, then, the last legislature, that we did a job on this subject at Baix Penedès, for example. The issue of territorial cohesion is therefore a country issue. And if we want this territorial cohesion to be produced, if we want the loss of the population to be stopped in the deities of Catalonia that are not lost, we will have to ensure that the people who live there have the opportunity to earn a decent living. And that's what makes farming worthy, because farming is the main activity of these businesses. That is why the prices of agricultural products are worthy, and that is why we argue that the Agri-Food Observers of Preus de Catalunya determine the cost prices of products from different areas and sectors, because the impossibility of selling under cost is a reality. Also, in our view, we need to review the general forest policy plan of Catalonia, because we understand that it has not fulfilled the objectives that had been set. Therefore, it is necessary to redefine it at the temporal level, and to promote the actions necessary to bring it to term. We also propose, within the strategic framework of the food industry of Catalonia, to enhance the action of the Català de l'Alminentació Council, and this means putting resources to it; to improve the competitiveness of the agro-food industry incorporating the new technologies there, and to focus in a special way on the craft and proximity industry, much of it articulated in cooperatives and which needs a special treatment and legislation for its characteristics. And we've dedicated one last part of the young man to an aspect that we understand in terms of language, research, research, development, which is fanciful both through the university and through IRTA. We find ourselves in front of huge reptiles. The way the European Union has embarked on the Green Deal's Farm to Fork requires us to make a model change in agricultural production to make it environmentally sustainable. And in this research and research, they're cool – just like they are because this production is economically competitive, because, if it isn't, we'll have a hard problem, the sector will have a hard problem. And the fruit of this investigation will be transferred to the producers. And we, in our youth, are talking about the recovery of agricultural extension services as they worked very well during their existence, that they disappeared and that on many occasions they have been replaced by advisory services of farmers' suppliers and farmers with interests that do not always coincide with them. Therefore, as we take back this direct wire between public research – more than being well equipped economically – and producers. In short, we set up, therefore, strategic aspects, in our view, for the rural world, for the agricultural world and for the women and men who live in the camp and live in the camp. Then, in the next round, I will refer to the papers that the groups have presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.69.0	Thank you very much. Now, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomera, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... the truth is that the debate on the rural world is a debate that is taking place in all European territories and in many territories of the world. The debate on the ‘respite' – which we have said many times in Catalonia – on the empty Spain, on the ‘diagonal of emptiness' – as France says – is a global debate and one that has to do with the model of development that we have built during the three last seconds, but it is a debate that has precipitated the last decade for the effect of austerity policies and for how inequalities also express themselves territorially. And it's a debate that's plural and that's multi-causal. And, therefore, we, like having two interventions followed, on agriculture and the rural agenda..., what we will do will be to divide it into two interventions. There is one of the crises that is central to the rural world, which is the crisis of agriculture and the treasuries. It is a crisis that devalues agricultural prices and prices of ramaders products, that puts at risk an economic sector that is central to the economy of our country, that is central to the economy of the rural world and that is central to the management of our country's territories. Because we sometimes value the agricultural sector or the branching sector for the absolute impact they have, but there is a whole series of tasks that make these sectors that do not make the rest of the sectors, and therefore if we lose the agricultural sector or lose the branching sector, we will have a problem with the management of our territory, with the ecosystem tasks that the branching and agriculture does. We have recently approved the food chain law in Congress, which for the first time lays down limits and prohibits the sale of our branches and our farmers to loss. And this, for us, has been a debate and a central discussion throughout the law. We have seen recent cases that have had a media impact, such as the case of Lactia, in Osona, where it was threatened with abandoning the branches of the region if they did not agree to sell it at a loss, and finally they had to accept a few laughs, which did not cover them or the costs of production. And for us this is a central debate to address the future of the page and the bookstore, and we can say that it's already read across the country. And, in this, there is one thing we fully share with this young man, and it is that it is necessary to empower the Agri-Food Observers of Preus. The administrations must set prices, but they must also accompany the producers in the negotiations, who feel that they are accompanied, and that the large distributors in this country know that the Government of Catalonia and the Agri-Food Observers of Preus will ensure that they do not sign contracts at a loss, and that, therefore, the negotiation is no longer so uneven between a large distributor and a small producer, because there is an administration that accompanies it and that it ages for the large distributors to complete the law. The second question is that for us it is fundamental: to guarantee investments in the territory. That is why we have presented a specific point, in this case, about the modernization of the Urgel canals. We are still looking forward to modernising our country's primary sector both in terms of efficiency and, above all, in terms of managing scarce resources, such as water in our country. We must guarantee – and for us it is a fundamental element – the generational replenishment in the primary sector, and we also wanted to present a specific point of respect. We need to guarantee access for young people and women to land in our country because they can also participate in the rural economy and because we do not find ourselves, in God or in fifteen years, that there is no agricultural land in our country. And an element that is repeated in this Parliament and that is very little – if I don't recall badly, at the CUP's proposal – we again discussed with the Committee on Agriculture: to guarantee decent work. And we have a lot of conflict in this, not just in the primary sector; many times we focus on it there, but we know that there has been job insecurity in the service sector, that there has been job insecurity in the industry, also in the agri-food industry, but we have to make an effort on issues that are central to us. The images we see a year ago with the timers, especially in the Lleida area and in the fruit harvest, require greater public involvement – not only of work inspection, but of the joint public administration – in order to guarantee, for example, for producers, decent accommodation and that we do not see some of the images we have seen during these years. We know that there are problems with many businesses in this country, under conditions of exploitation, that violate human rights and violate the labour laws of our country. And, in short – and we have presented an issue and at the end there was no agreement, but it will be a negotiation that will widen – we also have to be able to generate added value in the deployment of renewable energies to the territory, which will not deepen the crisis of devalued rural world, but bring added value, and we will still be able to fit all these debates now, because the country needs it, because its own years will be closed. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.71.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Salvador Vergés, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.72.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... the Marta, of Espola, can't find pastors with offices because she helps with the beast. In Pere, d'Espiells, she brings years complaining to the insurance company that she also covers the plague of the honeycomb in her comings. A in Josep, from Sant Iscle, more than fifteen years ago the Sanglars literally destroyed all their cults. La Gemma, from Porrera, also wears years – twenty-one years, concretely – fighting with companies to give mobile coverage to their mas. And in Martí, in Viella, years and years ago he's struggling to keep an agricultural shed on his farm. Or, for example, in Sebastiá, in Rupit, which has been paying him for 20 years at the same price. Socialists and gentlemen, today we are presented with a motion, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, with measures most of which – some of them, some of them already exist – have great names. And it's fixed, so they're general plans: national pact, agri-food observers, strategic plan... They're deficiencies that are obvious and that are acquired years and years in the rural world and in the agricultural sector: rural development, training, modernization of operations, generational replenishment, depopulation, redistribution of industrial fabric production, training and transfer of knowledge, etc. And I give them the reason, or else, I don't argue with them about these deficiencies. In fact, I always say that, in electoral programs, in the norma_per_cent coincide with their agricultural policies, and these were repeated, year after year, parliamentary re-legislative, right? The problems and shortcomings of the rural world are so obvious and structural that, let's say, practically none, regardless of the political colour, discuss them. That's why I wanted to start my intervention by asking you some concrete examples of people I know, people I've visited, because, if not, we fall – you, but also us, badly – to talk generically about what we should do. But day by day shows us, historically, that we have not just landed well or well enough the policies that would heat up to solve every case of all these people, right? And I repeat: it's not a criticism that we're dealing with now or that we were dealing with before; simply, therefore, it's an alert to all – to me, the first – in a cross-sectional way, to all departments. Because here we don't only talk about agricultural issues; we talk about rural governance, which is a much broader term. And, in fact, what it takes is that all departments effectively apply their policies to adapt to the different realities of the territory we have. We must all work together to be able to make policies that are effective, with fine surgery, to solve each of the concrete cases, because, if not, what we will find, simply, will be that it will no longer be hot, that we will get out of the cities and out there, simply, there will be no one left. Therefore, welcome, all these proposals that make us. We, with the ideas that we have introduced, will vote yes, except at the first point, because we understand that the national pact is already covered by the rural agenda, which, moreover, is a project that looks very good, which is very well worked out. And, yes, all these plans and these great pacts, so we have to age because we really serve for the problems of Martha, of Father, of Josep, of Gemma, of Martí and of Sebastià. And a second question, lords and lords of the Eastern PSOE: all these proposals that ask us, are worth, cost a lot of money. I don't know if they know what the agricultural budget is to the Government of Catalonia; they are approximately 727_million euros, a 2.2_percent of the total budget of the Government. And if you, from the Government of Spain, do not apply to us the tax policy that applies to us, the 18,000 million euros/year that apply to us, and the distribution, with a very simple calculation, in a linear way..., the 2,2_per_cent of these 18,000 million euros series 400_million euros, which, in addition to 727, would allow us, in Agriculture and the rural world, to have a presumption of 1,127 million euros. Do you know what it stands for, this cup? So the very same, obviously, that if we add the 18,000_million euros/year to the 32,600 that the Generalitat has in presupposition in concept of public services administered, and that would make us have a presupposition of 50,200_million euros. This would represent a 155_per_cent– 155_per_cent– of the assumption we have now. I think it sounds like that, don't you? So this is the 155 that you would have to apply to us, if you think Catalonia, and not the 155 that they applied to us. And I invite them to close their eyes and imagine which rural Catalonia we would have if we were independent. The good news is that I was early, much faster than you think. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.73.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Lluïsa Llop.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.74.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors... I want to begin today, noting an absolutely exceptional situation in this plenary of the Catalan Parliament, and it is that the fact of this motion's presentation by the PSC Group, together with the motion that we have presented since the Republican Left Group, will allow us, at least during a time, to speak of a sector that is absolutely fit for the country and that we all know that, unfortunately, we have not done it especially often, in this hemisphere. Therefore, today we can debate, even though it is with time charged and against the clock, often, therefore, these agricultural policies, stocks and fisheries that fall into the country. They can debate this rural and maritime world that is absolutely fit for us. This motion is the result of those inquiries which, in the beginning of the parliamentary term, presented from the PSC Group, we understand, following this report of the alternate government. And we got away with it – that is what Mrs Ibarra explained, in fact – that there was a great deal missing. She explained it. In any case, the good news is that the vast majority of these proposals that you are presenting to us are very much shared by us, and we share them because the Government of the Government of Catalonia, the Government of Catalonia, is really bringing them forward; these and many others that have been presented in the government plan that was presented a few days ago. I therefore understand that it is good news to know that most of the proposals that were put to us were very much in agreement. Unfortunately, in these five minutes that we have I will not be able to talk about all the points that they propose to us, but what I would like to reiterate is that we will support all those who are intimately connected with the strategic plan of food in Catalonia, which has been approved by a broad consensus and the participation of more than 350 experts. There are some measures that are linked to this, in the same way that there are measures that we absolutely share, such as the priority of strengthening the main research center, the IRTA, which, despite the difficult times that have passed, we have seen as the Government of the Generality, between 2015 and 2021, was increasing its presumption. For what it does to the two points that we have presented... In the case that it refers to the general plan of forest policy, it was very simple, the thought was: it was hoped that some objectives had not been completed and that for what reason it was. The reason is as simple as that during the duration of the plan, for a feeling, this one was suspicious. Therefore, the object was in line to be able to refer to this plan, to define a new time horizon and to adapt the themes to the reality that we have at this time. The same in the case of the emena they presented in point number 6. We understand and understand that it is not necessary to recover a tool that worked at the time, a preterior tool, as are the agricultural extension services, but what it is necessary to develop the comprehensive advisory programme that has been collected in the CAP, which before it was given that it had been made with an absolute consensus, and therefore we understand that it is a much more modern tool and much more adhering in the times we live in. In the case of ordinary papers, I want to – and I want to put it in full – thank you for these papers, because we understand that you have enriched this young man. Regret that from point 1 the issue of ‘to deal with abuses of the dominant position of the big corporations that control the oligopolises of transformation and distribution, that we absolutely share and that we understand that it is one of the important problems that give this possibility that is produced, in the end, the sale per cost. And also regret the disappearance of the point where it was asked to shield the spaces of high agricultural value and to guarantee its preservation in front of urban projects, etc., because we understood that it was also a point, although it is certain that there was some legally little concept determined, but that we share thread with you at a time. The only thing we can't share – and so we let them know – is the national pact that you are asking for in the area of the rural agenda. For us, the national pact is our own rural agenda. An agenda that makes months, weeks, that works from the territories; that, moreover, has worked from a drafting committee that has drawn it up from ARCA, ACM, the Association of Micropopulations, the Council Advisor for Sustainable Development, but that, more than..., a committee that has thirty-five motor entities that do not only represent the rural world. It will be a rural agenda, but they are entities at national level: they are entities that replenish this eminently rural visit, but where, obviously, the urban world has also felt. We talk about entities with Workers Commissions, the Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives of Catalonia, Young Farmers and Ramaders, etc. Up to and including the City and People's Network for Sustainability, where all the members of our country are represented. For us, therefore, the rural agenda is our national pact, a national pact that comes from the bottom up, the result of citizen participation, and that is what we believe we need to implement. And, yes, then it will be necessary to have mechanisms to complete this urban agenda that will be donated to us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.75.0	Thank you. And then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.76.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Counsellor, Members... The Socialist Group tabled a motion on the priorities in agriculture and rural areas: a limited, improper motion that lacks a minimum commitment to brave men and women in the countryside; a motion that resolves little or nothing the real problems of our primary sector. They talk about pacts, observatories, plans... They talk about "powering, " articulating, "inciding, "strengthening, "recovering... palaverry and more palaverry. Not a single real proposal. National Pact, Rural Agenda, Agricultural Price Observatory of Catalonia, General Forest Policy Plan, Strategic Food Plan of Catalonia, Consell Català de l'Alimentació, Institute of Research and Agri-Food Technology... The waste – around 8_million – of public subsidies to the IRTA, don't you think it could be allocated to the real needs of the rural world? Seven existing organisms, many of them dependent on the Agriculture Council. Gentlemen, do you really think there are not enough studies? Do you really think we should spend more money on chiringuitos? To finish, do you want one more? : the return to the Agricultural Extension Service. I am very drawn to the attention that the Socialist Party, the driving force behind the democratic hysterical memoir law [[relays]] , intends to recover the Servei d'Extensió Agrària – the SEA – which was established with the help of the United States by Minister Rafael Cavestany to modernize the rural world in the 1950s. Curious, that the PSC wants to start it now, again. Mrs. Ibarra, you, born in Alio, a beautiful village that lives from dry farming and poultry farming..., you know perfectly well the problems and needs of your countrymen. Do they really believe that what they need is to water public money on entities and agencies? Don't you think it would be better to water the crops in the area? The problems of your people, Mrs. Ibarra, are exactly the same as those of mine and those of the rest of the villages of Castilla, Valencia, Extremadura and all of Spain. All of them, beautiful, rich and peculiar. The problems of the peoples of Catalonia coincide with the rest of the peoples of our nation, no matter how much they weigh. Demographic problems: population decline and ageing – empty Catalonia or emptied Spain. Economic problems: the cost of production is often higher than the cost of sale, especially when working under lower conditions with other countries that import their products with unfair competition allowed and enhanced by European policies; investments in infrastructure are also required. Social problems: they have major shortcomings in health, education and all kinds of services. The reality is that our farmers, our primary sector, our rural world, are suffocated. They work from sun to sun leaving their skin so that we all have quality products, and they do so with little help from institutions, not even when nature sweeps away all their crops. Recently our rural world has suffered several disasters that have devastated all its lands and properties, and the Government of the Generalitat is unable to live up to it. Aid is scarce and late. The rural world... farmers want solutions, not verbs. In VOX we have ideas, proposals and solutions: to facilitate access to all European funds; direct aid to farms, especially families; to modernise irrigation systems; to implement policies to combat depopulation; to provide resources and direct allocations for forests, estab lishments and coastal areas. Gentlemen, the studies are already done, the problems are detected. What is required is to implement solutions. Go to the villages, listen to their people. We've already done it, and we do it every day. Pay attention to what VOX proposes. That way they won't be wrong and we'll start putting solutions. We can't go on with the demagogy. We shall vote 'no to this motion with a certain smell of waste. We urge them to visit farmers more; it will help them to know the reality of the countryside and to seek real solutions to real problems. Leave the demagogy of your 2030 globalist agenda and focus on the important. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.77.0	He then has the word, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Guanyar, M.P. Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.78.0	The days will pass and I'll still be surprised that people come out here to talk about things they have no idea about, but well, we're on. [[Rialles and some applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the PSC, it seems that he has agreed with Esquerra to present motions on the rural world and the agenda – said before Mrs Llop. We share that it is a matter of vital importance for our territorial cohesion as the country in defense of a more balanced economic model and that you do not put, for example, for the tourism monoculture, as it passes to the Pyrenees. In the case of the SCP, we understand that the young woman sweeps various things: the rural agenda, the preus observatories, forestry policy, the strategic plan of food... Perhaps – perhaps – she would have been better focused on one _of_sole, develop it... For example, to deepen, as we will later set out, in the Esquerra motion, on the rural agenda, which is very important to ensure that this participatory process is implemented effectively. We do not see the first point – other parliamentary groups have said this – which calls for a national pact for rural development and against depopulation. You, like us, participated on 21 September in the presentation of the drafting process of the strategic document in relation to the rural agenda, and we do not understand its proposal or share it, because the rural agenda has a proposal for a model of governance suitable for it, and therefore we understand that it does not, this pact. In the end, do you know what's going on? In the end, what's going on is we're going to put so many bubbles in it that we're going to lose the content. This is our impression. If you want to defend something, you can defend the agenda, which is ultimately a basic document for the government. We understand, therefore, that we do not therefore have a pact. We are also being offered by Preus de Catalunya's Agri-Food Observers to ensure that the detailed determination of the cost of production prices of the products is carried out. We defend that the price observer is to give transparency to the market and to know the real prices to which the products come, and not to fix the price of cost. The cost price... is as simple, or not, as making it a little study. And we think that the cost-of-production study might or would be more appropriate than the fessin, for example, the IRTA or the UdL. The price observer must serve, as the name says, to observe the market, and we can use it to know production costs. I'm going to review the general plan of forestry policy. I believe that Mrs Llop said this before: this plan fell for an appeal, for the lack of citizen participation and for the failure of Catalan nature protection laws. And, therefore, as they have done... let us hope, therefore, that this new forest policy plan will not fall into those mistakes that the Ecologists organization denounced in Action, and therefore that a participatory plan will emerge, as it should be, that a plan will emerge that will complete the protection laws. And, for that matter, let's hope that's the way it is. And yes, and in that we do agree – Mr Ordeig, be careful, that this interests you –... we agree to articulate a hub to incorporate new technologies, improve the competitiveness of the food industry and focus in a special way on the craft and proximity industry, research and development in the field of agriculture and IRTA. That's why on September 23rd – and you know very well, Mr. Ordeig – with the mayor of Yours, Mr. Francesc Vilaplana, after a meeting held with the director of the UPC of the Assembly of Yours, Bernat Lavaquiol, we announced the creation of a working table to create a search and development center for the drive and formatting to Yours of Urgell, a country proposal that fits into everything that you defend in this proposal: a food industry hub that affects the food industry and that is public, taking advantage of the connections of IRT and UdL, as we have already exposed to your Rector. Soon you will start working on this project via the work table, which of course your municipal group..., we hope, Mr Ordeig, that your municipal group will be invited to join you. We hope, therefore, their participation and support in this project, which is a bet in the defense of small and medium-sized farms engulfed in the territory, in defense of food sovereignty and the country's pagesia. Finally, it is also necessary to strengthen the IRTA because it serves as a benefit to all people – agricultural and non-agricultural – and not as a benefit to large-scale agro-industry. She's a young lady, as we said, in what we share points, not others. And, therefore, we will already expose it, but we will ask for a vote on points. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.79.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.80.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, councillor... Mrs Ibarra and the Socialist Group have today tabled one of the two motions that, in principle, we will have to debate about the rural world. And, in fact, a little, so, as my companions have done, we will do the same: we will talk a little or reflect on this rural world, in this case, from a perspective, ours, the liberal, which in principle can bring some different visions or differences from those I have listened to at this time or before me. There's been talk that I'm starting... that there's territorial cohesion. In this case, I would begin to define what is the rural world or what seems to be the rural world; what is the evolution, also, of this rural world, of the concept of the rural world during, including history. Mr. Ferro used to talk about the last three centuries; we could talk about the rural world, including the Neolithic, so a concept exists for human societies. And in this case, I think we have to mention it this way. And, in fact, it has also been mentioned that there is a certain clear relationship between the rural world and the urban world: when the urban world, in this case, has remained polarizing, has remained dynamic, has remained attractive, the rural world has often passed badly. We have examples in history, such as the low Roman Empire, as it goes from urban society to a farming society that ends up in the middle ages, or in the 19th century, with the industrial revolutions that we find all over Europe and also in Catalonia and Spain. We also saw it here, so, with all the movements of internal migration to Spain and of movement from the camp to the city; to Catalonia also, before the Civil War and after this war, especially in the sixties. So when we talk about territorial cohesion, we obviously have to talk about both the camp – in this case, the rural world – and the city. We are obviously talking about a series of conditions that are also important, in this case, as the population is now. This movement of people, therefore, has often assumed that the rural world does not have the right or correct policies that we would ask for. Here I want to pose a little, so... in this case, I want to claim the figure of my company, of the ancient agricultural spokesman, Francisco Domínguez, who always said that in the camp practically there are no more young people. In Francisco he did... he's an agronomist and he's working as an agronomist right now, but he's always done a very good job in this Parliament during the last few legislatures, and he was one of the things that he expressed most and said most, and, in fact, he's right. We believe that one of the great conditions we have, in this case, denial, is population, population movement, and also the aging of the population we have in Catalonia, but all of Spain and possibly all of Europe. It has also been mentioned that there are movements to recover from the rural world throughout Europe. We believe that there are solutions and that there is a whole series of liberal measures, in this case, which must also work for the rural world. One is innovation. There has been no talk of innovation here, but I believe that in the rural world innovation must be made, and innovation must also be made. And in Catalonia we're not very good at innovation. The 2019 Regional Innovation Scoreboard, for example, tells us that the evolution we have in terms of innovation policies in Catalonia has been a reduction in the places we've had in recent years. But there are examples and innovation policies, like, for example, what is done with the vine industry in Penedès, adapting, therefore, the tourist offer to all this. As I said, we like to talk... as a geographer, I really like to talk about the relationship between the camp and the city, and so I could be here... Time was running out, and so good part of what I haven't said yet, so I'll say it later. But this young man, whom we will vote for practically in all his points, we believe that he has, in this case, competed with the Republican Left in the absence, obviously, of ambition, because in the end what they are doing... I think we will find a..., yes, an accommodation in the vote and a certain unanimity, but in the end the most important one – and that too my companion Francisco Domínguez –, what we need, is a premise, more money for the rural world. Then we can talk about cohesion and the camp-city relationship, so with the right and correct ones. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.81.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.82.0	Thank you, President. In a very telegraphic way, to explain the reason for the abstention that we would vote on this motion, which will be the same as we would vote on the next one and for very similar arguments – therefore, the explanation that I will do now serves perfectly for the next one too. And it's exactly the same argument because the political debate mechanism reminds us a lot of what happened, forewarned, from the Nature Agency, and it was an identical debate. First phase: they presented motions with a new terminology – « observatories, « integral plans... In the second instance, after the debate of the motions, they proceeded to the constitution of more functional structures, some with a little sense, of other absolutely useless. And finally, the most relevant of all: the limitation of the ability of farmers and farmers to control their own spaces for the sake of environment and functioning, with all the respect that both environments and environments deserve, but that they can never replace in certain questions the owners, who are at the head and at the end the first interested in sustainability. They're not some kind of environmental promoter, because, among other things... they do live from this; not us, they do. And this is the final reason for which the Agency of Nature at the time took on a very considerable respite in the rural world. I don't know whether I'm a majority or not, but it's obvious that a lot of considerable, as Members of other political groups know perfectly well, that, as I was touched, they participated in all that process here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Here comes distrust and forbearance. Because, yes, the music sounds good, in front of the agrarian neolingua that transmit these motions. Both this and the later, which speaks of the rural agenda..., are the same..., the same terminology that we saw in the case of the Agency of Nature. And, frankly, some things can be positive, but other things have absolutely nothing to do with the concrete problems – that some, certainly, and paradoxically, did not do anything about Juntes' portfolio for Catalonia –..., that are very concrete and that are not precisely solved with observers or with this type of comprehensive plans and various stories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.83.0	All right. So now, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.84.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly, because in two minutes and I don't..., it doesn't give us time. Let's start with the end. To the spokesman of the Grup Mixt, tell him that... He said: "The music sounds good to us. Maybe if you participated more actively in the commissions... basically, if you participated in the agricultural commissions, they wouldn't even hear the letter. Then, to the deputy of VOX, look, I know perfectly well the needs of my countrymen, but maybe you don't know them. In fact, they say they have ideas and proposals, but we would also like to listen to them in committee, because really, say so, their portfolio of proposed masses does not set us up. And of course: IRTA, "Siringuito; with this alone there is enough, and demonstrates their disenfranchisement. To Mr Vergés, who is accustomed to hand over to us books of good and bad Catalans and of those we think and do not think Catalonia, myri, his speech has been a clear show of nationalism out of hand and rancid, and what we ask of him is a bit of respect. The PSOE is one of the three founding formations of our party, and we ask for respect for an organization that was the founder of the PSC and that, moreover, has a democratic historical tradition that few can match. [[Some applause.]] And, lastly, the exams, and very quickly. Give thanks to the parliamentary groups that have submitted papers, especially to Mr Ferro and Mrs Llop, with whom we have been able to work. And, quite briefly, it is difficult for us not to have maintained, in fact, the theme of the national pact against depopulation and the struggle for territorial cohesion, because I believe that they are complementary to the rural agenda. And we have been able to make a deal which seems very important to us, which is in the matter of the offices that we have in the agricultural extension offices, which has ended up being a programme of follow-up of farmers, of the branches, in their work. What we proposed was a mechanism because that knowledge that is being made in universities and in the IRTA wanders, say, to the producers, and I think that in this formula of the program can be very good. Therefore, to thank them, once more, their whole and their contributions. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.85.0	Are there separate voting petitions? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.86.0	Request separate vote from point 1, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.87.0	U. Perfect. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.88.0	To ask for separate vote of '1 and 2, they cannot go together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.89.0	Perfect. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.90.0	Yeah. He asked for a separate vote on '1', '2', '3', '4', '9' and '10'.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.91.0	And on 3, 4, 9 and 10, could we vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.92.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.93.0	Perfect. So let's start voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1 was not approved, with 40 votes in favour, 85 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved, with 111 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 12 abstentions. We will now vote on points 3, 4, 9 and 10. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 120 votes in favour and 14 abstentions. And, finally, the rest of the points of the motion: 5, 6, 7 and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 130 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the rural agenda]] [[302-00032/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the rural agenda, presented for the Republican Left Group. And you have the word, to expose it, Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.94.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... we're talking about the rural world, agriculture, and I think it's good, right? We have not coordinated, but it is good news that today we can be discussing such structural issues as food and territorial cohesion in our country. With this reason we have presented the Republican Left Group what we want to claim, precisely, the importance of this territorial cohesion. And he said to someone: territorial cohesion must be understood as a global country visit, with a necessary dialect of the rural world and the urban world. But, you know, seeing the priors of... , and the trajectory of many years ago, to put the emphasis, in a definitive way, on the rural development and on the importance of this rural agenda that is driving the advice of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda. An initiative that the rural world has been demanding for many years, that is to ruralize policies and administration – therefore, to promote policies adapted to the diversity of our territory – and Catalonia is fortunate to be a country with many specificities and territorial and ecosystem diversity, and therefore with many opportunities and challenges. And, in this sense, we promoted this interdepartmental committee, which was the origin of this rural agenda. And we can congratulate ourselves, I believe, all that it is a referent at European level, with the methodology with which it has been driven, with the good ways of doing business of the ARCA, the Association of Micropopulations, the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development – CADS – ; with a participatory process that, as we have said before, has this bottom-up philosophy, from the top-down base, with a municipalist brand, listening to the municipal diversity of our territory. But not only that: also with the active agents that drive welfare and socio-economic development. And if we look at the map of the entities that have participated, we see that all the regions, absolutely all, including the metropolitan area, have been active, with different profiles and different sectors involved in the development of the rural agenda. And it ends with concrete actions, with actions to boost this development, innovation and dynamism of the agri-food system to benefit and the democratic challenge and, above all, to the ecological transition. Because what we want is for these concrete measures to be applied and applicable. And here it is important, as has been said, to govern, because, as we say, we want this ruralisation of policies and administration, driving this co-responsibility of the different levels of administration, favoring this transversalization in the different departments and spheres of government, and with this integral vision as the Generality, as the government, of what must be the development of our rural world. This rural agenda is perfectly linked, as I said before, with this long-term vision for the rural areas of the European Union, objective 2040, which is moving forward, and also with this measure, which is already a pioneer at European level, which is the French rural agenda. In this sense, which drives the Catalan rural agenda..., they have been invited, for example, to participate in forums on this subject in France, and, of others, driven by the European Network for Rural Development and the European Commission itself. We are clear, despite everything, that it is urgent to push this rural agenda forward, its approval and its deployment, and, I insist, to assume it as a repte de pays. That is why, through our motion, we are asking for ratification in this Parliament of the government agreement to come into force; that this..., and it is created a space of concertation, a space of concertation and then well-participated for all these municipal and territorial agents. Obviously, also, as some previous Members say, the presuppositional endowment. We have a fiscal structural deficit in Catalonia, yes, but we need to make efforts and demand the necessary funding. Also push an intergroup here in Parliament to make clear the transversality and the necessary coordination of its follow-up. And that is why we ask the different parliamentary groups to ask for the rural agenda of Catalonia, which makes clear to the whole of the city the transcendence of this country's cohesion and which also makes explicit the commitment of this institution to the people who live in each of our regions. We want to put people in the centre, too, with this rural agenda for the generational replenishment, for the equality of all people on a visquin – also in Catalonia – and for the well-being and progress, boosting social economy, promoting innovation and promoting local economies in the territory. At the same time, I appreciate the good predisposition, if not, that I've felt before in different groups – or most. And we are very clear that what we are pushing here is something very involved, very shared and years ago asked for. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.95.0	Thank you. She continues to have the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to Advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.96.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... territorial cohesion is an obvious necessity. We haven't spoken before, we're not talking now. There must be communities in Catalonia that lose people, and where they don't lose people globally, there are different realities between the larger towns or cities, which many times attract people, which is what is lost in the smaller towns. In addition, a study by two professors of the UdL poses a manifesto that there are two hundred people from all of Catalonia who are at risk of disappearance in the next thirty years. Before this, they came out initiative, they came out organization, that, before this reality and above all before the time that can be expected, therefore, they are mobilizing. And here we have the ARCA, there are the Ways for the Rural Repopulation, there are the Rural Country... So, we have plataform forces that have been organized, don't we? Therefore, a reality that we live, that worries us, but that is not exclusive to Catalonia. We find the same reality to the rest of Spain, and we see that the Government of Spain has given it the import it deserves through the creation of the State Secretariat for the Democratic Repte, from the Ministry for the Ecological Transition, with a presumption of 10,000_million euros and one hundred and thirty measures, or other communities that have taken measures, already, to bring about this reality. We find powerful measures, for example, in the Valencian Community, which designed the strategy before 2030, to diagnose but above all to act and reverse the situation, with a presumption of 685_million euros. Or the law that promoted Castella - La Manxa, economic, social and tax measures against depopulation and for the development of the countryside, with an impact of 600_million euros. Or the one who is pushing into Asturias, Aragó or Galicia, who have specific laws, already, to work on this topic. Therefore, measures that are being driven to different parts of Espanya. And Catalonia? So we're still in a diagnostic phase in Catalonia, we might say. So, when we hear it, let's go late. And look, we need to put into value the task that ARCA has made – the Association of Rural Initiatives of Catalonia – which we also talked about before: a task of participation, a task of seeking what people who live in the countryside think, respects the needs that exist and how they can generate dynamics that promote territorial cohesion. Therefore, a good task, but it is basically diagnosis and proposals that need to be prioritized and above all materialized. And this government can't take any longer and can't commend anyone, it has to lead. That the government is immediately able to push concrete initiatives to reverse the situation of population loss. And I look, both at the appearance of ARCA at the committee in Parliament and at the meeting where we have been with the different plataforms, it is said that there is enough, by diagnosis, that we can act and that we can promote concrete measures, so that we are late. And you are presenting us with a motion that, obviously, we can vote on, we would practically vote for it all in favour, but it is a motion that is a declaration of intent. We are talking about the need for social cohesion, the approval of the rural agenda document and its urgent deployment – it would simply be lacking, obviously – to promote territorial cooperation, plan actions and equip them sufficiently. But here we have to stop: we do not know what it means enough. How much will you enter in the next assumption that is being prepared? – which seems to be approved perhaps in November or December, right? , in this hemicicle. Therefore, will we have time to record in each of the departments their share of this struggle against depopulation? There is also talk of better infrastructure; of the deployment of the law of agrarian space, a law that is already approved – therefore, it would only be lacking, that we do not deploy it – and they also speak of the modernization of regadius, but neither tell us what they will be destined for it. We have Urgell's channel, we have Segarra-Garrigues, we have Xerta-Sénia... The president in the general policy debate referred to it, but we don't know what they're going to do with all this. And they also talk about promoting the social and cooperative economy and promoting policies and actions to ensure full equality; so we can't agree more. Therefore, a young person without economic or temporal concreteness, and this does us the effect that serves very little. That's why our group has presented two points that we think we could take: one that sets out the follow-up to this rural agenda document through the sessions that are still needed by the committee – we could reach an agreement with the proposing group, and in this sense we would make the commissions compatible with the intergroup – and a second one that asked for the 100_millions to make not all the measures effective, obviously, but... that it could be an initiative, that it could be a start for, yes, to put some of it down... so, already work there, right? Therefore, good intentions, few concrete actions. And it could go from good intentions to fact, right? In this they will find us at their side, to reverse the depopulation and fight for territorial cohesion, and to do so from a full view, of country, and to do so also from the hand of all administrations: from the assemblies, which are the first involved, but also from the State Administration, in particular from the Secretariat for the Democratic Rep. This is the only way to create synergies between all administrations and all people and Catalans living in rural areas, but also in urban areas, to be able to have a cohesive and equal country for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.97.0	Thank you. And then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Antonio Ramón López.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.98.0	Good morning, President. Members... well, I must be one of those who have no idea, too, right? [[Widow's remorse.]] I can assure you we know a lot more than you think. I've actually taken many potatoes, many apples, many pears, and I've bent the back a lot; you just need to look at it to know that you've never folded it. [[Some applause.]] Currently in Catalonia there are 336 micropopulations that represent thirty-five percent of the territory and thirty-five percent of the municipalities in which only two_per_cent of the population lives. We cannot deny the situation of rural depopulation – the empty Catalonia – or the loss of entrepreneurial activity in the agricultural sector, and this is compounding this situation: the lack of generational renewal in the field of agriculture. According to the National Institute of Statistics, the majority working population in the agriculture sector is sixty years old, and the same is true in the livestock sector – as I like, Mr Juvillà, to be attentive. In view of this alarming situation known to all, our parliamentary group presented in June and July several proposals to achieve balance and adaptation to environmental disturbances and local, social and economic development in rural areas. We put forward a motion for a resolution in defence of the Catalan private sector on 22 June; another motion for a resolution in defence of the forestry sector, tabled on 23 July, presenting seven measures to promote a regional forestry policy plan; a proposal for a resolution on rural depopulation in Catalonia, presented on 22 June, presenting twenty measures: measures such as the implementation of programmes to detect new employment and business sites to diversify the rural economy; measures to simplify administrative and bureaucratic procedures to speed up the development of projects and initiatives to revive the rural environment; effective measures to promote the co-ownership of agricultural holdings and to develop a plan for the promotion of women in rural areas; specific measures to ensure access to education from zero to three years in areas of demographic priority, including a programme of grants to families to facilitate access to all nuclei that do not have this service; measures to increase employment dedicated to the conservation and care of nature and protected areas. And so, up to twenty. In addition, we have put forward a proposal on the Segarra-Garrigues channel, being aware of the importance and necessity of irrigation for our farmers and the rural world. From VOX we defend our farmers and farmers. We do not participate in initiatives like this, where they impose radical and gender ideology on agricultural policies that have nothing to do with the real needs of the agricultural sector. You only look at your political interests. That is why I inform you that our vote will only be in favour of those points that really benefit the sector, and against all the others. And, finally, in the last plenary sessions, even in this one, I realized that they only speak of ‘country' – of‘country' – and close interventions saying: ‘Visca Catalunya lliure. Well, here I have to give you the reason: I also want a free Catalonia, but free from its ideological impositions, free from its totalitarian project, free from its rupturist agenda, which all it brings is division, crime and ruin. Come down from the clouds, for there is only one country; there is only one free country, and it is Spain. And be assured that sooner or later we will recover Catalonia for the great national project that is Spain. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.99.0	He then has the word, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Guanyar, M.P. Pau Juvillà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.100.0	Come on, come on, we're-there. [[Rialles.]] Mr. Lopez, my resume is in LinkedIn and I can look at it when you want. It also came out when I went to pick fruit. If he needs it, he can look at it, it's open, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] In any case, I do remember vividly his intervention after an hour and a half of presentation of the rural agenda by four collections. I think it was from, uh, three seconds, two seconds? Leave him here. Anyway, I won't waste any more time. What's worth to us is the young man who presents us Esquerra. He presents us with a young man in whom it seems we can't agree more. He talks about claiming the need for real territorial cohesion in Catalonia – we agree –; developing the rural agenda and creating a follow-up area – we agree –; cohesion... His young lady's music sounds good to us. Well, well of all..., we lie; a little, no. There's a part that says, "Continue the work of the Segara-Garrigues, and we're raffling a little bit of the nose, when we hear about the Segara-Garrigues. And let's remember that in 2016, in a critical article, journalist David Marín – besides Balaguer – said that in 2013 an internal report of the Generalitat warned that the cost overrun could reach, in the worst scenario, a eighty-u_per_cent over the forecast, and that the awards of the first years of works had been made over forty_per_cent of the market value. Since then, all attempts to demand an audit of the accounts and to open an investigation commission in Parliament have been rejected. And he also said in this article that there are some views in the territory that have risen to denounce that the cost of the pages to move to the intense realm will be so high that they will only be served by the great agri-food operators. See? It would have been well – we think – to put an investigation commission and an audit on this motion. Sometimes we get the impression that in some things you don't dare. And perhaps it would be fine, since it is about rural agendas, to know what the degree of government compromise will be with the measures proposed for the agenda; if it will be a plan approved with the government with compromises over all assumptions; that it will consist of the creation of indicators to know the level of compliments of the implementations of the measures; that it will be recorded as being assessed – if it is done through a board of independent experts with objective indicators of the type of the Rural Observers or of another type; to know how people and entities involved in the drafting of the agenda will return; to clearly describe whether it is the creation of a Catalan rural parliament species – before the Ministry of Justice refers to the rural model, or to the rural parliament.... And it remains, of course, if the compromise of the agenda is cross-cutting in the government or will be a compromise to be implemented from the general direction of the rural agenda; which is defined if there will be any observer figure because legislation and government agreements do not follow what happens sometimes, which is a central urban biax. We find this missing, in your young lady; we are short, in this sense. Ours..., will be a yes, for the most part; we will ask for a specific vote for the intercommission. That's why we're following him. And we're also left with... there's a part of your young lady who's talking about the law of agrarian space that they want to develop in this legislature. To us this – and before you spoke, Mrs Serret, of the French model – we are left with it, and I explain: it is very advisable to read this month's Direct, which speaks of the battle for the earth. And we think it's very recommendable because there are aspects... I've got a minute left and I'd like to read a couple of important things that you say: « There are 25,585 farms that make up an eleven_per_cent of UAA – the agricultural area used–, and 1,616 that make up thirty-four_per_cent. What does that show us? It shows us that during the 2018 financial crisis global finance agents discovered a new market on redirecting the actions that were no longer profitable in a failed real estate sector. Therefore, these oligopolises, these reversals, have devoted part of their investment to buying and taking over this agricultural land, which we believe is a very important aspect that is having a hard impact on our small and medium pages. The article goes on..., I allow myself a small part. Francesc Pena, de Lleida, said: « We have had to diversify because we have recently entered much capital away from the land. Send land buyers who talk to all owners and understand them or find all the plots to create large farms. There are only two or three companies or funds to invest, but they have the capital to move what you need. According to an investigation by the Mundubat Foundation and the magazine Food Sovereignty, the Spanish state has more than thirty investment funds that invest in food agriculture that take a large share of production from these lands. We believe that it is necessary to defend the small and medium-sized pagery against this land grabbing, against this oligopolistic. We asked, in the general policy debate, that the possibility be attached to the Generality having the right to acquire agricultural land directly or through its enterprises and entities, such as this rule, which is defined in the law of agricultural land, exercising the rights of money and withdrawal in case of sale, exchange or payment. Therefore, we understand that it is essential to defend the small page or to establish this right of aunt and retract, to establish it already. And what we're going to do is vote "yes, in favor of this young man, and keep insisting that that's what it is. Madam Counselor, let's leave the magazine in case you're interested in reading it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.101.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.102.0	Thank you very much, President. I've already told the previous intervention that I'd probably split it in two, because I was running out of time. It is clear that the agricultural and timber crisis is central to what is happening in rural Catalonia, not only in Catalonia, but also to the rest of the European countries, but we understand that there are other elements that also explain what is happening in the rural world and that, therefore, this rural agenda must help us to place us at the centre of the political debate. One is clear: the crisis of public and Community services in the territory. It is a crisis that has been going on since ancient times, that we have obviously not resolved in these forty years of democracy and that, moreover, has been accentuated in the last ten or fifteen years of retail policy. And it is a crisis, also, the result of a continuous disinvestment in infrastructures, in infrastructures that must ensure that the people of the rest of the country must also be able to access public services of quality in terms of education, health, but also of culture or mobility within the territory. And there is, undergroundly, also, a crisis of opportunity. Most young people... I've lived almost all my life in a small village in the Segarra of two hundred inhabitants; I practically didn't plan to continue living in my village when I finished studying, because I obviously knew I wouldn't find work. And I think this is a crisis that is repeated many places and that has to see not only how productive opportunities have been lost from the territory, but also how we have replaced them. In the Segarra we surely have the luck – and the disintegration – that there is the agricultural cooperative, and therefore there is no problem of occupation, but there are many areas of the territory where the different occupations have been replaced by the tourism monoculture, and therefore there is little demand for work, which is seasonal and which, moreover, is of low productive quality. And it's a problem that repeats the territory. That we also need a thought, and we need a thought now that we have before us the opportunity to take advantage of European funds, to take advantage of public funds, to generate policies of estimation and to bet on productive sectors that we believe can be an engine for the territory of Catalonia. And then there's a theme that always goes through the night and that for us doesn't explain the crisis that the territory saw, but many of the conflicts, that are the contradictions that arise in the hour of thinking about the country's economic transition. And we are aware that it is generating conflict, that it will generate conflict, but for us they are partial conflicts. I believe that it is clear that the current agricultural model and rowing, which has been based on access to cheap energy resources, to cheap chemical fertilizers, to intensive uses of energy and materials, has also expired. And, therefore, if we are not able to build the energy transition in these economic spaces, they will also fail in time. And, therefore, the challenge is how we guarantee that the primary sector of our country is also right in the energy transition. And that means being able to arrange policies for the territory, and being able to arrange them with the actors of the rural world in the same way that we do with the rest of the country's actors, because they are neither more nor less than anyone else. And, therefore, there is one thing that is fundamental to us, of this rural agenda, and it is that I reversed the relationship between the citizenship of the rural world and the different governments of the State. Because one of the elements that has failed in our country from the retail policy is the customer relationship that has been built in this country for forty years and that transformed the parliamentary oblivion that we have had for many years in rural Catalonia into a sort of market that still wants to continue in our country and that wants to continue to build chanting: "If there are no Olympic games in Pirinaeus, maybe there is no use of shooting in Pirinaeus. This cannot be a fair relationship between a government and its territory. And we could lay down the Hard Rock, we could lay down all these infrastructures that are coming out. And, therefore, for us the rural agenda is also the ability to invest this relationship: let it be the rural world, let it be the citizenship of the country that is thinking of itself, which is fixed objective and which requires the different governments to fulfil their commitments, and not the other way around. Therefore, we will give support to this young man. We hope that there will be a rural agenda that will be able to reverse this relationship between the governments and the people and micro-people of this country, and that there will be an agenda that will be able to set itself objective and demand that the government put the piles in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.103.0	Thank you very much. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Joan García has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.104.0	President, deputies, deputies, councillor... I wanted to start with a preview. Mr Juvillà, really respect... I think it's good to respect the opinions of the rest of the Members. It is good that you come here and try to make jokes of opinions outside your own, but one thing I have learned in all these years – hard years – since 2015 that I am a Member, is that basically respect the rest of the Members and their opinions is essential so that we can have a simply democratic debate and that there is some tolerance in it. And, besides, you're at the table. I therefore believe that these values should be valued. You're part of the Bureau, if I don't get it wrong. Nothing more, just that. [[Some applause.]] We find ourselves with a second part of the same debate we've seen before. Obviously, today we met with the second declaratory part of these motions. There is a lot of – in fact, every time – assembly of the royal government to the alternate government, and the alternation to the real, and even they could approve and make joint proposals. I think, in this case, they're very empty. The Republican Left, in fact, is still more emptied, because yes, as Mrs. Ibarra said, so it's just a set of statements that we could all add up to. You are obviously talking about the need for real territorial cohesion. Again, it is clear that, because there is real territorial cohesion, there must be cohesion and an interrelationship between the urban and rural worlds, which have been influenced throughout history. I haven't said it before, but one of the things that's more important today is that there's a population recovery in the rural world – the Observer of the Rural World believes that 2019 was the time to say it, and 2020 was the time to say that 2019 already had this recovery. And, in fact, this recovery we believe – and many experts say this – that it will be even more evident after the pandemic, with formulas..., new labor relations – like teletreball – that will allow us, therefore, that the rural world can also, in this case, serve to make or to carry out some of the activities that are part of urban life, right? , to say the least. So, I think a good part of what they say is claims that we could all share. We're already getting ahead of him that what we're gonna do is we're gonna abstain from the whole show. We can't stand against everything they say, because it's obvious that it's complicated, so, do it, but we don't see more than a whole series of proposals, a whole series of facts, that they should already do or take over the... well, in this case, the execution. The rural agenda, in this case, is already working. For us the rural agenda, in the end, the one that ends up assuming is, therefore, a retraction, a delay, many times, of what it is intended to implement or of the policies of the rural world or of the rural gaze, which, in this case, we believe are not going to term. Let's say again and let's talk about the presupposition; we can do many rural agendas and a lot of work on the rural world, but we have already seen it in other projects that have been completed in this Parliament: if there are no presuppositions for this implementation, it will be complicated. We believe that it is important for the balance and cohesion of the rural world, in this case, of our entire autonomous community, of all Catalonia, that this rural world and this rural agenda can serve as a counterbalance or balance formula, in this case, with the urban world, but we do not see an adequate formula. And I will set an example, to end – I don't have any more time – of what they say in this young man. You talk, for example... I think it's in point 1, letter c, that they talk about the agrarian spaces, and also, further ahead, in point 6, they talk about developing the law of agrarian spaces to protect them. I mean, they make a claim, and then they talk about a law. But it's just that this law has already been approved in the last legislature. So start working, develop it. You're part of the groups that support the government. Don't ask us a question because we vote that you, in this case, will do the work that you should already be doing. Well, yes, it's an obvious thing, like so many others, but... we will abstain – it was an example. It's good to talk about the rural world, to end, but I think if we go to this rate, we'll go through it badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.105.0	Thank you, Mr. García. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.106.0	Yes, thank you, President. Simply to translate the forbearance into the terms I explained in the previous motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.107.0	Thank you very much. So, finally, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the word Joan Carles Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.108.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's a pleasure, as my companions have said, to be able to talk about the rural world here in the Parliament of Catalonia. It would also be a good thing that Parliament is not empty when we talk about the rural world, as unfortunately it has also been today. I will not be able to make a technical intervention in respect of today's motion, because, like the mayor of rural people, my voters would not allow me, they would not understand. That is to say, we are very accustomed, in the rural world, to feel talking to the Parliament about solutions, about solutions to avoid this territorial imbalance that we have suffered from a long time ago, and we are tired of feeling it for a long time and that there are no definitive solutions. That is to say, there are many times that from the Panadella to the west, from the Artesa de Segre to the north and from the Hospitallet de l'Infant to the south, so we feel quite far away from the metropolitan area of Barcelona, and I think the time has come to put all this together. Therefore, we will obviously vote in favour of the rural agenda, because we believe that this is the solution. And, in this sense, I only have a sentence of the whole motion, a phrase that says: "Guarantee the urgent deployment of this rural agenda. He will advise, if we go out, congratulate, because this is the key back from all fold: either we do it urgently or we die – we die. And don't tell us. That is to say, there is a study – before it was mentioned – of the UdL that says: "This is the Catalonia that awaits us. The question is, is this the Catalonia we want? Or do we want a territorially balanced Catalonia? Obviously we agree: integral development of the territory, balanced development of policies adapted to the diversity of rural conditions, social justice, competitiveness, diversification, economy, prosperity, democratic and territorial sustainability, cohesion of the country, full equality, etc. We spend a lot of time talking in those terms. Today he has spoken again, very technical interventions have been made, but the people of territories want solutions. We want to resolve urgently because we are dying, because depopulation exists and because the axes that must mark the future and that this rural agenda will mark – let's hope – is what offered us the other day in Lluís Corominas to the Committee on Agriculture, which is not to depopulate, repopulate, repopulate – not to depopulate, repopulate, repopulate. If we can do this, we'll save the territory, have territorial cohesion, etcetera, and everything you see behind you; if we don't, we don't have country, we don't have territorial cohesion, and we die. This UdL study says there are two hundred municipalities at risk of critical depopulation; risk of critical depopulation of two hundred municipalities in all of Catalonia. We had a meeting with the Eines for the Rural Repopulation, and there they said to us: "What can you do, as Members of Parliament? What can you do, our territorial deputies, in Barcelona? I'm gonna talk to you. And there was the socialists' company, there was us, there was Esquerra..., there were many parties. And tothom came in solutions: people and welfare, democratic repte, ecological transition, territories connected to fiber, agri-food system, etc. And I was listening, and at the end I thought, "No, because that's already technical and we know it. We are here to create collective awareness of territorial imbalances. Either we believe it or we die. And we all have to believe it: not just the territories, but the ones I am from Barcelona. Why, as I said before, is every time from Panadella to the west, farthest from the metropolitan area of Barcelona? Why do we feel like this? Because this territorial consciousness does not exist. If we were talking about the airport today, it would be the full hemicicle; as we are talking about territorial rebalancing, so there are many Members missing. One of the conclusions of the study we talked about before: in these municipalities, for the current demographic structure, it will only be possible to reverse the situation with quotas of young people migrated. Perhaps I should translate it into the castle for those who, from fears of migration in our solar homeland, do not want to know king. And finally, because I don't have much time left... to change the relationship. It is basic that in relation to the actions of the rural world they are seen as strategic, as functional for the country, throughout the country. It is necessary to internalize and transfer to the collective consciousness that is now more necessary than ever to change the speech. If this is the Catalonia of the future, it will not only not be an independent Catalonia, it will be a more dependent Catalonia than ever, it will be a territorially unbalanced country, it will be a dead country. From what we say is the Catalonia we want from the future. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.109.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.110.0	Thank you, President. I'll try to be brief and get some ideas on everything that's been said. Obviously, we appreciate the opportunity to negotiate the papers with the Ibarra MP. First of all, I believe that there is an idea that I think everyone should share: based on victimism and maintaining – which I hope I do not – that we are still able to break what companion Lucas Ferro had to say, those relations – that we have kept – this inability to develop as the rural world does not come out of it. And that's why the Rural Agenda bet – I think we all agree – is that it's based on concrete actions, listening to all the municipalities and all the territories and social workers. And, above all, here..., two elements that coincide – concrete actions –: with a governance system that allows me to give transparency and follow up on how it is developed and implemented, and, above all, with assumptions. And here, of course, all the parliamentary groups who are demanding adjusted assumptions hope that they will also defend that they will end up with the fiscal and structural financing deficit that Catalonia suffers from, and that they will always say all their support in this. This motion obviously did not replace the content of the rural agenda; the rural agenda has been very participatory, and this motion is the only one that will launch are the great elements that we believe, as we hope, that must have this rural agenda. And here, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, please, we can do more research and then we can go into the details of some of the proposals that they have said, that we can certainly find ourselves, like doing a territorial development follow-up to the irrigation projects – because they are strategic, the irrigations, before the climate crisis –, like continuing to push and take on the opposite side of the reversal fund – that they don't just take over land, but also exploitation, and therefore production, that goes on after the targets of some irrigation funds – and also as a boost to this social economy that provides services and innovation. Finally, it is vital for rural development to be equal. Without giving to the rural world, there is no generational replete, there is no economic diversification, there is no social innovation. So, ladies, yes, always. The rural world is strategic. And because tolerance must also always be on the fundamental rights, visca Catalunya free of fascism. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.111.0	There was a separate vote petition from point 2 by the Popular Unity Candidacy. [[David Cid Colomer asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.112.0	Separate vote also from point 6.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.113.0	Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.114.0	Vote separately on 6.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.115.0	Okay. All right. So we'll start by voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved, with 105 votes in favour and 29 abstentions. We're voting point number six now, letter c. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 82 votes in favour and 52 abstentions. We're voting point six now, letter f. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 106 votes in favour and 28 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 114 votes in favour and 20 abstentions. We raise the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.116.0	Good afternoon. Let's resume the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into airport infrastructure]] [[302-00027/13]] If you occupy your seats, we will start with the twenty-two point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the airport infrastructure presented by the Joint Group. To expose this young man, has the word Mrs. Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.117.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Good profit, because it seems to me that we're still half digesting the dinar. Well, so today we're introducing this young man, who we think is important that he approve, because what we've been living for the past month and half has been like a little surreal, right? Here we made an inquiry in which the appropriate advisor answered in a very clear way, I mean, "don't go for the branches. He said: "Yes, yes, we are in favour of an extension to the Prat airport. There were jobs, there were three institutional jails where he came to agreements that also came to the conclusion that he had to push forward the expansion of the Prat airport. On August 2, an agreement between the two governments was announced, on the part of the Government of the State and the Government of the Generality, for the duration of this enlargement. In fact, the next president of Aragones literally said: "We celebrate that the expansion of the airport is part of the approval of the new Dora. And Councillor Puigneró said – and I quote literally –: "We have granted Prat an intercontinental airport with an AVE connection to the airports of Reus and Girona in twenty minutes; the infrastructure that our country's economy needs in its own years: less cost and more sustainability. I can't agree more with you, Counselor. That's August 2nd. On August 3rd, one day later, Ms. Marta Vilalta, from Esquerra Republicana, came to make a call to Esquerra Republicana to join the demonstration against the agreement of the expansion of the airport of Prat. On August 9, seven days later, we take and see in the newspapers that the Government of the State says that it paralyzes the project for a loss of confidence manifests with the Government of the Generality. And, automatically, we see Together for Catalonia the title of frivolous to Republican Left. And I have to say – it's no use before – that I can't agree more with Juntes for Catalonia. It's an absolute frivolity, everything that's been going on. This is a disproposal festival that no one understands and no one has been explained. And the citizens, suddenly and again, see how it goes from an investment of 1,700_million euros, with two new AVE stations, with an intercontinental projection of the airport, with the creation of new jobs and with an increase in the country's gross domestic product in the next few years. And they don't know why, they just see trouble between the governing partners. Therefore, we believe that it is important to clarify, and it is important that the government give explanations. You're pulling the most important investment in infrastructure in the last two years of Catalonia. I'm starting my career and they haven't given an explanation. So what we're proposing here is that there's a debate, a joint debate between the Digital and Territorial Policy Committee and the Climate Action Committee and we're talking. And that the government will appear and explain to us exactly what has happened because on seven days it is entering into an agreement for the expansion of the Prat, it is breaking this agreement, one part of the government goes to a demonstration against the enlargement and the other part opposes its governing partner saying that they are frivolous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.118.0	Thank you very much. Then he has the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy Mr Marc Parés, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group In Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.119.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, you're raising a motion in which you tell us that there's a debate about the airport, and more specifically about the differences the government has had around this issue. We agree that a debate should take place. It is also true that in the respective commissions this is happening or will occur within the next weeks. We also agree, therefore, that this debate has to be addressed or that you have felt it done to the Territorial Commission and also to the Climate Action Commission, because the project itself clearly has this environmental dimension that cannot be left out of the band. And we have presented a point, asking that this debate not focus solely on the consequences of a concrete decision and a concrete afference within the Government of the Generality, but that we believe that what is called a substantive debate, a profound debate on the issue. And, well, unfortunately, they didn't accept our emena. But I left them three considerations of why we believe that what is called a model debate, a fund debate. In the first place, before the pandemic the airport of Barcelona - the Prat had 55_million annual passengers with an increase of the annual five_per_cent, which assumed that the year 2023 could reach the saturation of the infrastructure. But of course, there's been a pandemic and we've gone from 55 to 20 million annual passengers, and now AENA's proposal wants to get us to 70 million. So the numbers say they don't have much sense at the moment. Therefore, be aware that..., and that the European air traffic has fallen by sixty_per_cent. So, here's a pandemic that clearly changes the scenario and forces us to reflect as we do, isn't it? Secondly, the pandemic has also demonstrated the strong dependence of the city of Barcelona and the country's conjunct of a sector, of a monoculture, such as the tourism sector and the need to rethink us, right? And, therefore, how dependent solely on an economic sector makes us very little resilient before the crisis as we have experienced with the pandemic. And, therefore, even though it's plausible and desirable, isn't it? Therefore, a recovery of the tourism sector in the city of Barcelona and in the country's immediate vicinity, we believe that the pandemic forces us to rethink, diversify the economy, rethink tourism and bet on more quality tourism, with a greater selection of demand and not with an increase in the number of tourists, which is associated with the model of airport growth that is growing. And, thirdly, we're on a climate emergency, and so... it's obvious, isn't it? Moreover, the European Union has clearly committed itself to achieving neutrality in 2050. So, we're in a situation where what we're asking for..., the common sense is that what we have to do is reduce CO2 emissions, and no one gets away with that air transport, so it's one of the main causes of these emissions of... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's meant. [[The timer laughs. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Well, so the planes don't emit CO2, do they? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So the planes don't emit CO2. In any case, airplanes I think emit CO2 and I think a car trip or an air trip..., we can compare which CO2 emissions... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, that's how we move. That's it, isn't it? Therefore, we can deny that planes emit CO2, but in any case, I believe that in a climate-emergency context what we need to look for is measures to reduce these emissions. And the increase in the number of flights I think is contrary to the reduction of CO2 emissions. Therefore, in this context of drastic reduction of the number of flights in the later years, of the col·lapse of the touristic monoculture and of multiple evidences of being in a climate-emergency situation, we believe that it is not the way to move forward; among other things, because there is no consensus necessary for this to happen. But in any case, as I said, because what we believe is that we need to discuss which model we want, taking into account that the situation is very different from that of a few years ago, and therefore, we cannot continue with the same incremental growth receipts of the past and we need to review the background model. In short – and I finish, eh? –, we believe that this debate is based on the fact that what we are playing at is how we get out of this crisis situation, and we can get out with a model of resilience, say, persisting, and therefore persisting in the same economic model that we had before the crises, right? , and therefore want to do the same thing we did before, which seems to be what the People's Party is proposing to us; we can get out of this crisis with an adaptive resilience model, and therefore try to adapt to this new climate change situation, with a new model of green capitalism, and therefore not change anything, but adapt to the new situation; or what we have defended, which is that it is like a transformative resilience, and therefore change the basis of the model and be able to transform this model into innovative forms, to innovate in us models of territorial development, to change our homes in the use of time, in the use of space, and also in the use of mobility. And for all this we believe that what is necessary is a question of substance, but not in the words that fall into motion. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.120.0	Thank you very much. And then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.121.0	Thank you, Madam President. Councillor, Members, Members, the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units is known to respect the expansion of the airport. We believe that the development of the Barcelona airport is a historical demand of the Catalan society and is a fundamental infrastructure for the economic recovery of the country. In just two years Barcelona airport has doubled its traffic. We are connecting, at these times, 371 routes, three hundred of them with international destinations, forty-seven long radius, among which stand out the fifteen destinations to North America, located in Llatinoamerica and set in Asia. The year 2019 – it has repeated itself until the satiety – was a definite date, in the sense that this year the installations achieved their historical transit record: almost 53_million passengers and 117,000_tons of high value cargo added that were transported from the airport of Barcelona. At present, the airport's facilities hold up to 1,050 businesses, amounting to 39,000 direct jobs and 116,000 indirect jobs. For us there is no doubt that having an airport with consolidated and dense European intercontinental connections is essential for the competitiveness of the economy of Barcelona, its metropolitan region and the country's conjunct, to be competitive with other airports with the same characteristics and the same economic regions, such as Madrid, Amsterdam, Milà, Rome, Vienna or Munic. And what we know – and we have been analysing various airport systems – there is no such thing as two airports that are connected by train. Another thing is that the airports of Girona and Reus are connected with trains to the metropolitan region and to the opposite, from the metropolitan region to Reus and Girona; we agree. We also believe that the airport of Barcelona - Prat is reaching its saturation levels and when it returns to its current post-pandemic rhythms, we will get to this situation. We need to move to ninety operations per hour, which is a fully compatible increment with environmental protection and living with the veins and veins. We agree with the agreement, worth the redundancy, that the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Puigneró, and the Minister of Transport, Mrs. Raquel Sánchez, arrived on August 2, which allowed this topic and continued to advance and analyze, didn't we? , through a master plan. We have seen the divisions that have occurred to the Government of Catalonia; they have been public and notoriety. As has also been public, and voted in this chamber, there is a majority in the Parliament of Catalonia, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, who are in favour of this transformation and expansion of the Prat airport, through a board that will end up defining all these issues. And I say that, Mr Vice-President – if I had the President of the Government too, I would say that – four months from now we will ask how to compliment this parliamentary agreement. Let's hope it's a pleasure, despite the fact that there are groups, some coalition group that doesn't like it, but the majority of Parliament is the one that respects this issue. We continue to say: « Government of Catalonia, Government of Spain, dialogue, and that the master plan defines how and when this enlargement. If not, it is Catalonia's economy that will lose it in its conjunction; Catalonia's economy, which means Catalonia's businesses, but also the workers who work in these companies, the new opportunities for work. We continue to say that we cannot let this opportunity pass, that for now it seems that the Government of Catalonia is letting it pass, and that it is necessary to regain the hope of the agreement of August 2 to which the Vice President of the Government of Catalonia and the Minister of Transport arrived. Thank you. Ah, and to announce that, as Councillor Puignero will appear the week he attends the Committee of Territories and there are also requests for various appearances, we do not believe that this specific committee is required and therefore we will not support it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.122.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.123.0	Good afternoon, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are being brought to this Parliament the issue of the enlargement of Barcelona airport. As you know, on 28 September the Council of Ministers approved the Dora airport regulation document for the period 2022-2026, which does not include the extension of the airport. It seems, therefore, that this matter has become outdated. However, progress is being made that we are going to vote in the affirmative. And we are going to do so, because we believe that a calm parliamentary debate is appropriate, in which we can understand the position of each of the parties in this chamber and, in particular, of the two governments that have intervened in the public debate. Few times, the truth, few times in life can be witnessed in a negotiation between two governments, but in which each one is formed with two partners and each one defends different things. You rarely see yourself in life. We were lucky to see it live. Thus it has happened that, in the Government of Spain, in which while the Ministry governed by the Socialist Party defended enlargement, from the vice-presidency – I do not remember the number of vice-presidency – supported by the mayor of Barcelona, the opposite was defended. Okay. And with regard to the Government of the Generalitat, the rapporteur, the person who has presented this motion has already been giving enough data – there is more, but I think it has given a few quite revealing – of the different positions between the Vice-President, who is present here, honors us with his presence, and the President of the Government, between Junts and Esquerra, who then change their position. Well, explain it to us; I don't think it's too much. It will also be interesting to discuss the reasons for the rejection of this investment of 1,700_million_euros, which in addition– I think it is an important thing that we have to take into account – would not be paid by taxpayers– I do not know if we have made this clear – but by airport users. That is to say, directly by airlines through charges for the use of airport infrastructure and indirectly by passengers, through the impact of such charges on air tickets. The main impediment to the fight against enlargement has been the environmental impact and, in particular, the impact on the Ricardo lagoon. And, indeed, it is necessary to discuss, it is appropriate to discuss the possibility of applying compensatory environmental measures, creating places with similar characteristics – not equal, similar – in other parts of the delta, given the water level of the area. On the other hand, I don't think it's worth discussing – I suppose we will, but I don't think it's worth it – about the real opposition argument of the nationalist parties, and it was an investment of 1,700_million_euros that came from the hand of the state, which could call into question their permanent discourse of grievances against that. Nor do I think it is worth discussing the magical solution that they propose: the transfer of the airport from Barcelona to the Generalitat de Catalunya. This is good for everything. This is like the balm of Fierarás. Any problem you have, it's solved with the transfer. To its incompetence and usual misgovernment, one must add an important fact: that at present AENA is a company from which a forty_and_nine_per_cent of its shares are listed on the stock exchange, and it is very likely that its shareholders would not find it a good idea to usurp a fundamental part of their company without compensation. I can say that, as a result of that debate, we will be able to see once again how separatism and the left are the main enemies of Catalonia's economic progress. Its policies drive investors away and boost projects that would reverse the well-being of Catalans. Separatism and the left are responsible for the decline of Catalonia. We therefore believe that it is appropriate to debate, so, as has already been said, we will vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.124.0	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.125.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Well, our vote will be against the motion for the Mixt Group. We share the need to talk about what's going on at Prat Airport, because we understand that there are some things that have been resolved in an ambiguous way and that have not been completely clarified, because..., it is to say, popular mobilization, it is true that it has stopped the project that had been presented and that affected Ricardo, but we, in view of the future, want it to be that there is no doubt that any expansion is ruled out, including alternative expansions, successors, or expansions that affect the airports of Reus and Girona. Then, you, in your own motion, ask that the Committee on Territories and the Committee on Climate Action be jointly asked to speak. But, you see, we... well, I don't know if you are, but at the climate change committee, all this has been discussed. We have the chairman of the Climate Action Commission here, with whom, in the framework of this committee, the debate opened. The one that happens, that you were not, in that committee, but this debate took place in the march of that committee. And the commission..., in the March of the Commission of Territori is going to do the week you see. Vice-President Puignero has to compare and, besides, there are requests for UGT, Commissions, Promotion and Pimec to be resolved and to which there will also be new requests for social entities to compare in defence of the environment. We're on board, aren't we? , in which there must be a discussion, which must be profound and detailed. And basically, this talking about it in depth has to be to end with ambiguity, ambiguity that... now I'm going to talk about the group of common people, because there are things that we haven't just seen, there are literalities that cost us seeing when they arrive, right? I'm referring to the fact that you recently discussed a motion where you introduced that you were against the expansion of the airport in relation to the project, and you added the initial project. What do you mean it's against the expansion of the initial project? That in projects that were different, then, would they be in favor? Well, to solve all these questions, we do understand that we need to talk about it. We do put our position clearly and diaphanously on the table, which is that we are betting for a decrease in airport activity to reduce emissions, and that means not expanding air activity. Because the only way we have that there is no more emissions is that the aviation is reduced, and I mean not to expand the Prat airport, not Reus and Girona, not to make an airport city, not to make a satellite terminal, not to make an extension of the runway in one direction or another, that there are changes in the runway operations... We are against all this. And obviously we're also against affecting the delta's natural space, including not Ricarda but all the agricultural space, and not just those that have the condition, right? , specially protected for the Natura 2000 Xarxa. So what we're putting in place for the group that proposed this motion is that I'm taking part in the Territorial Commission that's going to do the week you see, which is going to discuss this issue extensively and extraordinarily. And we also ask the vice president that if he has to make more meetings with the minister, then what he takes advantage of is to ask him for a transfer of skills immediately. Because only we can manage the airport – not just the Prat airport, but the rest of the airports that are under the hands of the Spanish Government –..., is the way we can implement all the forecasts, all the requirements of the climate change law, approved for the Parliament of Catalonia in 2017 and which has a whole series of objectives that are mandatory compliments, and it is clear that in the hands of the current infrastructure manager it is impossible to carry out all the forecasts of the climate change law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.126.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.127.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... well, this is one of those motions that hurts me, that makes me very sorry. I'm hurting the subject, I'm hurting the problem itself. I believe that in Catalonia we are already many who suffer the situation because of the breakdown of coexistence; I want to believe that almost all of us, except one of the blind who is there in that flight forward, many of whom I believe are in here. I think it was almost all of us that hurt Catalonia. And then, each one hurts a little bit more, so, within the areas we've worked on, in which we know the most. I think yesterday it hurt the university teachers a lot, it hurt Susana, Rafael, Isabel. I'm sure they were very sorry to see the situation where universities in Catalonia are heading. Other days it is up to journalists, when they see where Catalan public television or Catalan public media is going. And it hurts me when I see these debates on infrastructure, on transport and on the environment. The infrastructure in Catalonia hurts me and the environment in Catalonia hurts me; it hurts me where the two are going. Because in Catalonia we have been years, many years – in fact, this comes from much later – but it has worsened and it has been noted above all in the last ten, fifteen years. This is not new – it is not new – it is not a technical issue and it is not an environmental issue; it is simply a question of seeking confrontation and the total paralysis of a non-target government, which is what we have here in Catalonia for years. So, come on, I was surprised, when I saw that yesterday I was replying to my colleague Nacho that if someone had any doubts that if Catalonia were an independent state we would not have an intercontinental airport. I think what..., well, I'm laughing, because I think what would surprise you, what would surprise us all, is that if the Government of the Generalitat, which is not able to manage an autonomous community, would manage many more things, the course it's going on right now would lead us to an absolutely chaotic situation, of retreat and of loss of opportunity, which is what many of us fight for not getting to it. I was coming..., the weekend I was in Madrid and I saw..., and right on the subway they gave me a map - I was surprised that they still give papers..., maps on paper - and I was entertained for a while looking at the lines and then I made some checks. In Madrid, in the last twenty years, the metro has expanded more than one hundred_five hundred_kilometres; here in Catalonia [[some applause]] – in Catalonia – only fifty. I'm sure you'll tell me it's because of the tax deficit... [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, the inverted budget is practically the same, gentlemen. [[Widow's remorse.]] You have spent 6,000_million on expanding the 9_de_metro line, a line that should have been completed by 2,000_million [[some applause]] It's 6,000 and they haven't made half – or half. Those fifty kilometers are counting the metro, the tram and the railway of the Generalitat. I have been perfectly generous; it is not a question of money, it is a question of loss of course and lack of sight and will. Of course, they have other things in their heads. And in the environment three-quarters of the same; it seems that this debate is a debate on the environment. Renewable energy in Catalonia..., we have been practically ten years without building a single wind farm in Catalonia. In Spain, 28.3_per_cent of energy comes from wind or solar; here in Catalonia, just seven_per_cent. I think if we want to talk about the environment, we have a lot to talk about. I also wanted to tell you that this debate is not old. Read a news report here: « The lack of decision on the Prat allows the PP to empower Barajas. This might seem like it's from today and they'd say, "Fuck, but it talks about the PP, instead of the Socialist Party." This debate is from 1998, and the debate was exactly the same. They said: "It is essential to have environmental studies that will make it possible to decide the best alternative. This is exactly the same as they are saying now for paralysing an infrastructure for the lack of direction of this Government of the Generalitat. We are clear, we are very clear: we are betting on the airport, we are betting on the environment, we are betting on progress and we are betting on the future, which we believe are perfectly compatible if we focus on what citizens need. So, if they ever want to look forward without trampling on anyone, instead of looking back, they'll find us here. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.128.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.129.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Vice-President, Members, Members, well, first of all, I welcome the interest of the People's Party in talking about Catalan airports, and I invite you to take part, from now on, in the meetings of the Commission for Digital Policies and Territories, because if the memory does not fail, until today they have not yet participated. I'm telling you with all due respect to your group, huh? The PP may soon return to the Government of Spain, and the current Government of Madrid, the most progressive of the history, seems to be holding all the great current reptes related to Catalonia, is to say, nor reform of the LOFCA, the law of autonomous financing, expired in 2014, neither behind bars, now neither expansion of Prat, nor reversal of the centuries-old discrimination in the public investment of the State in Catalonia, nor real political dialogue on the causes of the conflict... Therefore, I ask the PSC and the commons: will it be possible to expect a PP government to focus on all these issues? We, therefore, in relation to the People's Group's petition, understand that, given that the Vice-President voluntarily asked to compare figures coming to the committee, this debate that they propose has not been heard and, therefore, we will vote against it. Now we have three minutes to talk about airports, and here there is a lot of magic: airport traffic only generates 1.5_per_cent of CO2 emissions, which are to be reduced, but in change, the traffic is forty_per_cent, the habitat is thirty to forty_per_cent. And, in change, for airports enter more than 1.5_percent of the added value of an economy: enter talent, enter multinational investments, enter major global events... Therefore, we have Barcelona, which has been the airport of Europe that has grown the most in the last two years, from 27 to 53 million, which has increased the most in percentage, as well as other airports has not doubled in transit; therefore it is a great opportunity to lose this opportunity to expand this airport and we cannot be late, in this sense. In addition, Barcelona is not the capital of the state nor is it its own flag company that food you want to connect; therefore, it still has more merit this position, the sisena in the ranquing, the year 2019. But, well, without having to touch Ricardo, which is the proposal that the vice president and the government of Catalonia as a bloc have been generating and have been defending, without touching Ricardo's lacuna, the Prat airport could win intercontinental flights, which are the most valuable add to the economy of a territory. For example, the T1 terminal could free it from low-cost companies; in any normal country all low-cost companies are at airports or secondary terminals. We could release up to thirty T1 fingers that are now used to fly three-cents and four-cents for the great Asian and American companies that have been asking to come to Prat for years. It has not felt, for example, that the year 2019 the flight from Barcelona to Oakland, which is the airport of Silicon Valley, is being punished at the tip of terminal 2, a terminal without VIP room, with permanent works, left from the hand of God ; give a bad image to the people who see the technological capital of the world in Barcelona, to the World Mobile Congress, if they arrive at that tip of terminal T2 and not to the B24 of the T1. Certainly, Norwegian, in the midst of the pandemic, announced that he was leaving Barcelona and no one from the most progressive government of history lost a minute of sound. On the other hand, they concentrated their efforts on making a rescue of 54_million to the Plus Ultra airline, which I don't know what added value it brings, and a rescue that has also been very questioned until the courts. Professor Germà Bel also published an article in the Ara Diari: "Without touching Ricardo's gap, the north runway of the airport can be served, longer than the sea runway, to make some floods. Therefore, we could move from the current limit of seventy-eight flights per hour to ninety-four flights per hour, with a sound per under sixty-five decibels. AENA, in Madrid, has allocated 170_million euros in the last two years to put double glass to wing 12,200 habitats. Why don't you do that to Gava? The interest of urbanisations that were made there when the airport was already in front of Catalan interests? These are things that can be done without widening the track and we can win intercontinental flights now, without spending a_euro at the Prat airport. Well, and finally, AENA is still a unique system in Europe of centralised airport management, of subsidies created between a few airports that earn benefits that are shared with a large number of airports that lose benefits. This is against European law, because it breaks the level playing field, the competition between European airports. The same goes for Ports of the State, which also has a system of hollow subsidies, against which the Regulation of the European Parliament approved in 2016. I'm done. Spain has been leading the European Commission's racquing of incompliments for many years, up to the point that lawyer Araceli Mangas de Salamanca wrote, in 2015, to the Diari El Mundo: "I don't think Spain is a European rule of law. Then we've got even more stuff going on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.130.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Eugeni Villalbí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.131.0	President, Vice-President, Members of Parliament, late afternoon. I'm here at the Faristol talking about quite a recurring theme, which is this ghost reversal of AENA, and I'm adding to the petitions of the Junts, CUP and the commons, inviting the group to propose that the best way to talk about the issues is to participate in the commissions, and to announce a question that surely they don't know: that the Climate Action Commission has already begun this debate, that the vice president, the committee next week, will come to compare and that, therefore, we will vote against, this young man, because the debates are already taking place and these debates are already taking place. A debate that we also want to take further – and add ourselves to the petitions of the CUP and the commons – to speak not only of the reversal itself, but of the necessary model change. Because, in fact, AENA has been constantly talking about the need for investment to build and make Barcelona airport a hub, but it has often not talked about other parts of this project. If I am allowed the joke, the architect Maria Sisteras, in an article published to the Ara, since we also talked about articles, tried to put a little light in the dark of this project of AENA, and spoke on the other hand of the project that does not talk about it, does not talk about the PSC, does not talk about it AENA, does not talk about the PP, in this proposal debate, and it is about the development of a total of 328 hectares of soil near Terminal 2. Because we understand each other, we are talking about a surface equivalent to half the district of Eixample, with a building potential of 1.8_million_of_metres_squares, a new economic district with a size equivalent to the walls of Poblenou or the Prat Vermell Marina, a real ball of construction of hotels, shops and services. So, AENA's real goal was to turn Barcelona into a hub? The real purpose of AENA was to build and develop a ball of colossal dimensions to benefit this 49_per_cent of private shareholders you have? The airport, in fact, could already be a hub. This debate – I don't know what Member I was pointing out, it seems to me that I was the Member of Ciutadans – in an article from the 1990s..., many years ago the independence parties – and some at some other time they weren't, but they also defended the interests of Catalonia –..., the Catalanists defended that Barcelona and the Barcelona airport could become a hub. And, in fact, we have the infrastructure because it is – Congressman Tremosa more or less already pointed it out. The problem is that we're building arguments based on lies. There is no need for the investment to be made by AENA and just as by AENA because the Prat airport is a hub. And I imagine, and I'm doing the exercise, I imagine what would have happened to us, and I'm sure by now we'd have a clue, we wouldn't have Ricardo, we'd have a ball and it wouldn't be a hub. What it takes is a real willingness to approach and make a model change, like some games we plant, because in what we are in a climate-emergency context, it's a two, it's a five, it's a twenty_per_cent of emissions. What we need to think about is: any project needs to be addressed from the climate-emergency context, and this project doesn't. This project was intended to affect protected areas. And do some of you think that AENA has offered the 328 hectares of commercial land to compensate for the damage to Ricardo or the agricultural park? The benefits were left for them, and the costs put them on the scale of the whole city, on the scale of protected spaces. What it takes is to make a model change. And what we plant is a Catalan airport model that has a larger view than a few hundred metres of a Barcelona airport runway, that looks at all existing infrastructures without the need to build new infrastructures, that we take advantage of the full potential of the airport of Reus, Alguaire, Girona and Barcelona, that we connect them with high speed, yes, that we also raise growth limits: we cannot grow indefinitely. And I'm running out of time – bad experience to be the first time. What I'm saying is we need to plant the model change and, ladies and gentlemen of the PSC, they're not planting it. It's not that we don't have a model, it's that we do, but it's not the same as his. You're greenwashing, you're a very nice green headliner, but when we go to the scene of your problems, you're the first climate negationists, because there's no plan to address climate emergence as they have to. You're where you've always been, in the 20th century and hugged at IBEX 35. And we want to make a model change and we want to take a step forward. What's been done here is a chant. [[some applause]] : the project is what we want, as we want, with the social impact that we want, with the environmental impact that we want or make a Scattergories: we take the reversal and there is no reversal here. So we didn't bend in front of your chanting. In short, and in the end, there has never been a real will to reverse it. What's happened is a smoke screen, a ghost reversal to cover up this speculative project that was behind it. And when you have seen that the government is not double, that it has put forward a technical council with concrete proposals and with the climate emergency installed in the center, you who have made it is barroer partyism and take the reversal of Barcelona, want to make the Generality guilty of the non-inversion, when here the only culprits of the non-inversion are you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.132.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the word now the deputy Eva Parera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.133.0	Thank you, President. Look, I don't get a lot of work out of your sixty-five, because you can say a lot about me, but I don't work, no; and I don't think I will. And who knows me well, you know. I don't want to discuss the model. They haven't understood or they don't want to hear anything. We don't want to discuss the model, we want explanations of what happened between the yes and the no. The debate has already had it, it has had it in infinity of occasions and in infinity of commissions. That the government votes that they don't want to give explanations is that they don't even surprise me, because, if not, you've given them your own word. But, Lords of the Socialist Party, or so on, are you opposed; that you have not understood yet? It's your opposition. It is seen that the word "Government" is put on the tab and oblivion that you are opposed. They can't - they can't - come here to say we want an airport; we want to make a reason for this, we want the expansion of the airport, and now refuse to let the government explain what happened. She's very hypocritical, that's all. Please. You may also have to explain why the Council of Ministers does not approve of this reversal in the Dora, because they do not need the government for nothing, they do not need them for nothing. And they didn't approve of it, and they came here to make us a young man, saying, "We need enlargement. We're still debating. So, we continue to debate, we continue to debate with fresh opportunities! Really, it's not that hard. To govern is to manage, and to manage is to give explanations of those decisions that are taken. That's transparency. And today's vote is 'no transparency'. So it's hard for us to know. You can debate, continue debate. Clearly the model has to be discussed, if I don't say no – I don't say no. But what we need to know is what happened. How can we get out of an announcement between two governments of 'we have an enlargement agreed to say no more. How is that possible? Please, you don't feel it. I very much regret this lack of transparency exercise that took place today in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.134.0	All right. So we proceed to vote on this motion following the Government's inquiry into airport infrastructure. The vote begins. The motion was rejected with 20 votes in favour, 103 votes against, 8 abstentions and one person who did not vote. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into initiatives to regulate the audiovisual sector]] [[302-00028/13]] Let's move on to the next man. It is the twenty-three point of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the initiations to regulate the audiovisual sector. It is presented for the Republican Esquerra Group and, to expose it, has the word Mrs Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.135.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Members, Members, last July, from the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, we put an inquiry to Councillor Vilagrà, where we had a topic of debate and also concern that the last few weeks have gone flying. It is about audiovisual regulation, in accordance with European directives, so as to adapt both state law and Catalan law to the reality of a market, that of audiovisual, that later years has been transformed through digitalisation and that it has become globalised. Surely, the sum of this context of digitization and globalization, with the fact that in the last decade in Catalonia there has been a lack of determination to renew public policies in this area, has contributed to the stagnation or even the backwardness of the social use of Catalan language. The data available, especially for young people, are quite significant; I would say alarming. And this has revived the idea that, if there is no presence in the audiovisual offer, the Catalan language is progressively condemned to marginality. The emergence of new global actors, such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, Netflix or YouTube, has determined new consumption habits, and all European states – all – have opted for a regulation that protects the uniqueness of their languages in this globalization context. All states have set quotas and guaranteed a minimum percentage of investment in local audiovisual production and also in doubling, which is also important in order to be able to have a sufficiently large and attractive offer, especially if we think of the children's and young people's public, which is the most encouraging and in which we should devote more effort. But Catalonia and Catalonia do not, unfortunately, have the tools and skills of any of these states and, therefore, the protection of language is subject to state legislation. And what have we found? So we found that what we could know from the transposition of Spanish legislation proposed late through the preliminary draft of the general audiovisual communication law was very disappointing. Conservative, mercantilist, centralist, serving large groups and absolutely – absolutely – insensitive to the protection of linguistic and cultural diversity. That's why we're planting this young man, because we need to look for the most political complicitys in all of the Catalan language world, as well as Basques and Gallics, and I'd say with all the real democrats. We need to make a common front so that Spanish law, which has its powers, protects this linguistic and cultural diversity. And that is what this young man is pursuing, which in fact is already in line with the motion for a resolution which, in terms of language, was approved at the general policy debate, which was, of course, about a eighty-five per cent of the support of this Parliament, and we are very pleased that the catalá is, therefore, an element of consensus and cohesion in our country and is not being used as a trigger weapon, as some had tried to do in the past years. And, in parallel, we also need to redefine the master lines of a new Catalan audiovisual law, working with the sector, attentive to the ongoing transformations and radically compromise with the defense of pluralism, diversity and national cultural and linguistic heritage. In this sense, we applaud the fact that the government has already submitted a preliminary memo for this law. We have a lot of work to do and we need everyone and everyone. But among the impulse policies of the audiovisual sector, beyond these normalized brands, we cannot overlook other priorities that we have as the country. The first, the impulse of the audiovisual hub with the objective of becoming the engine of production at our home. We have a lot of talent and we don't want professionals to leave to work. And the second, but not less important, is that we certainly ask all the deputies and deputies of this chamber, is that we cannot let a minute pass without renewing the governing councils of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans, and also of the CAC. Only with these renewed roles can we adapt the country's public media to the reality and needs of the 21st century. I'll finish it off. In a digitalized and globalized audiovisual landscape, it is more essential than ever – more essential than ever – to defend, promote and protect audiovisual production in our language. We have the future of català, and from the Republican Left Group we hope and desire that language will follow one of the great consensus of this country, because català, MPs and MPs, is the heritage of all, it is country heritage. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, has the word to present the papers, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.137.0	Well, so-so. Look, the truth is, we'd really like to vote on this, huh? That's why we've presented them with some ideas that, as we couldn't be less – we didn't expect anything else – you've gone through the brothel, with which you'll force us to vote against it all. With great feeling and pain, I proceed to explain why. They already know that I, from this faristol, can speak Catalan or castle, a little every second of the day, follow the theme and follow what I like. Thanks to Bilingual Soc God, I have two very close languages, which are both official in this Parliament, and which live naturally within our culture, spoken, written, audiovisual and digital, and which more and better live not to be for the sad policies of the Generality and of everything else that hangs in it. How can it be that the main diaries of Catalonia, starting with the mythical La Vanguardia, have a perfectly bilingual edition in Catalan and Spanish, that Spanish Television has a Catalan circuit, and even programs in Catalan that have been issued throughout Spain, and that to Catalonia Radio, TV3, etc., I take them a wound attack if someone proposes to normalize a proportional quota of Spanish language? In this precise moment I pass to the Spanish, not to disagree, but because I am in my right, because it gives me the desire, and because I want it to be understood very clearly and to be possible in all Spain, what I am going to say right now. We know – I know – that there is a new offensive to erase the Spanish language from the Catalan public television map. We know – I know – that at least a very important TV3 program, a program that is broadcast on Saturday nights, famous for asking frequent questions about the hottest issues of independence, but also for having a certain tradition of admitting Tertulians who do not speak Catalan, well, because this program receives or claims to be receiving pressure to stop calling these analysts because they do not speak Catalan. Some of these Tertullians have already received calls giving them lengths, asking them to take distance and take it calmly, and they will call them back later, when it escapes. When he escapes, what? The fact that we are not even talking about a TV3 production program, but about an external production program, I don't know if it's to laugh or cry; in any case, it is to put the hair at the top. Does that sound like an anecdote? Well, it's not. And I wish it were as easy to fix as denouncing it here in Parliament; that some of them may fall in shame and rectify from the next Saturday – I wish! But rather it has to be the typical maneuver of throwing the stone and hiding the hand. The same ones who fight and argue for the new Spanish law of audiovisual communication to assume from the government of the nation the defense of quotas of Catalan linguistics and industrial, on platforms like Netflix, are the ones who here trigger the hunt of witches against whom tries to ask quotas in Spanish on TV3, the same ones who throw a jihad against the actors of theatre who support bilingualism, or who even call botifler anyone who recommends Mediterranean, a film that is spoken of to represent Spain in the Oscars, but for some it does not deserve to be seen because it is shot in Spanish. Can You Be More Obtuse? Can You Be More Carcamal? I have no doubt that you trust that Spain – not the Spanish state, gentlemen, but Spain, without complexes and with capitals –, that Spain from which so many pests say, day yes, day also, ends up taking the chestnuts out of the fire so that, despite its disastrous linguistic, cultural and audiovisual politics, although you have done and continue to do what is in your hand so that Catalan loses the train of modernity and the future, well, because I have no doubt that Spain, once again, can help us in this, can rescue us. And I'll be the first to clap my ears if you get Catalan to survive on Netflix. But I would like you not to expect to achieve that through parliamentary bitchry, marketing language for budgets, budgets per language..., but to truly understand the importance and nobility of not asking for Catalan in Madrid what you tenaciously deny the Castilian in Catalonia. One cannot be a supporter of bilingualism in Madrid, and instead in Catalonia try to impose, for the good or for the bad, an aggressive monolingualism and cateto, a monolingualism of franchisors to walk by house. I return in Catalan to make a prec to the lords of the PSC and the commons, and that something must have to say, it is assumed, both to the negotiations of the Spanish audiovisual law in Madrid, as of the Catalan one here, as of the eternally pending renewal of the governing organs of the Catalan corporation and of the ACC, before finishing the year, if we are to pay attention to the intentions of the Government or from the Government. Now we're all running, 'cause he's let it go. See, let's see if we can learn all the information from past experiences and get the next renewal of the body to be truly plural, transparent, without party control, without excluding political minorities and in agreement with the sector. That we're asking for this in the antipodes of this government? Antipods follow, and we follow. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.138.0	Next, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.139.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, 'Counsellors. The public media are a pillar of democracies, and they are because it depends on them that all citizens have the information to enable them to make the best decisions. A right as important as the right to information depends on the public media because it guarantees pluralism and impartiality and balanced and bias-free information. From the Socialists and Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group we have been reiterating that TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio are not carrying out this mission that they are mandated by law. For years, the CEO's barometer has found that Catalans and Catalans voting for non-independence groups have stopped watching TV3 and listening to Catalunya Ràdio. This is because they are not reflected in a speech that assumes that all the citizens of Catalonia think the same, but also because it does not reflect social and cultural diversity and does not make visible the urgent problems facing a large part of society, for example those related to poverty and social emergency, the result of years of cuts. There are things that our public television never explains to us and on too many occasions it encourages division, which is the opposite of what is entrusted to it by law. We believe that the first step towards this recovery of public service broadcasting is the urgent renewal of the governing body of the Catalan Mitjans Audiovisual Corporation, half of whose members expired in 2015 and the other half in 2018. The director of TV3 was reprobated by this Parliament in 2017; we are in 2021 and remains in office because neither the corporation nor the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia has been renewed, as required by law. It is something that proposes this motion. We believe that it is urgent to do so and that is why it was one of the proposals that led to last week's general policy debate. We believe, however, that there is not only a problem of social trust, there is also a problem of modeling, of how an analog corporation is transformed into a digital corporation. In the document that the Socialist party presented last April, we proposed something that also proposes this motion, and it is the need to create an audiovisual hub in Catalonia that brings together the synergy of the public and private sectors, and in which knowledge and industry address the urgent restructuring of the sector to do the most competitive, also taking advantage of the opportunity offered by the Next Generation funds. In relation to the language, we believe, as stated yesterday by the Minister of Culture Miquel Iceta in an interview, that Spanish languages other than Spanish must have special protection also in the law that will be processed in Madrid. We believe that the promotion of the català also passes to invest in contents. In our appearances for corporate renewal, we were able to listen to the president of the Academy of Catalan Cinema, who reminded us that the investment in cinema has not yet returned to 2010, when Catalonia ruled the government, and that it was the year that a film in Catalan language, Pa negre, was nominated for the Oscars. In 2010, there were five Catalan films in the official section of Sant Sebastià because there was a government in Catalonia that supported Catalan cinema. It is key that the laws take care of the català, but it is also key to promote effective policies that support the production of contents; contents that, like Black Pa, generate illusion and cohesive society around the language. This should also be the mission of our public television: to create community around the language. We will vote in favour of this motion because we believe that in the general lines its proposals are in the same line as those of the Socialist Group and Unites per Avançar. We also believe that a new audiovisual communication law should be promoted in Catalonia, in line with the European directive and the draft of the Congress of Deputies. But in this sense we would like to know what the Government intends to do, because this motion by Esquerra Republicana tells us to push and deploy a new law, but Junts has submitted a draft amendment to the 2005 one a few days ago. It would be important for them to clarify whether they will do one thing or the other. We do not share the view that the current audiovisual bill transposing the European directives has been drafted with the aim of harming Catalan. We believe that, like all projects, it needs to be revised and improved and in what is needed and what is now being done. The transposition of European legislation into our legislation is urgent because, in the face of the arrival of new formats for the exchange of content, we have no tools to regulate access to those who promote violence, hate speech. This morning a new report came out saying that the average of the first access to pornography of our children is at the age of eight. It would be important not to lose sight of the fact that we are talking about regulating matters as important as this, but it would also be important for the language to be an element of cohesion, because using political means we are not doing Catalonia or Catalan any favours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.140.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.141.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Today the Republican group brings us a motion that aims to boost a Catalan audiovisual hub and water the public media with even more public money. Ladies and gentlemen, you are neither concerned nor concerned by the audiovisual sector. You are neither concerned nor concerned with offering quality content. They have never been worried about the free press, either. In fact, they pursue it by placing their hit men in all the governing bodies that they can to prevent the media from serving what they should serve: a public service, free, rigorous, truthful, transmission of information. But you're not worried about this, are you? What worries them is to force all the producers, all the channels, all the stations, all the digital platforms to broadcast the content in Catalan. That's what they're worried about, isn't it? And not precisely because you want to defend one of the two official languages we have in Catalonia. No, but because what they want is to waste even more public money to finance there their client network of grateful stomachs, of course. You want to take over the Catalan language to covertly fund institutional advertising to media groups to respond to your government's dictate. That's what worries you. And I'm sorry, I'm deeply sorry. But it must be regretted more by its voters. The more regrets the Catalans, who see how every day they have to pay more and more for the bill of light, worrying themselves not knowing if this winter will be able to turn on the heating. The more regrets families, who see it as their neighborhood, which was once a safe place, now, and because of their multicultural goodist policies, it has become a dustbin totally degraded by gangs of illegal immigrants machete in hand. And we have seen it all these last days in the streets of Catalonia; we have seen it in Barcelona, we saw it in the park of the Dehesa of Gerona, in a macro fight. We see it every day. But not only do you not care about the insecurity that the neighbors suffer, but you call them racists. Anyway, well, we see that, that you live completely alienated, live from your backs to reality, and this motion, of course, is proof of that. They are only concerned to maintain and expand their propaganda apparatus so that the media, slaves of their power, may whiten them at all times of the day. They do not want the media to say that separatism is synonymous with unemployment, violence, ruin, misery, that Catalans live worse today than ever before. But the complicity of the media with this government comes more and more to the attention of all Catalans, to whom you have become forced shareholders of this barrage of hatred and sectarianism, which is now TV3. Anyway... At the first point of this motion we are going to vote on they say: « To proceed to the renewal of the governing bodies of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans and of the Audiovisual Council of Catalonia. Gentlemen, but if it seems to you so far that this has mattered little to you. Den reckons, the governing council of the corporation has expired 2,300_days; that's almost six years, gentlemen – six years. The last ACC council was approved in 2010; it expired in 2016. That's been over five years. And seeing that up to now this has mattered little to you, as well as violating Catalan audiovisual law, I wonder: "What have you come to today? Why have you come here today? To untie this process and renew the corporation? No, not at all; you've come, huh? , to do the Egyptian. You have come to cram – to cram – that is what you have come to today. And be honest, say it, take away your faces, tell it to the Catalans: you have come to see how many friends of yours can put on the boards of directors and to collect a hundred thousand eurazos a year. That's what you've come to, that's why you're in a hurry now. And in this pie, of course, you are not alone, the separatists, you are your most loyal subjects of the Socialist Party. Anyway... In short, we are going to vote against this motion, not because we have mania, but because in this chamber some of us still believe in the press and the free media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.142.0	Mr Tarradas, once again I am obliged to remind you that the Code of Conduct of the Parliament of Catalonia is a must for all Members of Parliament, and that Article 7 of the Code of Conduct specifies that Members must conduct themselves with respect to citizenship at all times, in accordance with the principle of equality, without discrimination on grounds of origin. You have made statements that link crime to immigration, and this is a very important disrespect for Catalonia's citizenship, and, moreover, it is an attempt to undermine social cohesion, because it is inciting racism and promoting xenophobia. He's asking you to have it present. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] And then in the name of... yeah, why ask me the word Mr. Tarradas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.143.0	I'm asking for the floor because I think you've been...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.144.0	No, why ask me the word? I didn't give him the word, Mr. Tarradas. I'm asking for what article I'm asking for the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, Article 87 does not correspond to you. I'm giving him an intervention when you've finished your participation in the Faristol, and as the director of the debates in this room I'm making observation. You've had your chance to use the word. It's not an excuse, I'm warning you. [[I'm sorry. I'm fine. I'm fine.]] - I'm warning him. You don't have the word. You can't speak, the cry to order. I didn't give him the word. You've made use of your word and I've made a warning. Go on, please, and let's continue with the session. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Tarradas, you have no use for the word. If he returns to warn the order it will be the third time and I will have to expel him from the room. He's made use of his wordpin. Next, has the words of Mr Xavier Pellicer, Member of the People's Unity Candidature.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.145.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, Madam President. It's hard to follow after this unfortunate spectacle. In any case, they're certainly very busy threatening to lock up institutions, aren't they? , and illegalize matches to be able to write a different speech every day, since every day everyone repeats the same speech. And that's not why you have to be more sure. [[Greetings.]] Allow me also to begin, as we speak of pressure, remembering that, the coming week, Albert Garcia, a photographer, will be brought to justice precisely because he was prevented from doing his job in the post-sentence protests and accused of rushing to authority. And, therefore, to claim the same demands they make from the press, which is that there is enough that the police prevent journalists from doing their job. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. That said, we will vote for this young man...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.146.0	I'm sorry, Mr. Tarradas, I'm not going to tolerate this. I don't think I'll tolerate it. He gets kicked out of the chamber, because it's the third time the cry goes to order. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word? [[Joan Garriga Doménech intervenes without using the microphone.]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.147.0	[[Joan Garriga Doménech began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...sir tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.148.0	Ah, who said "the delinquent was not Mr. Tarradas?" [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It was you. I'm giving you the opportunity to be removed from the session log, Mr. Garriga. Demonstrates that you do not want to violate the code of conduct of this chamber and, by virtue of our Rules, you cannot make false accusations against a deputy of this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.149.0	No, first of all, it's not the deputy, I told the journalist. The journalist's been detained. I suppose it's for some crime that he's committed. And, of course, I did not tell the honourable Member that he was a criminal. I told the journalist what the deputy is referring to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.150.0	All right. So they ask him to refrain from making these statements and to be removed from the session logbook. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] We'll start over in time. I'm sorry I hadn't put up with his time. Forward, Mr. Pellicer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.151.0	Let's start again, then. I return to express my absolute support to Albert Garcia, detained because the police prevented him from doing his job and with whom we show all the support for the trial that will be held next week. [[Greetings.]] That said, we will vote in favour of this motion and we will vote for it as much for what it does to the issues related to the renewal of the governing bodies of the corporation and the ACC, as it does for the points that make reference to the defence of language and the scope of audiovisual regulation. On these later questions, there are two motions after which we will already refer more extensively and, therefore, I will focus on the question of the renewal of the governing bodies. Last week we approved in Parliament that this renewal could not go any further than the end of the year. Our position is clear in this sense: we believe that renewal is urgent, that it is imminent and that the corporation is at risk, and that the responsibility for this renewal is for all of us here. That said, and if I may, I will read to you the manifesto that the entities of the sector, committees, unions and councils have made public these last days to demand precisely this renewal and, above all, to see if it helps us to pass from what is already hypocrisy to me, which are the words, to the facts. "In the face of the imperative and urgent renewal of the direction of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans, for a process that exceeds the quotas of party and stakes for independent, truthful and quality media, it is a legal and moral empire that the Parliament completes the renewal of the direction of the corporation, as well as the directions of its media and those on which it participates, and faces once and for all the setbacks and threats that entail the rapid transformation of the sector. The fundamental changes in the consumption habits of information and entertainment, the monopolistic and homogenizing impact of global plataforms, the exclusion of fake news and the devaluation of information threaten both public services and minority languages and cultures. It is urgent to have a short, medium and long-term strategy that runs away from political tactics. Public, democratic, plural and catalá communication means are a fundamental tool for building a shared future in our country. The mandate of the current corporate governance council has expired years ago. And the law establishing the new election mechanism approved 2019. Renewal is urgent and needs to be done by a qualified majority of a minimum of two thirds, but that is not enough. There is a great danger that this mechanism that seeks pluralism is distorted and serves to, another time, place people only with party criteria. We therefore place all democratic parliamentary forces in search of broad consensus, abandon party interests and complete the election process of the new direction of the corporation, listening to all sectors involved. This is the only way we can ensure that, in the face of the public media of the Generalitat, there are people who are worthy and accredited for an innovative and independent management project, and that they have as their sole objective to make the corporation an engine for rigorous and plural information that is a reference, for the whole society, to the creation of quality content, the audiovisual industry and the revitalization of the social use of català. We can't allow corporate media to be treated as a pasty to split between the parties, because this depresses them and prevents them from being coordinated and directed by professionals with the will of public service. Only a professional direction of truth at all levels can meet with guarantees the challenges ahead and promote an essential general renewal that advances effectively in innovation, transparency and internal democracy. We're late, mostly because the catalá backs into social use, while corporate media are, every time more, the object of authoritarian and reactionary sectors. We need strong, independent, and truthful media to fight the proliferation of false news, and we can cope with pressure from pre-caught news in press booths and overcome agency dependence. A democratic society cannot leave communication only in the hands of private groups for the servitudes that this implies respect for the great economic powers. Without independent public media and the civil service, there is no democracy. Thank you and let's get to work. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.152.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.153.0	Thank you very much, President. We find ourselves with a young man who understands that the inquiry was done in July in a specific context. The motion came up a while later, in another context too, and we also understand why the content of the motion, which somehow called for all the forces that we are willing to bring forward this defense of the protection of the català between the entire audiovisual production system. And, in this sense, I did want to start a little bit for the end, for this last point, because after the motion there are other points that are related to it, but that go a little bit further, say that we actually believe that the draft of the general audiovisual communication law is a foreword that is necessary and that the European directive is to be transposed, but that there have been more changes in the audiovisual system that make all the legislation and all the legislation and all the tools and resources that the public administrations have to adapt to this new system, right? With all the entry of the plataforms, with the new... with the new ways of using audiovisual products. We have seen how it has affected both the projection of films at the cinema, with the predominance that the series are holding, and how the numbers between the audiovisual production are changing. So, call, but it was obviously a project that when it was made public there was still a long way to go. There's a lot of way to go, there's a lot of way to work, and we've made it to the competent ministry that's running this legislation, because there's a lot of things we're worried about, and we're very worried about. One has already been mentioned, and it is, indeed, the support and protection of the co-official languages of the State. We understand that of the quota to be reserved for production in European languages in the Spanish State, there must be an obligation because part of that quota is also intended for production in the official languages – the Catalan, Basque and Galician – more than can be done in Spanish. But it's not just that. We are also concerned, for example, with the financing system; it is to say, as are the autonomous public media between this financing system. And not just the autonomics, as well as community TV networks, local TV networks, which with this bill restricts the ability to finance itself through advertising inputs. We understand that it is important to be there, because it is more often than not, and in local media, that the advertising of local trades is an important incentive to empower these networks of proximity consumption, proximity trade. There are governance issues. We understand that entities like ACC must have an important role to play and that important role must be recognized among the audiovisual systems of each autonomous community, where it exists. Therefore, all this we believe is a wide margin to resort to; that I believe that in reality there is far more consensus than perhaps I could think of this very Parliament. So I think it's a job we can do from here. And we understand that from the processing of the audiovisual bill that the Government of the Government of Catalonia has now done, that we believe it will be processed, we don't know whether at once or in the band or before or after that which has presented Junts for Catalonia on its behalf, but well, it will be a space in which we can find and work there. But, of course, that also leads us to... talking about the ACC, for example, right? I mean, we defend the CAC, obviously, but what's the CAC? What do you mean, what council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia? What do we have now? With the situation we're in right now? , with the number of members who have been abandoning by disappointment, by helplessness, by incapacity? With the disbelief you've got? , that in the last report, of the three remaining members – three – there was a particular vote of the President against the other two. And, besides, it is an organization that is clearly politicized and partyed at these times. Therefore, it is not only the reform and re-election of the corporate council, but also the election of the Catalan Audiovisual Council – we are late, we are very late. And, besides, he has to dignify himself, and he has to give him the feeling he has. Because those reports he issues, which are very important reports to ensure the quality and function and service of the communication media in Catalonia, so that they really are recognized and have this valid and have the necessary credit. And, of course, we are also in a position to talk about the renewal of the body council. I believe that the company of the UPC has already transferred the demands of the sector. We were able to hear hours and hours of people's comparisons with the sector where we got this urgency, but also the need for us to put forward the professional and quality criteria of communication at the time of electing the new members of the corporate council. But, ladies and gentlemen, it's nothing new, nobody's moving here yet. And here there are those who have more responsibilities and fewer. They can make various cries, but here there are three groups – and they will forgive me – that are necessary for these majorities. Therefore, from the other groups we have made ourselves willing to approve this renewal with as much consent as possible; not that there is a division of falls now between three groups, but that there is a renewal of the council that I represent a large majority of this Parliament. But nobody's moving here. Some, because they're already as good as they are and they're not in a hurry because they're moving; some, because they have to talk to each other and that they're breaking a block and that if they're posing from the band of others there's another time the charges of treason. He's not moving around here. Therefore, we will vote again, as we voted for the general policy debate, but I am very afraid that we will be making a fool of ourselves again as Members and Members if we are not able to renew the board of the corporation before the year is over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.154.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, the Member of Parliament, Ms Lorena Roldán, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.155.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, the truth is that this motion... I'm still surprised at these interrogations that the government itself is making itself, isn't it? Republican Left questioning Republican Left, and then, on top of it, they present a motion. He really misses me a little. Above all, because then we talk here about work and family conciliation, we come an extra afternoon from plenary, we come an hour before the morning, but we have the government questioning each other, which I think, I say, is quite rocky, at least – at the very least. But good. That said, let's talk a little bit about this audiovisual law, which in addition to the last few days has generated several news, especially because it is a problem for the government of Pedro Sánchez. The government of Pedro Sánchez is at a delicate moment right now, wants to approve their budgets and needs the Republican Left to do so. And Esquerra Republicana, as always, takes advantage of this resource and says to him: "Hey, if you want us to sit down..., not that we approve you, that we sit down and approve the budgets, here you are putting quotas in this law. This has already happened with the Celaá law in previous budgets. You deleted, deleted, deleted, at the request of, in addition, Platform per la Llengua – that entity that spies on children in the courtyards of the schools–..., Esquerra Republicana demanded the government to eliminate, to stamp the Castilian of the Celaá law. And the government, obediently Mr. Sánchez did so, to carry out the accounts. And I'm very afraid that exactly the same will happen in this matter. This is a political problem that the Government has right now and you are taking advantage of. President Aragonès has already sent a number of allegations; they have already been contacted, they have sent a letter with the demands, the demands that you want to make in this audiovisual law, in this transposition of the European directive. But, well, they go into the matter here today and they bring us back, I insist, this motion that I have not just understood, but that, well, here we have it and that we are going to vote on it today. I am already advancing my group's vote: it will be unfavorable; except, look, the first point, which is that of the renewal of the governing bodies of the Catalan corporation. In this one we are going to vote in favour, because, well, I think it's a shame. It turns out that Mrs Llorach has the term expired since 2005 – she is having a longer term of office than the term itself. So, well, here we go to see if we can find that necessary consensus. We are also making the effort from the corporation's own commission, and I hope that we can reach an agreement. That is the only point we are going to vote in favour. The rest, what do you want me to tell you? If you can see the plumer, Mrs. Sans. You have told us here that, above all, let us not use Catalan as a bold weapon. Man, they are a little late with this subject, the lords of Republican Left, because, of course, by their deeds they will know them. If you do not want to use Catalan as a bold weapon, here you have to eliminate a number of things that have been practiced in Catalonia in recent years, such as, for example, fine those businesses that decide to label their business in Spanish, which I remember is an official language in Catalonia. For example, let us stop from these campaigns, which, I insist, sponsor Platforma per la Llengua with money, subsidies from the Generalitat, but also from the Diputación de Barcelona, where the Socialist Party governs, and which are dedicated to pointing out and harassing those establishments that serve you in Spanish. I insist, if you don't want to use the language as a bold weapon, then I don't know what that demand came from to eliminate the Spanish as a language to drive in the Celaá law. Then we also have these characters on TV3, don't we? , like Mag Lari, saying he speaks Spanish because it is more scary. Let's not use the language as a bold weapon. We also have the University Adviser, Ms Gemma Geis, making it very clear that she does not intend to comply with the requirements of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia with regard to examinations of selectivity and language. And, moreover, today I read a news that they are going to install mailboxes, or at least they are already installed at the University of Lleida, to denounce the students to the teachers who teach in Spanish. That mailboxes will be installed! I mean, it just seems to me... I really don't know where we're going with this anymore. Finally, we could keep saying little things; more little things, for example, of Platform per la Llengua, than to see if we are done with the subsidies, because I want to remember that in last year's Christmas campaign they drew a..., I don't know how to say it..., a letter, it was a letter, a paper, a brochure, so that the children would write the letter to the kings also in Catalan – also in Catalan – because it is now that to the children..., if not, it is seen that they don't bring you the same gifts. Really, you really come here to do this exercise of cynicism, to say that you come to encourage Catalan, blah, blah... You do not come to encourage Catalan, you come to eradicate Castilian, which is one of its great purposes; but, of course, we are not going to fall into that trap. You use all your weapons with Mr. Pedro Sánchez, who will see if he kneels again before the Republican Left – everything points to yes, we will see what happens – but at least save us coming here to discuss these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.156.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Pep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.157.0	Thank you, President. Advisers... Before I would like to thank Congresswoman Raquel Sans for the presentation of this motion on the audiovisual sector, because it is very important to preserve, strengthen and promote the Catalan and Catalan audiovisual system. And if we don't do the groups that we really think we are, it won't do any more, because the context is what it is and it's good enough for many. The reality of the context is that the Catalan audiovisual offer in Catalonia is in immense inferiority. Data: the noranta_per_cent of the cinema offer is in castle, the eighty_per_cent of the television as well, and the eighty-nine_per_cent of the internet consumption, and the seventy-four_per_cent of the video games, and the fifty-seven_per_cent of the radio, and the català not up or up per cent of the digital platforms. And yet, today too – and not just a group, but more than a group – public media is set up and it is said shamelessly that the language pursued is the castle. That is why I thank you again for this motion and for the progress that our group will be voting in favour of at all points. Together for Catalonia we are in favour of the urgent renewal of the governing bodies of the corporation and the CAC; in favour of encouraging a Catalan audiovisual hub and in Catalonia; in favour of escaping all possible versions of the Catalan versions of all audiovisual products – here we are one month ahead: we have resources, advisors; those who have not been able to do so until now –; in favour also, and above all, of pushing and deploying Catalonia's audiovisual communication law and of doing so with the highest standards, such as the motion, and much in favour of making a common front before the Spanish Government because it is changing as the very unfortunate pre-project of the audiovisual law; in favour, of making a common front of the country in order to protect the Catalan industry. And so it should be heard to the government of Pedro Sánchez, that it is not simple material to switch support in other questions. And once we express our support under the terms of the motion, I will make some important nuances to point 2.d, that of the Catalan audiovisual law, which has been questioned here too. I said that I like the literality of writing the point because it speaks of "promoting and deploying the Catalan law and doing it" with maximum celerity. Because this is precisely the way our group presented the proposal for the audiovisual law as an emergency. For many reasons: because it is a job that had already been coordinated with the government in the last legislature; because if the Spanish government has not yet done the job and went more than a year late, it does not feel that if we already have the job done in Catalonia, we have it in a jail; because it is urgent, since at these times we are already a year late in the time set to transpose the European directive; because if we do not protect the català, the Catalan industry and the competitions of the CAC, we see that Pedro Sánchez does not have the will to do it; because if we want to be an independent state, we do not still have to exercise all the competitions we have, and to legislate in the audiovisual sector in the present – but we do not all have. And it would be ridiculous if we were to legislate five years before the State in audiovisual matter – our law is 2005 and the Spanish law is 2010 –, now our law I've been waiting in a row not to disturb the processing of the Spanish law. The best way to make us respect the language, the industry, the corporation and the ACC, in respect of the Catalan spectators, is to approve the law that we already have. And all this I'm not saying because yes, I'm saying because the process of bringing the law's preliminary report to the execution board indicates that it starts processing from scratch. We can't start now, when a year ago the deadline for transposition has expired. Counsel, Member, the sector has already participated in the drafting of the law during the public hearing phase and all the procedures have been done neatly and correctly; the work is done. What the government has to do is immediately bring the law to Parliament. And I repeat what our chairman of the parliamentary group said: if the government carries the law in the form of a decree, because urgency is fully justified, we will withdraw our proposal. With everything that this young man and the nuances I've expressed, I think we'll do a good service to the country, which is what it's about. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.158.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Raquel Sans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.159.0	Well, before I pronounce myself on the issues... Mrs. Roldán, if you're going to separate from powers; it's to say, I know, we're the legislature and what we're doing is questioning the government, and you're going to separate from powers, despite being groups that we support the government. [[Greetings.]] Everyone also knows that the Kings speak Catalan; so, obviously, right? The cards have to be made in Catalan. But outside jokes [[applause]] – out of jokes–, respect Ciutadans's ideas, I think the reasons for which we do not accept them are obvious enough. Mirin, MP Riera said: of all the audiovisual offer we have today in Catalonia, both for what it does to conventional television and for what it does to the nine plataforms, which are the ones that attract every time the public children and youth, the presence of the català is tiny. I'd say it's ridiculous. To give some examples, huh? , with data from ACC reports. In the Netflix catalog only 0.5_per_cent of the catalog is in Catalan. Disney, with the family mother of three creatures I know very well, only the 0.8_per_cent of the offer is in Catalan. At Amazon Prime the presence of the Catalan language is 1,3_per_cent. I honestly ask them: is it true that one of the few, not to say the only channel that exists in Catalan language in Catalonia, audiovisual, has to introduce quotas in castle? Do they really think the castle needs more reinforcement? Isn't it enough that more than the noranta_per_cent of the audiovisual offer to our country is in Spanish language? It's an honest question. And on the day that the bilingualism speech that defends was accompanied by an action alone – by an action alone – to defend the presence of the Catalan language in those spaces where it is minority or insignificant – one percent to the plataforms or in the world of justice – then they will be minimally credible. Meanwhile, what you defend is monolingualism; the monolingualism we have always suffered in this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.160.0	All right. So we shall proceed to the vote on this motion following the question to the Government on the initiatives to regulate the audiovisual sector. The vote begins. Oh, excuse me... yes, why ask me the word, Mrs. Roldán?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.161.0	President, I also said this in the speech, asking for a separate vote on the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.162.0	Okay. Any other groups want to vote separately from any point? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So we're voting point number one. The vote begins. This point was approved with 115 votes in favour and 17 votes against. We're voting for the rest of the young man now. The vote begins. The motion was passed with 112 votes in favour and 20 votes against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the need to develop a national language plan]] [[302-00029/13]] Let's move on to the twenty-four point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government about the need to develop a national language plan. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and to expose it has the word Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.163.0	I was wondering, a lady who just left, what we do in defense of bilingualism. Well, for example, introduce motions like this. I'm going to read it. If you give me time, I hope I can read it whole. « Catalonia is experiencing a linguistic crisis typical of the times of Francoism, when the political and cultural closure of the regime intended to deny the multilingual reality in our society, expelling Catalan from public, official and academic life, denying its transcendent contribution to the whole of Spanish culture and pretending to make the Spanish language an instrument of imposition and division. Nothing more than the true spirit of this language and of all languages spoken in our country. The Constitution recognizes and enshrines the plurality of official languages in our country, but the interpretations that have been made of the text of the Magna Charter are disappointing in guaranteeing full linguistic freedom. The government of the nation neglects the defense of the Castilian in those territories where there is a co-official language. In these territories, autonomous governments are established as the sole arbitrators of linguistic diversity, promoting in practice a war of languages that goes against the true constitutional spirit, which violates numerous laws and even final judicial sentences. The result is the defencelessness of entire groups. They do not endanger the languages, they endanger the rights and dignity of their speakers, they endanger the civil and cultural cohesion of our country. Specifically in Catalonia, the linguistic consensuses of the 1980s have been squandered, when all parties approached positions in order to promote a re-encounter on an equal footing of all languages. The unilateral declaration of Catalan as a native language of Catalonia and the imposition of a model of linguistic immersion that pre-posted and pre-posted Catalan as a vehicle language in schools and a preferred language in the Autonomous Administration sought to correct past abuses, but in practice it has equalized and surpassed all such abuses, leading to situations of cultural apartheid. It is committed not to adding languages, uniting and growing all together, but to dividing and separating, because the aggressive linguistic protectionism promoted in the last forty years since the successive governments of the Generalitat, including tripartites, has not only made cultural coexistence worse and broken the consensus, it has also left the Catalan language unharmed in the face of the challenges of digitalization and globalization. From the current Government of Catalonia, the promise is made to promote a new national pact for the language that restores the consensus and cultural dynamism of our society. In practice, everything goes in the opposite direction: the marginalization of the Spanishman and his speakers is reinforced and only the cooperation with the Government of the nation is sought to try to shield a model of Catalan imposition that has already been seen to be a failure. Within the same Catalan society, the social use of Catalan is reversed, or this is denounced, despite the virulence with which it is intended to impose its use in both the official and private spheres. It is time to change model, focus and, above all, ambition. I don't know if it's going to give me time to read all the proposals... yes, make it clear that we accept the amendments of the Joint Group. Besides, we want to recognize that..., "We want to recognize that the castle is the first language of many citizens of Catalonia. Point 1. Point 2: "Guarantee a minimum of twenty-five percent Spanish language classes at all non-university teaching levels. Point 3: "To guarantee the right of families of officials or professionals who have moved to Catalonia for less than two years to be able to enrol their children in their mother tongue. Point 4: «To ensure for you a minimum of twenty-five per cent of the Joint Group's share of the corporation – ‘and at least' – of the Joint Group – a maximum of twenty-five per cent of all the investments in linguistic and cultural promotion of the Generality, including audiovisual production aids, which are still for the Spanish language. And now the good thing comes: "To promote, together with the Government of Spain and the rest of the autonomous communities, a national pact for languages, with the aim of promoting cooperation between all public administrations – local, autonomous and national – to fix and defend the linguistic rights of the citizens in Spain in relation to the castle and other co-official languages in all areas of public life: education, cultural activities, communication media, presence of plataforms and relations with public administration. Together with the Government of Spain and the rest of the autonomous communities, a national council for languages, of which the Minister of Culture is a member, the Councillors of Culture of the autonomous and independent representatives of the world of culture, with the aim of carrying out the constitutional mandate to protect and promote the linguistic heritage of all Spain. They'll explain to me what kind of nose you can vote against all of this. Thank you. Good afternoon. We're still talking. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.164.0	It has the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Avançar, the MP Sílvia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.165.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen of the House. We have submitted papers to this House of Citizens and want to make some important considerations of respect. We'd like to make four points. The first relates to complexity. Language interventions are always complex, because current societies are complex. Institutions, businesses, social workers, education, we all have the responsibility to build a cohesive and plural society. And in order to advance in this cohesion and equal opportunities in Catalonia, it is essential to guarantee linguistic competence in Catalan and Castilian. The second consideration was about empowerment. The linguistic model of the education system in Catalonia is multilingual and intercultural. It is an inclusive, non-segregational, unique and exhilarating model; it seeks to empower the student, provide him with knowledge to exercise his linguistic rights. The focus of the education model is, as you know, in the result, it is to say, on the right and right of the student to know and believe the knowledge of the català and the castella. And what is the result of a model that is based on the result? Thus, for example, the data of the ESO quarter competition test, the recent ones of 2021: the 74.1_per_cent of the alumn assoles the Catalan language competitions, the 77.9_per_cent of the alumn assoles the Spanish language competitions. Our group has submitted reviews in this sense at points 2 and 3. The third consideration goes on the use. The Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation has the function of stimulating the use of català in all areas of society and promoting it in quality. In Catalonia the local abst communication media makes a majority use of the català, while the media that diphonate throughout the Spanish territory make preferably a use of the castle. The report of the audiovisual sector in Catalonia in 2020 which has just been published presents data: two of the televisions and four of the radio broadcasters broadcast in Catalonia as their vehicle language. Our group has also presented a message in this sense. And the fourth and final reflection went on recognizance. Spain must advance in the recognition of the multilingual character of the State and we think that it must do so together with the autonomous communities. We've also presented the message in this sense. Now, does this recognition have to be through a national pact for languages, as the motion proposes? Does it have to be through a state language law? Does it have to be through another different layout? This is an agreement to seek with the State and with territories with co-official languages. This is an agreement involving many institutions, and this is a big deal, which involves adapting the corresponding legal framework so that it is effective. We would have liked you to reach a higher level of achievement. In short, our parliamentary group has presented papers and deletions to the House with the intention of helping to focus on the recognition of complexity in the application of linguistic policies, the empowerment of the speakers seeking the education system, the use that can promote in all social spheres and the recognition of multilingualism as a heritage value. We have not rejected any response from Ciutadans. We have striven modestly to return water to the water of all, if they allow us, so that the language is not used to compare and segregate. It is precisely the opposite, what we have to do is continue to co-ordinate Catalan society and ensure equal opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.166.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Manuel Jesús Acosta, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.167.0	Thank you very much, President. A preliminary clarification, I would like to make. Mrs. Regant, VOX will always defend respect for people, respect for freedom. And, therefore, we will always be against fascist totalitarianism and communist totalitarianism, here in Parliament, in the street, and in the university. [[Some applause.]] Language is a tool for communication and therefore for individual and social growth. And, therefore, it should not become a barrier or a political instrument. Catalonia is a bilingual region in which Catalan and Castilian have lived together since time immemorial. This historical and social reality must be adequately protected and promoted by the institutions. However, hatred of Spanish, institutionalized in the Catalan educational system, harms personal dignity, violates individual freedom and rights, divides citizens and causes losses in learning. Remember, all of you have the right to use Spanish and the duty to know it. This democratic, social and cultural anomaly is a sad reality. For setting an example for them. According to the report of the Assembly of 21 May 2019 by the Bilingual School, after the study of 2,214 linguistic projects obtained thanks to the regulations on transparency, the ninety-five_per_cent of the linguistic projects of the public educational institutions of Catalonia state that only Catalan is the vehicle language of education. By the way, the Councilwoman of Universities, Mrs Geis, in an interview on TV3 on September 8th, committed an unacceptable – an unacceptable, I repeat – attack on the principle of equality and non-discrimination on the grounds of language – which, by the way, I hope the Bureau will take into account in order to apply Parliament's Code of Conduct properly – as a fascist to this House by a bilingual school that watches over the Spanish language in the classroom. Currently linguistic domination is a form of institutionalized hatred, apparently harmless but very effective, with dogma pretensions. In Catalonia the slogan of the Department of Education « A school, a language, a birth, or, on the other hand, « For a school of all, l'école en català, is imposed with conviction and religious passion. It is therefore necessary to defend Spanish without complexes, guaranteeing, once and for all, the right of Catalans to use the most spoken language in Catalonia and the second most spoken in the world. For this reason, the motion now before the citizens should, in our view, be much more firm and direct in the defence of Spanish, since, otherwise, it seems that its intention is simply not to offend separatism. We have tabled amendments to improve the text and to be able to support it, but they have not accepted them. It must be recognized that Spanish is also the language of all Catalans. Moreover, the socio-linguistic reality and the legal order demand that Spanish be a vehicle language at all school levels, without percentages of minimums which, moreover, if we already know, are never fulfilled. Finally, why push for a national pact for languages with the intention of reaching agreements on the use of Spanish, if we already have a true and solid consensus national pact regulating the use of Spanish throughout our nation? On the one hand, our history and culture, and on the other hand, Article 3 of the Spanish Constitution. The competent administrations must have an obligation to enforce these constitutional rights. In conclusion, we cannot seek to solve the problems by rounding up and creating more useless structures rather than directly addressing the causes behind them. Put aside the complexes, the fireworks with national pacts, and defend Spanish in the classrooms, which is what Catalans persecuted by separatism demand. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.168.0	Now the word, to defend the papers presented, the deputy lady Lorena Roldán, of the Group Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.169.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Go ahead and vote in favour of this motion. We also thank the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats for accepting our amendments, which... well, it was a nuance in the wording, but which seemed to us to be an important nuance. And, therefore, from here, I would like to say that I am grateful that you have been able to incorporate them into the final text. I will try to be ordered in the speech, because so has the Member who explained the motion, and so we follow the order a little. I believe that this motion says things that sometimes seem unnecessary, but that here in Catalonia have become necessary, above all, I insist, in recent years. The first of the points, recognizing that Spanish is, therefore, the language of many citizens in Catalonia, I do not think there would be anything to say. And also, well, it's the majority mother tongue, no matter how much some weigh. Is it right that recognition can be made from this Parliament? Yeah, we're in favour of doing that. But it is also sad that we have to include a point in a motion and vote on it. And besides, we'll see what those final votes look like, I'm pretty intrigued. The second of the points, ensure a minimum of twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish language classes at all non-university levels. Same thing. Too bad we have to include a minimum percentage here. It is a right that is recognized in the Constitution, courts have also had to pronounce. What, eye! the courts do not rule because, yes, they rule because the Department of Education is denying this right to families and, above all, to students to be able to attend school in their mother tongue. And, therefore, those parents have to go before a judge to ask for what is something, I insist, that should already be common sense. And what I find very sad is that the department forces families to go through a judicial process of these characteristics, when, moreover, they know that they will end up giving them reason. I believe that in this matter, already, what should be done is..., well, what should be done, is that it is your obligation, from an institution like the Government of the Generalitat, to comply with the law and comply with judicial decisions. And I insist that it seems to me serious that we have to come here and remember these very basic things. Therefore, yes, we want to guarantee that, at least, that percentage of the twenty-five_per_cent of Spanish as a vehicle language at school. And, moreover, it is no longer a question either, I insist, of legality, of sentences, of the Constitution... It is a subject that is based on pedagogical criteria. It is even recognized by the Convention on the Rights of the Child itself. It is also recognized by UNESCO, which speaks of mother-tongue learning as a facilitator of learning. And, therefore, let's really take a look, because then, if not, then we have Consteller Geis here saying genuine barbarities, as she said about the Association for a Bilingual School, which is dedicated precisely to protecting and preserving the right of students to be enrolled in their mother tongue. The third of the points, talking about those families, isn't it? , of some professionals who come from other parts of Spain to Catalonia in search of, therefore, a job, especially as the subject is today, that you cannot refuse a job, and that they have to do it, because they find that they have no educational offer to be able to school their children, with what that implies. And it seems to me very serious that someone cannot accept a job in Catalonia because you do not guarantee that the Spanish language is also a vehicle language. Eye! , along with the Catalan, which is that nobody here is saying... that is, we, unlike what you do, do not want to corner the Catalan. What we want is that what's normal on the street is normal also in the classrooms, of course. He also spoke, point four of this motion, of guaranteeing also a quota, in this case at least twenty-five_per_cent, of Castilian also in the corporation and in the investments of linguistic promotion. I repeat, if these are things of common sense, if what problem is there in the public media that we pay all Catalans to see a reflection of what exists in Catalan society? It's that, really... And this kind of demonstration as I referred to in the previous intervention..., in a children's program, Mag Lari : "No, I speak in Spanish because I am more afraid. We disguise it all under the concept of joke and humor and..., but in the end you are saying what is being said, and it is very serious – very serious. And then there is the subject of the national pact for languages and the national council for languages, which, well, the truth, because we have no competence here in the Parliament of Catalonia. It's not an impediment to us. If we have to urge the government from here, then we do. Why not? And we'll see. Let's see, I'm not very much in favour of setting up more advice, etc., because I think we have enough tools to do it, but we do not, of course, oppose everything that is promoting diversity and plurality, because in the end the languages would have to do is enrich us and not divide us, as is happening here in Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.170.0	Next, to fix the position, has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs. Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.171.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs... Miri, Mrs. Grau, you, the Ciutadans, seem like good students of Philip V and of all the functioning of his court that pushed the decrees of the New Plant. What's going on is that they're good students in intentions, but they haven't just learned to "don't notice the care, 'cause they're coming. If you see them coming in an hour ago. And they don't just find the point at the point of following very tempered and disguised instructions and provisions, so that the effect is achieved without the care being noticed and the praise is seen for an hour long. And if you see them so much, that you are able to implore the youth barbarity without getting red; barbarity such as, for example, speaking of cultural apartheid; barbarity absolutely dismountable from scientific knowledge and, truth, disrespect for the victims of apartheid. This is a young man full of misdemeanours, falsehoods and lies, and directly there's no time in five minutes to disassemble them one by one... everything you say in his argumentary, victimizing... you want to make believe that the Spanish language is the one that is discriminated against. And I'm just making this list so that I can unmount them I'd take every minute. The Republican Left Member of Parliament a moment ago did so on the subject of audiovisual. But I do take advantage of it to clarify some concepts. I think a little pedagogy will do you good, and a little more demanding and rigorous at the time of publishing arguments for exposure and motivation, too. Look, if one thing has achieved linguistic immersion, it is precisely to avoid the social fracture; the social fracture that it would have entailed – it is fixed that you are asking – to separate by language the schooling of people living in the country. Precisely, immersion is a direct link of access and learning from Catalan language to social cohesion and the struggle against exclusion. On the other hand, they use the word 'plurilingualism', and do they know exactly what it is? Do you know what it means to contribute to the management of linguistic diversity in Catalonia? Do you know what it is to worry about the linguistic rights of really minority language speakers – really minority languages, because the castle is not a minority language; the catalá yes – under a process of social and linguistic subordination in the mark of Western predatory states? That's the reality. Because no one of your proposals, no one, solves this problem; on the contrary. Because you know that, don't you? That they are more than three-hundred languages spoken by the inhabitants of Catalonia in their coexistence with the territory, not just the Castilian? Oblivion of all these languages and oblivion of what the concept of equity is. You're talking about equality, but we need to talk about equity, because it's unfair to treat what's different the same way. And when a language has been minority, as is Catalan, which has been and is a language pursued at the length of the last seconds, or when a language is minority or is in danger of extinction, there are policies of compensation. And I'm not saying, I'm saying European legislation. It is enshrined in the European Charter, Article 7.2. That's pretty clear. And another thing: the languages don't disappear because yes, as you imply in your youth. Language, in general, and here in the Spanish State in particular, confront the rights of the people with the interests of capital and the dominant elites. The dominant elites, who here are the elites of the 78th Regime. And the power of domination and cultural fascination towards peripheral identities, in the mark of the nation states, is absolutely demolishing. Therefore, the Catalan is attacked by many gangs, and in the capitalist framework in which to decide to devote a great deal of effort to protect culture in general, they call for tough policies to plant face and defend the freedom of minority communities in general, and especially for linguistic rights. And this, Mrs. Grau, dol. As soon as we see how you are positioned with this..., they add to the destructive attitudes against a minority language, which is to protect it. Obviously, we will vote against this motion. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.172.0	Thank you. Now it has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.173.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, I'll be very brief, since... some ideas about this Ciutadans Group motion. He says many lies, directly, but apart from it's an insult to intelligence. He states that the policies developed by the successive governments of the Generalitat de Catalunya in relation to linguistic normalization have matched and surpassed the Franco regime in abuses. Ole! The claim is disqualified for itself, and shows ignorance and directly bad faith. At the same time, it is oblivious that, precisely, the language model adopted as an integrator is the result of the struggle of popular Catalanism, of the migrant couples and seas of the sixties and seventies, which require for their children the same educational opportunities and tools as those of the bourgeoisie. And this is the base, isn't it? , of a people's sun promulgated by Benet, Candel, Sole and Tura, etc. Apart from – there is also a reference to the CUP – a cultural apartheid, while at the same time defending break with the integrative and linguistic immersion model of the Catalan language as the lengua d'accollida, and advocates at point 3, for example, a differentiated education for the children of working people arriving from other communities of the State. This is directly inconsistent. Next, for example, it leaves out and leaves no trace of the totality of linguistic diversity that migrant communities bring to Catalonia. This doesn't fit the rest of the languages. In addition, he asks that the castle be considered to be the first language of many citizens and citizens of Catalonia, and that is a misunderstanding of two terms. For a band, we have the term of own language, which is a legal term established for the State, not only of Catalonia, but the aragonese, the valence, the ballet, the galleque, etc. And, for another band, the concept of mother tongue, which is the one that can be one or can be diverse that is spoken and that the infant learns in his or her home environment. If they want to modify the concept, then they have the courage to promote the modification of the Statute. But well... Finally, with reference to the alleged national pact for languages, we believe that what is really necessary is to make the old demand come true– and, certainly, the compromise of the Socialist Party – to enact the law of languages that makes the mandate of Article 3.3 of the Constitution effective, the one that makes reference to "the richness of the different linguistic modalities of Spain is a cultural heritage that will be the object of special respect and protection. But well... Obviously, it is confirmed that, from a party born basically to make of the rich linguistic and cultural of this country a motivator of confrontation between the citizenry and political disdain from a nationalism more rancid than the one they intend to denounce, we cannot expect much more. That's why we're voting against this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.174.0	Thank you. In the name, now, of Junts per Catalunya, has the word the deputy Frenchc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.175.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good late. Mrs Grau, a previa: populism is a step of the lie, and this pseudo-diversity, sometimes, for my abuse, of Martian Chronicles seems to me to further undermine the credibility of your group. I don't know whether to start with the motius presentation, the question that you made back up, the operative part that has already been commented on, or the elements of the PP and VOX Group, that make a relay race to see that uses the language as a bigger lever still and more forcefully between the animations. Because you know, already, that constant demagology through the word, therefore, can come to create conflict, tension, polarization, separation, confrontation. And as that's his reason to be, so, from here it's not moving, here it's going on and on. From this PR, it seems to me that the most interesting, and I say it proactively, are some of the papers presented by the Socialist Group. For example, the Cinquena: "Promoting the recognition of the linguistic plurality of the Spanish State, articulating the normative changes needed to make it effective. And this can open the door to us to promote knowledge, diffusion, both to the State and internationally; to recognize also, it seems to me, the unity of the Catalan language, and it seems to me that this is a way of consensus that is much needed to bring forward a linguistic pact in Catalonia. It also seemed interesting to me the thought they have made, that it should be made clear that none of these has been accepted, that..., for which it fears public communication media in Catalonia. Mirin, for us, for Junts for Catalonia, language is a guarantee of the future for Catalan society. The català is not required, as you say; the català is opened, the català is taught, the català is promoted. And if he does, yes, the català is defense too. There are many reasons – two to say – to learn the català; one of individual and one of collectiva. Individual, linked to concepts of education, knowledge, training, equity, social ascent, new possibilities. And another collective, connected to us being in Catalonia, which is the language of our own, which is what comes from the Catalan nation, is that we feel very attached to our heritage, and that we have a collective responsibility, therefore, to keep it, to treat it, and that is continuing to speak at our home. And, besides, because language..., the two reasons are feedback because they are a factor of cohesion, as has been the case for all those that the seventy-eight years have adapted, they have integrated, they have learned català and used it in an indiscriminate, natural way. Consul Garriga said in the question: there are approximately 360,000 people living in Catalonia who do not understand the Catalan language. The disset_percent of these has been between five and two years living in Catalonia, and fifty per cent more than two years ago. In an anomalous situation such as this and any other environment, any responsible government must act, seek political actions, better, projects to reverse this situation. You said, "I, the tongues, defend them all. Home, therefore, do you not believe that defending them means providing solutions? And the solution is not to impose, but to teach. The solution does not pass through a bilingualism disguised as monolingualism or the monolingualism disguised as bilingualism, but for plurilingualism. Do you know what's going on? That you do not speak with sincerity or conviction on this subject. They're cheating. Barregen concepts, as the company of commons has well explained, the concept of own language of the Statue, a legal concept, with the concept of own language as family language. Diving is from law to Catalonia. Are you against the law? You, who use the mantra that without the law there is no democracy? So perhaps in linguistic terms there is no democracy at all. We'll vote against all points. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.176.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.177.0	Thank you. Good afternoon to everyone. Counselor... after following the... we will recover the inquiry that you did, Mrs. Grau, in July. It seemed to me that we might have another new movement of these from Ciutadans, which, in fact, came from a movement of Mr. Martín Blanco a little bit in the same line, and I thought we would never get out of this linguistic loop that you've been planting for quite a few years, which is this mental mark of comparing two languages with different social uses. And that's cheating. And, therefore, this linguistic loop, which we have not just come out, is not quite true, because today you have added a little bit more to it, which is that to the usual mantras you have added a banalization of the Franco dictatorship, which is certain that it is not voting, because it is on the operative side. I thought I wouldn't have the pleasure of reading it here, but you read it here: « Catalonia is experiencing a linguistic crisis typical of the times of Francoism. It seems to me that yesterday Mr. Carrizosa was so, so, so altered by future and anti-fessists, and it turns out that people don't care about the past and much less about the present, that they keep them here at large. And that's really what I'm worried about. Because this young man, who begins, as I say, making this equivalence between the democratic linguistic policy of the Government of Catalonia of the past decades..., compares it to a policy of persecution of a dictatorship, it seems to me that this invalid, although it is not a vow, the whole young man, because they plant it in terms that are completely cheating. And it seems to me that, taking into account the rise of the extreme right, coming here to talk about linguistic policy, and saying that the linguistic policy that the government makes is part of the political persecution of Francoism, it seems to me that it is gravity. And, therefore, I have already advanced that, for this reason and many others who have already come out in all the previous speeches, we will vote against it. Why? Because the debate, as I said, we always have it in the same terms. They want to match two languages that do not have a similar social use. Sabater was talking about it and I also did it at the intervention of the Lord's motion..., of his companion, Mr. Martín Blanco, who can't talk about equality policies, because what the social use of català needs are precisely public policies based on equity, because we're not talking about two languages..., go, they don't even come together in the social use. And for this reason, every time they bring this debate to the hemisphere and this loop they propose to us, they'll lose it. They've already seen it with the interventions not only of the independentist wing. Because that's not a mother tongue – I think it's based on particular cases that doesn't help the debate – but it's going to defend a minority and non-minority language. And, therefore, you continue to propose this linguistic liberalism, that language is regulated by itself, and neither can we allow it, accept it, can we? This great mantra. Language policy and the Spanish State are also being pursued. It's done by all the countries. And, therefore, another thing is that you do not like the language policy proposed by the Government. But that has nothing to do with talking about equity and equality policies. Another thing – and I think this is a band debate that you've introduced into this hemisphere – is if you want to believe that català is the language of a political project, in this case independence. And when we talk about linguistic immersion as a country consensus, exactly what we've always tried to do is protect the language from this idea that you want to implement. Catalan is not the language of independence, but the language of Catalonia, and this means that it went beyond the three independent parties of the chamber; this is the mental mark that you have wanted to impose on the hemisphere: that language is a political weapon, in the worst sense of the political word, to launch us among ourselves. But this has nothing to do with the government's language policy. And if they go through this line, then they'll find this common front that goes beyond the three independence parties. It seems to me that, as I said, banishing dictatorship and buying this mark is unfair; that if you really want to make a pact for languages, what you can start is to scandalize yourself with the law of the audiovisual or to claim that in justice the catalá is used in a more normal way, adding to all the examples that have already been put forward. And to me, personally – and I think I can speak not only on behalf of my group, but also on behalf of a large majority of the group – I find it hard to know that you wanted to market with the language, a language that the last thing I needed was to break the consensus we had and to reverse the social use of the language. I said it in July, I say it again now, if they come back to us in those terms, we'll say it again: if what you want is the supremacy of the castle, the answer will always be the same, which is not everything. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.178.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.179.0	Thank you, President. [[Pause.]] Well, so-so. As theoretically I only have to pronounce on the exams, I did not think to say or do to the groups that have sent it, but I will make an exception with the commons to tell the lady of the commons that, well, when it is touched by the ear it is known: it is not Solé Turà, it is Solé Tura. And, listen, and you have to reform the Statute, it's reform, while it's fine. They're on. I would like to thank the representative of the Mixed Group, first of all, for her comments, which, for their reason and constructiveness, we have accepted and also the constructive contribution to the debate. Mrs. Roldán, I agree with you that there are things you wouldn't have to say, but, seeing as the courtyard is... And, look, I prefer to ask for a national council of languages, even though I myself think I see it on a boat, than not to go to gunpoint to threaten the government in exchange for budgets. That is, I prefer to go ahead and with the institutions, not with parliamentary filibusterism. He said that we accepted the papers of the Joint Group; with great pain, in change, we are forced to reject those of the Socialist Group, from whom we have to say that we hoped for a little more than..., a little more than I don't know what, right? We understand that the PSC needs to balance with those who would like it to be their governing partners here one day and who are already there, but, man, even all the most vicious dialog tables are two, as at least. Why do you come to throw water at our proposals, instead of re-educating Francoist tics – yes, Francois, Mrs. Díaz – from the linguistic policy of these lords? Why do they not want to encourage all Spanish administrations to engage and collaborate in the defence of all Spanish languages? Why do they aim for the war of languages and leave us alone, completely alone, defending not the català against the castle or the castle against the català, but bilingualism, which no one else defends? And, gentlemen of VOX, do you think I'm afraid to turn on the separatists? Look, « Maricomplejines the righteous; Ciutadans and I are like this. We will not accept your amendments either, because they are a novice. Do not understand the mental framework, do not understand the Talibanism of "and your plus and the plus." It is not a question of defending the Spanish against Catalan, it is a question of defending bilingualism. Shall we all try it? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.180.0	Is there a separate motion for a vote for this point? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.181.0	We wanted a separate vote on points 2 and 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.182.0	Two and five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.183.0	One and five, he's forgiven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.184.0	1 and 5. All right, so let's proceed to the vote on point 1. The vote begins. This point was rejected with 41 votes in favour, 93 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was rejected with 9 votes in favour, 93 votes against and 32 abstentions. And now we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The motion was rejected, with 25 votes in favour and 109 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into language policies]] [[302-00033/13]] Let us now turn to the twenty-five on the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on linguistic policies; presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy lady Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.185.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, and all the people who followed us, who followed the plenary, especially today; many of the entities, many of the people who, from their professional role or activism, fought every day for the defense of language, to face this linguistic inequality that we suffer from Catalan speaking people and to the growing loss of individual rights and collections that the Catalan language suffers in its own territory of use. Today's debate and vote in Parliament of a motion on linguistic policies is produced just four years... yes, just four years after the last one. And it is in a growing context of alarm, that forces us, as the institution, to overcome the fragmentation and political subordination that we suffer from the autonomic context, that conditions us and forces us to manage properly, once and for all, linguistic diversity in the framework of the 21st century complexity paradigms. Because we're under the effect of a very powerful state offensive and we're under the effects of important changes in the way we communicate and how we live the ocean and how we use language. Of this state offensive we have spoken before with the whole subject of the law of the audiovisual, in many examples, but we also saw it the other day with President Pedro Sánchez in Galicia, promising policies of strengthening the castle from any other official language in the State and relating the economic progress exclusively to this language. This is an extensive motion – yes, very much –; as extensive as the leave of these past years, and as the problem deserves. And despite being so extensive, I assure you that there are still many things left out and that, as I have already warned, there will be many motions for resolutions to different committees on the subject of language. These days, reading sociolinguist Albert Bastardas and his analysis of linguistic diversity and the situation of the Catalan language from the paradigm of Morin's complexity, he thought of how we have managed to apply still 20th century policies, when life and communication already circulate through the digital globalization of the 21st century. There has been enough talk of the motion on the audiovisual, but we need to catch it urgently, and the Parliament must be a wall of content of this loss of right language, also taking into account activism, the proactivity of groups that want to impose the supremacy of the Spanish language and that want, in some way, to continue this decree of the New Plant three hundred years ago. This is a young woman who wants to advance on three fronts, basically. First, in the field of cooperation between the institutional and social worlds, proposing this constructive idea of the National Pact for Catalan Language with a perspective of linguistic unity of the Catalan speaking sphere – is to say, of Catalan Countries – and with participation of civil society. Another chapter, another block of proposals that are in the institutional field of linguistic policy, which, in some ways, calls for commitments many times before, is it not? – We are from a young man four years ago that many agreements have not been completed or also of laws that are there, that we have them, and that we have them, but that we are not executing them. And, therefore, it is a follow-up of proposals calling for pro-activity in all these terms. And, in the third place, the framework of relations with the State and in the matter of acting against the legal imbalance in favour of the castle in Spanish legislation, and a follow-up of very specific proposals as well. You have made papers; you have made papers the Socialist Party, In Comú Pode and the groups of the Government – Together for Catalonia and the Republican Left. We've been open to negotiating them. I would like to point out that there has been a negotiation attempt more than not to reject, that it wanted to trade. Some transactions have gone ahead, some haven't. But it seems to me that it's important, this exercise that we've done to achieve the highest consensus, and it's been a piece of work against clockwork that I want to deeply appreciate. The difficulties detected in reaching the consensus deserve capitol to the band. I think they're a very good example, too, of which are the positions of each group, and I'd like to highlight a few relevant aspects, but obviously I'll do it after listening to all of you. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.186.0	It has the word, now, to defend the papers presented, Mrs Jessica González, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.187.0	Thank you, President. Before entering the commentaries of the motion we are discussing, it is only curious that the Ciutadans Group wants to defend bilingualism by making a totally depressing correction for a pronunciation issue to a person who has emigrated and is trying to speak Catalan. [[Greetings.]] To all the people migrated from this country, if they see us – because it is infumable, sometimes, to see these sessions, and that's to be said – if someone corrects you to speak Catalan..., look, pull forward, that here I am, for example, and many migrant people giving face..., and speaking Catalan. So, don't let people like these, haters, let you pull back. And this space and this institution and this country are also ours. [[Greetings.]] I continue to thank the People's Unity Candidate for the good understanding in the process of this movement's issues. We celebrate, in fact, that point 1.1 has been accepted, since we agree that unitarily defending the Catalan language... that is why, to do so, it is necessary to flee from linguistic centralism. And things like, for example, putting into value the compromise of the 2007 Palma Declaration, which allows us to work together with all institutions in all Catalan speaking territories..., this should be the way forward. It is necessary to continue to defend working together with other governments to promote normalization of language through means such as the Ramon Llull Institute, and considering the scientific criteria of the Catalan Institute of Studies, the Valencian Academy of Language or the University of Mallorca. We also welcome the acceptance of our 2.9-additional theme by the proposed group, since we have defended, from En Comú Pom, the cross-cutting nature of the General Secretariat for Linguistic Policy and that it does not necessarily have to be subject to the field of culture. Linguistic policies must be cross-cutting and must depend on the Presidency to provide them with the resources and the cross-cutting vision of all the departments they should have. And, in this same line, the addition of the Socialist Party to equip the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization with the resources necessary to make an adequate promotion of the use of the catal..., we agree. We, in fact, proposed and already stipulated that it should be a 0.5_percent of the Generality's assumption, and that it should be guaranteed to the assumption that it would be closed before the year ended. And, finally, a couple of observations respect point 1.4 and 2.4, which recall that the pact aims to ensure that the Catalan and Occitan language in Aran ceases to be minority, and they also talk about encouraging rigorous studies to avoid this minority. Here the data shows that the situation of the orange tree is much more dangerous and is much more diminished, and we consider that it has a proper entity and a situation of such gravity to develop specific tools and a special treatment, so that it has a higher level of protection. With respect to point 2.b and 2.c, totally in agreement with requiring the Government of the State to act in accordance with the Spanish Constitution regarding linguistic pluralism. And here we would also add that we must press for the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minorities – Celrom – which, even though we have ratified it, the Spanish State does not currently complete it. Finally, we fully agree on the fact that, in point 2.c, the recognition of the official use of català in political spaces such as the Congress of Deputies and the Senate. In fact, you know that from Comú we can bet for a plurinational state and recognition of Catalonia as a nation, and from this plurinational recognition it is necessary to recognize the pluralism of languages also to the organ of the State and, of course, to allocate the adient premise to it. For all this, we will vote in favour of most points of this resolution. And we continue to work so that the català is not a tool of discrimination neither to this chamber nor to the place of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.188.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the Member of Parliament, Sílvia Romero, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.189.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, ladies and gentlemen, we need to continue to drive knowledge and use of the Catalan language as we need to continue to consolidate its presence in all spheres. We would like all parliamentary groups to be able to share these objectives. We find ourselves in these moments in a situation that we could perhaps sum up with those words so famous of Pompeu Fabra: "I can never leave my pocket or hope. We have certainly relaxed or lost sight of the fact that the social situation has changed in the past few years, and signs have emerged that warn us of another delicate moment for language: backward in the interpersonal linguistic uses that can be seen, for example, through the evolution of the Enquest of Linguistic Uses between 2013 and 2018– 200,000 less-to-llar speakers, 600,000 less-to-small-trade speakers, 700,000 less-to-bank entities – or the Enquest to the young lady of Barcelona of 2020, who places the català as the usual language of only 28.4_percent of the young people who come to Barcelona, seven percentage points below the same question in 2015. Surely young people – and it has been commented on in different debates at this late stage – have few informal references in Catalan, and this can cause an association of language with school uses, in certain social classes..., can be causes of this backwardness. We also think, therefore, that we need to study more closely the migration from the beginning of 2000 and what influence it has had on the descent of the usual use of català despite the efforts in the extension of knowledge and the use it has been, for example, at the expense of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization. In short, we need more solvent data to identify which are these new difficulties in which the català is found. In the 1990s, as you know, linguistic normalization made it possible to use català in all areas by Catalan speakers, while at the same time exerting an important attraction of Spanish speakers. This trend of maintenance and linguistic convergence towards the catalá worked, and in this Parliament there are certainly many examples of the increase in language knowledge thanks to the education system. That's why today the percentage of people who identify with the catalá is higher than the percentage of people we have as the first language. We say so because we think that we need to continue to guarantee and expand this identification. And we say so because the use of a language – what follows – is active and increases in the measure that it is useful and attractive. Let's think this is the question. The CUP presents in its motion different levels of intervention to boost the use of language: national pact for language, compliment of parliamentary agreements, studies, emergency plans... But let us remember that the actors of linguistic policies are multiple. They're not just the state and the generality; they're political parties, businesses, unions... all of them, and they should be counted. We found missing, in this young man, that it is certainly extensive, these questions that we comment on. The task and the hope that Fabra is referring to surely are today to recover these mechanisms for identifying speakers with language and to recover the value of being a useful language in all communication situations. Our group has submitted 15 papers to the House. Some are terminological; others are conceptual; others are concrete actions, such as equipping the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization with the necessary resources because they continue to be a functional tool to continue working in the català. We'll vote for some of these points. We appreciate the work of Congresswoman Sabater, her willingness to get to an understanding, even though we think, therefore, that we can raise such important questions as that of the language in a broader way and seeking consensus. Remember Norma? I'm sure those who are a few years old remember the Norm. So yes: "It's up to you, it's up to everyone. In this very important matter, we are looking for broad approaches and for my consent. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.190.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.191.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... I have been told by some other groups, and I want to start here: many thanks to the CUP, but especially to the Dolors Sabater, for this way that it has to be political, friendly, constructive. That's what happened, too, in the results you're getting. Thank you very much. We like that you have placed the language as a central element in this first parliamentary debate, because we want it to be that way. Actually, you know all the deputies and deputies that we've proposed a monogram ple to talk about language. And we want that in this Chamber, that in this Parliament, there are joint initiatives to demonstrate the robustness and robustness of the Parliament in defending the Catalan language of Catalonia. For any society, language is an essential intangible that can protect, know, recognize and promote, and much more for a nation without being like Catalonia. Some Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament have heard me say some time that in the last parliamentary term we felt a little alone, like Junts for Catalonia, defending linguistic issues. And that, that for the political groups sometimes is positive, because it's good that a job is recognizable in a specific camp, in this case we didn't like people. And we're very pleased to go back to this idea that language is no one's heritage, but that it's everyone's heritage and that we have to work together. Because defending a language doesn't go against a language. And the other way around: if you're against a language, you're against all languages. Defending a language is defending them all; attacking one is attacking them all. The most admirable Carmel Junyent, who is now updated for the free We are women, we are linguistics, we are many and we are good – and now we will not get into this debate, which would be a very long debate – she was my teacher a long time ago, many years ago, in the middle of the North, at the School of Political Studies Randa. And she, at that time, explained to us her theory of Ecolinguistics, which she had made her – not quite her own, but her own – which is a precious theory that explains the fragile balance that languages have. She compared it to an ecosystem in which it doesn't matter so much the size of the element – if you have a lot or few speakers – but how it affects the conjunction of this ecosystem the fact that there is one that backs up, because they all back up. In fact, in a less scientific way, but much more beautiful, Federico Fellini already said: he said that every language is a way of seeing life, and anthropolegs – all – also agree that every language is a cosmos. And I wanted to make this introduction, less focused on what the youth is strictly about, because the language – we would like, and that is what we are proposing today, and that is what we would try during this parliamentary term when we talk about language – it cannot be a trigger weapon in this Parliament; on the contrary, it must be an element to preserve, to take care of. Moreover, in Parliament, we should enslave those political groups who want to make the language a lancivola weapon, who want to make the language a space of division. Because, by definition, languages are tools of understanding, they are tools of finding. In the linguistic consensus there can not only be a part of this hemisphere; on the contrary, it must be a space for finding all parliamentary groups that consider democracy and that consider coexistence. In this sense, I want to defend – and in this too there is much to see the attitude of the owner of the young man – contributions that have made, for example, the common ones, and that the CUP has heard, as, for example, to back us up with the fact of working together in which it is the compromise of Palma of 2017. I think it's a positive contribution, because it gives us a boost. And I also want to highlight the good work, the valuable contributions that the Socialist Party has made, beyond the fact that they have all arrived, or not, at the right time. Today – and I want to tell you with all humility – that in this agreement, in this meeting for the Catalan language, you must be. You can't make party calculations, you can't allow it, we can't allow it. I, therefore, welcome this attitude. Strictly on the motion, we will vote practically all in favour. We only have two points in which we cannot vote for the culture of coalition, because we believe that it is actually close to the department to do as it proposes. And, in these few seconds that remain, I would like to use a few words from Master Joan Solà, from this same Faristol, on July 1, 2009, talking about the language, who said: "This is a pocket of all Catalan speakers. But you, as parliamentarians elected by the people and as legislators, have a greater responsibility. We also present it in the responsibility we have in the backbone of the country, in the proper language, with the català in the Principality and with the chance – the Aranes – in the Vall d'Aran. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.192.0	Thank you very much. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Irene Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.193.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good late. Before anything else, thank the man for the company and company of the Popular Unity Candidacy, and also especially for the deal and work we have done with Congresswoman Sabater. Well, all the parliamentary initiative that you supposed to put on the table the linguistic reality of the country and, moreover, in a current context helps us, and helps us a lot. And it helps us to close down in three evidences. The first evidence is that we have to be proud and proud of an esteemed language, written and spoken, like the Catalan at the conjunction of all the Catalan Countries. A language used in all the social classes of this country, a tool of cohesion, with many different uses and functions, that has reached our days exceeding a lot of time and a lot of grey and that has generated literature, music, theatre and culture of a lot of quality, of which, therefore, I say that we have to be very proud. The second evidence is self-management: we need to have the tools of a state close to us to ensure the survival of the català. We know and see in recent studies that the català is at a critical time for its survival. And we can't and, besides, we don't want to leave this Catalan survival in the hands of the Spanish State. Disproposals that, in fact, do not surprise us, like the general law of audiovisual communication, read that they arrive late and poorly, as it has been said during this late afternoon in this chamber, today itself, go against the path that we should follow in the repte of the audiovisual. And the third, but not least, is that, after a decade without initiative, it is up to us to move and generate a new impulse to save the language, activating a consensus among all the parties involved to work to ensure that the Catalan, the orange and the Catalan sign languages are accessible, well-functioning and respected. That is why last week, at the general policy debate, the motion for a resolution in favour of the national language pact, a motion for a resolution with an eighty-five percent support in this Parliament, was approved, because it is now, more than ever, when we need to add all the actions, all the necessary support, all the possible efforts to save the català. Cal, therefore, regain the momentum and political dynamism that a republican council to the captivating of Culture assumed. It is necessary to reverse the paralysis and activate all the mechanisms that must allow the development of laws that are guarantors of the linguistic rights of the citizenry. Finally, we also know that it has been working since the council in the functioning of all the mechanisms of promotion and protection of language in all areas in order to strengthen the linguistic security of people. Initiatives that, with firmness and guaranteeing rights for everyone, will mark the way to ensure that the Catalan follows this vehicle of expression of our society, the characteristic trait of our culture and heritage, also of the non-Catalan speaking inhabitants of our country. And, in this sense, and passing on to the vote of the motion, we share, Mrs Sabater – I know –, most of the points of the motion. We're celebrating the transactions we've been able to make. We will vote in favour of most points. Well, let's just say that, two concrete points... 1.5, that we don't think we can condition ourselves to complete the terms of a first meeting. We avoid marking a date and a place on a calendar, which can even bring us rigour in the work. And we do it with the utmost consent; in fact, the priority is – I don't doubt – in this sense. And point 2.9..., the space of the General Secretary of Linguistic Policy is– we consider, and so it is structured– the department..., belonging to the Department of Culture. And it's and will continue to feel transversal. There's no doubt about that, either. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.194.0	I, after defending the papers presented, now has the word, to fix his position, the deputy Mr Joan Garriga, of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.195.0	Thank you, President. This CUP motion on linguistic policies fails even the whole title: it's not about linguistic policies, it's about the imposition of català as the only language of the republic. They talk about normalization, and look, I, at home, have always spoken Catalan, with my mother, with my Germans and with my children. But my children speak Spanish to their mother, and they are normal – they are normal. [[Widow's remorse.]] The people who speak Spanish at home are also normal; they can't normalize them, because they're also normal. Because the normal thing is freedom and respect for the two languages that we have in our esteemed region, in Catalonia, Catalan and Spanish, close to all Catalans and the conjunct of Spanish. They also speak of cohesion, and cohesion is achieved with respect. Cohesion is not imposing a language on a territory where there are two. Speak of Catalan Countries. Honestly, we're not doing well. Because, of course, it's a lack of respect for the regions, isn't it? : Aragó, València, France, Italia... They are cute imperialists or fictional imperialists. You're totalitarian, gentlemen of the CUP. And, carried for their communist totalitarianism, they want to continue imposing the language of the vehicle, the lectography only in Catalan and the sanction for those who retaliate in Spanish to Catalonia – they say –, to Aragó, to València, to France, to Italy... You need a course in education, because you criticize the speech of motius the language change in a particular conversation and say it's done out of guilt. No, changing language when the speaker does not know catalá is said to be education. To their proposals they say things like a national pact. They lie: neither pact nor national. "No deal, because they want to impose a model_sol. « National? Let's get those imperialist delusions back to other regions of Spain and to other countries in the world. And we remind them that Spain is the only country and birth of Catalans. They want it to be'state of mind'. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You're more nationalistic than the corrupt Jordi Pujol. Because their nationalism preaches the least for other nations, cultures or languages, which is what you do with Spanish. And his nationalism is out and he hates, for example, Spain. Patriotism is, on the other hand, love for one's own country, it's inclusive and it's based on the hope that it connects a community with a common project of coexistence. In this proposal they use verbs favourable to their ideas: « impose, « make complete, « execute... They are so little democratic that they do not want to give nor the freedom to choose the language at school. To those children who speak Spanish at home – and it is not a sin – and want to learn to read and write in their mother tongue..., do not leave them, to the children, nor this right. They want to economically equip language tax plans... not to help pay for the waste of light. You guys shut up about the language, huh? , lords of the CUP. All right. Because you are Hispanic, bilingual negators, liberticians, obsessives, Catalan supremacists, censors – because they love the fines. And lastly, the CUPs, they live away from the reality of the barrels and the streets of Catalonia, because our society is bilingual, and it's been going on for a long time. You want to impose a model and not respect the plurality of our esteemed region. And look, I will finish this intervention in another language of the Catalans, of all the Spanish and of all the citizens of the iberosphere, language that I did not speak at home: Spanish; language that speaks most of the Catalans, all the Spanish and 560_million people in the world. And thanks to Hispanidad, which we are going to celebrate next Tuesday, October 12, is official in twenty countries. Spanish is a luxury that you want to deprive millions of Catalans of, and when we govern Spain we will guarantee the use of this precious language, Spanish, in all areas and throughout the national territory. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.196.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.197.0	Mrs. Sabater, I hope I don't give you a terrible disgust if I tell you that your young lady seems to us to be ruddy, cavernical, paranoid, delirious and an absolute monument to bad faith. So much for what they seem to say with good intent is an absolute disaster. It's hard for us to know, but we have to vote against it all the way down. Mirin, to me, as the whole Catalan gironina that I know, as the person who has left many years and energies in the defense of the language and culture here, is that it hurts me only to read what you write. In each line I see a punched trapera no longer to bilingualism – as I wear all the late lamenting – but above all, and especially to the dignity of the Catalan language. Ai, what would poor Jordi Solé Tura say, if you raise your head... Have you ever considered that, when you make bilingualism and the freedom of languages thunder, the first language that you suffer – in slang, the first that ‘palate' – is the language that few people speak? Isn't it clear to them that Netflix and Disney are refocusing on the Language Platform and the CUP? Come and insist that català is the language of its own and origin from all Catalan Countries. Here it is, as if it has never been spoken – here and there – before, during and after the escalate of the Catalan language. You must confuse the Cid Champion, in Jaume I, and, both, with Carles Puigdemont à l'Alguer. By the way, to the comrades of VOX, I take the opportunity to tell you something that has not given me time before, that is that your proposal that Spanish be declared a native language of all Catalans without exception..., for look, this is a catheter as much as that of them pretending that there is no other native language of Catalans as Catalan. One day it will be necessary to put order and recognize that the territories do not have their own languages, only official ones, and that, among these official languages, citizens choose to consider their own language as the one that gives them the desire. Ball point. But, well, you insist on talking about Catalan as a minority language. And I'm asking, "Minorized over here?" Doesn't it have to be for yourselves? , because of its radical narrowing of linguistic, cultural and political sights? Why do I look as if to defend that linguistic immersion has been a success and – pants 't – a tool of cohesion and not of fracture or division, or even an equaler of opportunities, it must be very cynical or it must be very silly, huh? A lot. They say that Spain actively favors the supremacy of the castle of the Spanish territory. Here, then, is only here, in these many Spanish territories that you and I climb, there is plenty of room. Look, if the famous Spanish State – that you say so, looking at the view, as if we were talking about the man of the sack – set up in defense of the supremacy of the castle run from the Spanish territory only a deu_per_cent of the bad light and the bad drudgery that they have laid and laid on you to hide the castle of the Catalan public media and up to the foot of the schools, here no one would know how to do this truncated with a canut. And do they still have the inclinations to propose that the national pact for Catalan language is planted as a matter of state? I'm sorry, this is what I've been trying all this time: to propose to involve from the State until the last meeting of Spain, with Catalonia within, to agree a cooperative and coordinated defense of all the languages of Spain, also of Catalan. And most of you have voted against this, preferring this delirious young man and presenting shameless, enjoining, like now, for example, that you can't press the Administration..., that you can only be in catalá and you can't even repeat the same thing in castella. It is that, forgive me, you see a parallel and altered reality where the català only speaks to the people at the War of the Galaxies bar. They think that only the fanatical and fanatical people talk like you. So look, I have good news or bad news, according to what it looks like: it turns out that the Catalan language is not Catalonia's own language, in reality, but it is much more people than you think, Catalan speaking much more varied, free and diverse than you are able to imagine. In summary, they carry their raw bunches from the Catalan language. Let her live, instead of making her die. They let the catalanity that esteems it, the ones that esteem it, not that they understand to be catalan how to be anti-all and not be able to go to sleep quiet without cremating some Spanish flag or some content. And see if one day we can keep the party and the language in peace. I'm done. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.198.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.199.0	Yes, thank you, President. Man, maybe I don't get so trembling. [[the speaker laughs]] , because, of course... the deliriums of the CUP on what issues we already know them, there is no need here to be the big ones surprised. We all knew what this motion was going to do when we heard the question in the previous plenary session; therefore, well, nothing happened either. Yes, it is true that there are some points of the motion that, in truth, I have to admit that they are at least..., funny – I'm going to say – surprising; I don't know, they leave you a little..., a little stopped, don't they? Starting with that usual language you have, which you have called "imperialists." But it's just, of course, the subject of the Catalan Countries, well, well, Xavier Rius was already saying it, wasn't it? , exists only in the minds of some and in the time map of TV3. And as much as you're repeating it, it's what it is. But, well, you strive to put it here and we will strive to continue to vote no and remind you that this only exists in your head. Then you have also here, for example, point 1.3, which speaks of..., well, this national pact for Catalan language, which they want to do together with the associative fabric, the cultural, in defense of the language. That I here very much fear that again will benefit Platform for Language. I don't know how they do it, but they always benefit, with you. Then they also want to make the first meeting..., « call a first meeting of work in the maximum term of three months to Perpinyà. Now, look, this is a deference, because maybe you can go to Perpignan, so you can go to Puigdemont, Ponsati and company, and you'll find the first meeting more interesting. Okay. You are considered with the location of the meeting. Then they also speak, in point 2.3..., to assume as such the linguistic emergency. Man, let's see, let's put it a little in context, because maybe linguistic emergency isn't – it isn't. What is a priority theme for you? Yes, but, man, linguistic emergency, with which it's falling out there..., maybe not – maybe not – but well... More things. Point 2.5 – I like this one – says: "To enforce everything that is established by the different laws in force in language matters. Man, start – start – because it is that they do not even comply with the Constitution, do not comply with the judicial decisions, the requirements of at least schooling in twenty-five_per_cent in Spanish are skipped. Well, hey, I agree with this one. Make you comply with the laws in force. Talk to the government, with Mr Gonzàlez Cambray, who seems to be not very clear, and Mrs Geis, who is not, either. Then there is another point, 2.7a, which is about the conferences, the press conferences, that are given from the institutions. I think this doesn't even have to ask, because we've already lived it, this, here. We have already lived with spokespersons from this government or with relevant members of this Parliament – the most relevant, I dare say – the President of Parliament, who do not answer in the press in Spanish. Therefore, perhaps the point this is superfluous. I also wonder if it goes the other way. I mean, if at a press conference you ask us or... that we repeat in Catalan, will this also be opposed to you or not? Because that's what happens. We have no inconvenience in doing so in both languages, but you can see that there are others who do. Then again, in point 2.8, draw up and implement a plan for research, prevention and treatment of language discrimination. This one's gonna be curious. Let's see what comes out of this plan of research and discrimination on the grounds of language, that maybe we take some surprise, because I see discrimination here, but with Spanish, with Spanish. We'll see what happens if you move on with that plan, although I'm afraid you're not going to study it, you're going to look at other things that you're more interested in. Then 3.2. It's funny, too. He says: "To urge the Government of the Spanish State to modify or repeal all those laws, decrees, ministerial orders, resolutions and any other regulations that favor the Spanish..., ta-ta-ta. That is to say, it is very funny: you come here, you spend the day claiming that this Parliament is sovereign in order to pass the laws that seem to you..., ta-ta-ta, but those that are adopted there..., these must modify or repeal all of them. [[the speaker laughs]] And they put him on a motion, in writing. Me, honestly... The truth is that there are many points that are not wasted, but there is one that I thought I would never – never – hear from his mouth, which is 2.7.b. There is the UPC here, at this point, calling for compliance with the Constitution. Hallelujah and welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.200.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mrs Dolors Sabater's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.201.0	Thank you very much. Before we begin, just say that..., remember that the freedom we long for Catalans and Catalans is that of being able to choose nationality, and this one is private to us. [[Greetings.]] Also to choose language to speak, and to be able to choose, you have to have access to it, huh? Many of this young man's shares also gave this freedom to everyone, whom no one was deprived of the freedom to choose. Well, I, of the motions..., agrate, don't I? These points which will vote mostly in favour, even if there are some who will not. I would like, in any case, to focus on those who did not vote in favour, only to make a couple of things. On the topic of Perpinyà: for us it was important. I know you won't vote for it, and so it's very possible that it won't prosper, unless someone changed, right? ... Why was it important? Because precisely this young man, when he's claiming the unity of language and we're talking about these Catalan Countries, these Catalan speaking territories in their totality... To do the same in Perpinya, in addition, in the context of a deprivation, of a regression that they are now patenting for Molac law, and that the public schools like Arrels, therefore, are deprived of being able to facilitate this access to language to Catalan-speaking people, so it seemed to us that it was a gesture that... Honestly, we don't understand..., say, it's hard to understand why they didn't want to accept it. And the other, the common company, on the subject of catalanophobia, right? I understand that the deal they made gathered a lot of the input they had made, but it seemed that the term 'catalanophobia' is a term that still makes a certain respect, but that I think it is very important that we approach it in the whole sense of the word. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.202.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. We shall proceed to the vote. There are petitions for separate votes. [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.203.0	Thank you. To ask for the separate vote on points 2.7a and 2.8, which could be voted jointly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.204.0	Perfect. More petitions? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.205.0	A lot of separate votes, huh? If he wants, I'll tell him the two blocks, but I've got a lot of them. [[The joker laughs.]] It would have a block 1, which is 1.1, 1.2, 1.4, 2.3, 2.8, 3.7, 3.7.1, 3.7.2 and 3.7.3. And then there would be another block, which would set 1.5, 2.7.a, 2.7.b, 3, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6. I'm having a hard time, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.206.0	Thank you. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.207.0	Yeah, only two. The 1.5, we'd like to... yes? Because he put it there... all grouped together. In any case, 1.5 and 2.9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.208.0	Perfect. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] No, no, All right, let's see if we can do this. We shall vote in a first block on points 1.1, 1.2, 1.4, 2.3, 3.7.1, 3.7.2, 3.7.3. It's the first block you told me, Mrs Romero. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The vote begins. These points were approved, with 82 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 32 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 1.5 and 2.9. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't they want to vote together, these two? [[Pause.]] Oh, okay. So let's do the 1.5. I'm sorry, I'm starting again. We're voting point 1.5. The vote begins. Point 1.5 was not approved, with 17 votes in favour and 116 votes against. We now vote on points 2.7.a and 2.7.b. They want them separately, too? [[Pause.]] Okay. So 2.7.a. The vote begins. Point 2.7a_ has been approved, with 74 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 8 abstentions. Fem now 2.7.b. The vote begins. Point 2.7.b_has been approved, with 81 votes in favour, 52 votes against and one person who does not vote. 2.7c. The vote begins. Point 2.7_c was approved, with 114 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We're voting now on point 2.8. The vote begins. The 2.8_point was approved, with 74 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 40 abstentions. We're voting 2.9 now. The vote begins. Point 2.9 has not been approved. He got 48 votes in favour, 85 votes against. We now vote on the block of points 3, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5 and 3.6. The vote begins. This block of points... have been approved, with 81 votes in favour and 52 votes against. And, finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points were approved, with 114 votes in favour and 20 votes against. Let's move on to the twenty-and-seventh of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on scholarships and university aid, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Judith Toronjo... [[Some Members make some observations of dissent.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Ah, I missed a point. I had a feeling I'd go easy and... [[The president laughs.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into urban policies for social and environmental recovery in vulnerable barrels]] [[302-00030/13]] Let's move on to twenty-six on the order of the day – excuse me – the motion following the government's inquiry into urban policies of social and environmental recovery in vulnerable barrels. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has presented it, and to expose it, Mr Marc Parés has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.209.0	Thank you, President. The first thing we want to do with this young man is to see not so much a reality as a necessity. And it is that, before the growth of the dynamics of urban segregation, and therefore of the expression of inequalities over the territory, before a post-pandemic reality in which those most vulnerable and vile barrels are the most affected by the situation of the pandemic, and also towards an obvious climate emergency, isn't it? , in which we believe that it is necessary to bring the ecological transition to all the barrels and viles of the country, so..., near this new scener, Catalonia needs a new wave of urban policies aimed at the barrels and viles with a greater situation of vulnerability. We believe that it is a public, integral and territorial intervention to achieve an objective, in the end, right? Which is that your postal code doesn't determine, don't be a burden on your life plan. Or, in other words, to ensure that your bar, whatever it is, offers you a whole series of territorial opportunity structures: training opportunities, job opportunities, relational opportunities, services, public space equipment, and, consequently, that your bar is a place where you want to live and not a place where you want to go. And that's why resources are called for, so that these resources are managed from the municipalities, and that they are participatively promoting projects of integral intervention in these territories. Because if one thing characterizes the reality of these territories, it is a huge complexity, and there are no simple recipes for complex problems. We believe, moreover, that the distribution of resources should also be adjusted to the needs and the reality of each municipality. Mirin, a recent study of the Igop showed how the cities of the second metropolitan crown– Mataró, Granollers, Terrassa, Sabadell, Vilanova, Vilafranca – are accumulating great problems of urban segregation: an increase of the population in vulnerable situation, arriving from new population of low returns while marching population of medium and high returns to the municipality of the surrounding area... And, at the same time, it is precisely these cities that have fewer economic resources per capita, significantly less than the municipalities around their urban system – municipalities or cities that also have a lower tax base – and, therefore, in general, enjoy less financial autonomy. And, therefore, what it is necessary to redistribute resources also in territorial terms, in an objective way, to allocate them where they are most needed. And, well, to face this need, we in the femme motion basically two great proposals, huh? The first, and with urgency, is to ask the Government to launch a new call to finance comprehensive interventions in vulnerable slums and slums taking advantage of the resources of the Next Generation funds that will now be available on the table, as well as those of the Ministry for Economic Transition and the Democratic Repte, and also with adequate resources. Therefore, an urgent new call was made to address this need. And, secondly, we propose to push from here, from the Parliament, a new law of barrels suitable for the present time, and, therefore, a new law of green barrels, which, in our opinion, should have five great innovations compared to the law of 2004. The first: we think it has to be a law because vulnerable barrels are not left out of the ecological transition. Therefore, with climate change mitigation actions, with urban green infrastructure, with self-consumption, with the impulse of local energy communities. The second: a law that allows you to enter the habitations, which with the 2004 law did not come to do. And, therefore, a law that directly addresses the rehabilitation of habitats, both in terms of energy efficiency and in terms of dignity of living conditions. The third novelty we've planted: a law that favored recovery in a post-pandemic scene. And, therefore, the potential of the economy and local and local trade, the potential for effective and quality occupation, community health and public space, so necessary in vulnerable barrels. The fourth novelty: a law with a strong social perspective and promoting gender equity in urban environments. And also promoting a determined policy on social housing, an innovative policy, with the promotion of public housing, but also with the promotion of cooperative housing in cessation of use, with the mobilization of empty housing, with the conversion of tourist use habitats into residential housing or with preventive actions against denomiments. And, lastly, a law that strengthens the community and participatory dimension. And, therefore, it encourages the veins and veins to self-organize to claim their rights and to satisfy their own needs. So, in short, a new law for some time. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.210.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.211.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... this is a young man who is already the advance we will vote for in his totality. And thank the Common Group We can predispose you to accept the issues raised and facilitate the transactions. For the MPs who come from municipalism, from that proximity and transformative policy that converts political ideology into practical actions to improve people's lives, parliamentary action is always imbued with this experience that allows us to look down and up to amplify the casuistics of the people, barrels and cities to make it a category. The same way that feminism we have after that personal is political, because patriarchy goes through it all, it means that what happens to the municipality is nothing more than an indicator and a warning of injustices, imbalances and many global situations that are to be solved with the laws that are fan of Parliament, or that are to be old to see how impact in the life of the people that we are doing here. Therefore, the papers that we have presented have much to do with this municipalist experience. They are, for example, one of very concrete, which is to widen, including flexibility in the temporality criteria of the terms. Because it has passed us to many municipalities – it passed us when it ruled Badalona –, it is passing to many other towns and cities of the country..., it is passing that they cannot develop plans. Sometimes there's money and, for different calendar situations, it's lost, these money, when it's planned and it's political, and, for a big bureaucratic aspect, it's all in horror. It's happening now in Mediona too, it's happening... it's a necessity, therefore, that change. There must be these plans, but, more than that, these plans must have flexibility. Another of the papers has to do with including the issue of infrahabitation. I always, when I'm talking to... when I wasn't a deputy and I was talking to members of the government, I always invited them to visit the barri de la Salut de Badalona, where there's a level of infrahabitation that few politicians can imagine. Few people think that the country has these barrels with such a difficult level of degradation not only of people's lives, of their level of extreme poverty, but of the conditions of infrahabitation in which thousands of people live. And these municipalities alone can't solve it. There are other points that they want to see, so I would also like to include measures to overcome architectural barriers, accessibility measures, but perhaps what is more political, and what I would also like to highlight in a clearer way, is the petition that some of us in the super-municipalities are really old enough to correct a lack of fairness between the municipalities. And here our look is very critical. And I also invite the company of the commons, who are in the government of the metropolitan area, are also in the government of some supramunicipal areas... The country has very hard imbalances, found– the imbalances between the Besòs and the Maresme, for example, if we talk about the metropolitan area, they are obvious–, and if there is no compromise to straighten it out... Let's go back to the same thing as we say for language: equality is not to treat everyone the same. Equality must be equal, and it means compensating for what is different: compensating the municipalities with lower yields, compensating these barrels in situations of extreme poverty. And, therefore, it is essential that this correction of these imbalances – I am talking about the metropolitan area, which is what I know most, but this has to be extrapolated to the whole country –..., it has to be effective, and now it is not. Diputations, county councils, metropolitan area are not used to correct these imbalances, and they are doing some vicious policies, to say the least: many times they end up being customers, they end up being more dominated by the political color of the municipalities than they do by the needs they have. And, therefore, to thank, therefore, that all these installations have been included in the motion. And to reaffirm the need for these barrel plans to be set in motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.212.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr Jordi Terrades has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.213.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament... I want you to take this initiative to present to us the commons and also the proposal of the law that you have presented in Parliament, my first words I want to use to claim the Catalanist and left-wing governments. Yes, the tripartite governments of President Maragall, President Montilla and Councillor Joaquim Nadal, who made a great law, didn't they? The keg law. That they did and implemented it, with the will of urban transformation, with the will of social improvement of disadvantaged and vulnerable areas: 3,900 performances in 143 barrels of 117 municipalities that have mobilized, between the Government of the Generality and the municipalities, 1,123_million euros. Because, unfortunately, the configuration of cities involves many times processes of sociospatial segregation that exacerbates the social inequalities that exist in our society. There was a very big consensus that that was a good law. But a government's priorities don't end with other governments' priorities, do they? And, when the nationalist/conservative government of President Mas arrived, what he did was put this law in the freezer, which means he won't get nine calls when they still need a lot of barrels from our cities and towns, right? He gave years without calls. Today we have the usual inequalities and new inequalities, we have problems, we are linked to climate change and the need for energy transformation, also in the residential sector, which is one of the important sectors that also emits gas emissions with winter effects, and we need to make a great effort to reduce gas emissions. And it is obvious that many people, many families of our cities, of our towns and of our towns, of our barrels, will not be able to cope with the expenses that this will entail. And, therefore, we urgently need a new law of barrels or to adapt what we have at these times to these objectives, right? Because we have to be able to build up new structures of opportunity to reduce, to cushion these factors of vulnerability of families and people living in our country. And the public powers we have to push policies of urban regeneration and integral intervention into the barrels and those urban areas that require... big cities and small towns, huh? , that I need special attention, thinking – this time yes – in direct action for the direct benefit of the people who live in our cities. In Europe there are different experiences with this manifest willingness to intervene by administrations and where the assemblies have and must have, as they have historically had in our country, a phone book; a phone book to land concrete policies. And who better than the gatherings – the mayors, the mayors – to make these policies land. One of the papers that we've presented and that we've dealt with the proposed youth group went on this line, right? We welcome the European foundations that the European Union has put at the disposal of the twenty-seven Member States. Let us think that Catalonia, that Spain..., must be aligned in these objectives, that are defined in the objectives of sustainable development, but also in these concrete efforts to invest public resources in the rehabilitation and energy efficiency of our cities. But it's not all rehabilitation or accessibility. Quality of life also goes so far as to bet clearly on new housing policies, such as the state's general assumptions that today – this morning – have presented themselves, and that they will address this problem and provide and make available to the public administrations of the country a lot of resources at territorial or territorial level. Also at the level of Catalonia they will suppose a very important injection of resources respect the prevailing assumptions of the year 2021.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.214.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Cristina Casol has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.215.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... To begin with, I will not list the thread for you to clarify from your young man, but I will set a good example for you very understanding. Certainly, the barrel law of the year 2004 will excel. It did so because it intervened in a global way in barrels and towns with many shortcomings, with a serious social problem and with many economic difficulties. And all the programs were developed with a very important tape: breaking with injustice and achieving a high level of social cohesion. Since the last call, the government has continued to make investments in this line: straightening, sorting areas from an integral point of view, because this is a very uncertain practice. An example that I know very well: the barri de la Mariola de Lleida. It was one of the first, a call from 2004. A bar built for the Franco regime in the decade of the sixties. This bar, with the reversal of the barrel board, saw better in the green areas, saw new rambles, saw a CAP – that of the First Maig –, also saw interventions in seven blocks that were not paved, saw two schools in Bressol, saw a ludotheque, saw a cyber library, elevators, better in urban space. He saw change and remove all the architectural barriers from his streets. Training courses were conducted and civic campaigns were conducted. I remember the song of the campaign perfectly: "The sun is coming out for everyone. Mariola is a clear example of a transformation of a bar that now has a new repte. What's the new reality facing Mariola now? So today at Mariola there are many buildings of dwellings that are damaged. Some are not habitable, do not meet the minimum requirements of habitability. There are many buildings that fall. For this reason, today we also have to include, for the better part of the barrels, the rehabilitation of its buildings. They need to be rehabilitated and they need to be reinvigorated, as laid down in European legislation. And we have a good opportunity: they are the European foundations, which are extraordinary and must be ready before June 2026. And, at the same time, we can do this by relating aspects to energy efficiency, which did not include the 2004 barrel law. The Government, therefore, must contribute to this social and cultural change towards the rehabilitation of habitats with environmental criteria of struggle against climate change. We take advantage of the European resources derived from the health crisis, we look for the good management of these European resources, we look for the way bilateral agreements and the topalls imposed on the small letter of the different calls. And finally, three points to the proposed group respecting their inquiry to the Government. The first, the respect of the barris programs – which you 'advantage' yourself – of the Barcelona Consortium. I have looked very well at the more accurate examples, such as the one in the Channels' Barrel and also the urban regeneration of the Southeast Besòs' Barrel. This later is no example of good management, nor much less. It is known for the little management and with little social permission of this. It is true that they have a lot of good resources in Barcelona. For what it seems, they don't know how to invest them; they don't know. The veins of the barrio are dissatisfied. Keep talking about defining a rough, insecure, chronification of faults. And that's not strange, because Barcelona's own city has urban elements that also stop. Deia Le Corbusier, who always spoke of the city, of humanizat urbanism: "Urbanism is a way of thinking carried to public life by action, by its management. I just talked about resources, and I can't do more than talk about Mariola's barri: 11_million euros– 5_millions_i_mig the assembly, 5 and Mig the Generality. It's the value of two hours... that they don't return to Catalonia, and it's a small barrel. Don't be fooled, it's not a matter of flags. What it is necessary to have our own resources, resources to make a good management, to improve the barrels, the cities and the towns of Catalonia. And that's why independence is also a way, a way to improve our barrels. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.216.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Ferran Estruch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.217.0	Very nice late. Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsel, MPs, MPs... Give thanks, first of all, to the Companion of En Comú Pode and MP Parés to present this motion necessary for the debate and also for the acceptance of the papers. Obviously, I'd advance that we'd vote in favour of all the minor points of the first point. I believe that we have seen in the debate of this late, in the different interventions, that we agree on the need to promote urban policies focused on urban regeneration, and especially on the rehabilitation of habitats, from an integral view. We also obviously have a territorial social perspective and a gender perspective. Everyone thinks we share the goal of making barrels, cities and people better, and doing it to the whole country. Catalonia is a diverse country, with very different barrels, towns and cities, with totally different realities. We must agree that it is not the same thing that needs to be done... the need for a town, a city in the metropolitan area or a small rural town in the Pyrenees. It takes into account this premise and the prospects that previously led us to focus on changing the barrel law or the future new urban law. I believe, Members and Members, that on this issue – and on all – we have the obligation to adapt policies to the territory, to the territorial realities, and not the other way around, and always counting on the indispensable involvement of the assemblies, of the local world, and, obviously, of the citizenry, from low to high. A territorial visit to the country and, for that reason, we also share the message of the CUP – in the metropolitan area, where there are also important differences. Certainly, a country that, as we have seen this late, many people do not know and live in parallel realities. Today, too, it is important to talk about urban regeneration policies, housing policies, which are active policies in the face of which we are very concerned, which is depopulation, and, therefore, to fight to repopulate our territory. As Mr Terrades commented, we have as before Law 2/2004, driven by the left-wing and Catalan government, with Pasqual Maragall, with President Maragall in the lead. An important law that I know well as the mayor of Cardona, the people who benefit from this law, and as a technician, because I also worked at the barri de Can Calders and Salutation, in Sant Feliu de Llobregat – therefore, the two futures. An important law that gave very good results, but also that it had certainly shadows, things that did not work: lack of finance, no money arrived, we mortgaged many joints and, obviously, did not attack what we now have to do with it, which is housing – entering into the houses, the habitats, as the Member of Parliament said. As has been said, just say that of the 1,100_million invested in the differences..., in the six calls of the 2004 Barrel Law, eighty-five percent of the resources went to public space and equipment – also very important. It is also clear that the instruments and the purpose of the urban policies of 2004 and today are very different. We need urban policies that fight inequality – against all – with a gender perspective, with social equity, and, today more than ever, to tackle climate change. And, obviously, adapted to post-pandemic reality; everything is the same after covid-19. In short, we believe that it is now time to focus urban policy, urban policies, the new urban policies, on rehabilitating housing, entering into housing, and, obviously, all around it immediately, without oblivion of such a necessary integral vision. And it is in this sense that we wait, as the councillor recently announced to us, and also the secretary of Habitatge, a quick, urgent call that incorporates these elements that I have discussed and this integral view. And at the same time, from Parliament, I think we need to work hard to modify or build or make a new standard framework that allows us to give answers to the needs of the 21st century. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.218.0	Mrs Eva Parera, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.219.0	Thank you very much, President. We have put forward a point in this motion that you have put forward that you were talking about strengthening collaboration and coordination of the Squadron Mosses with other security forces and bodies, and we made special mention of the Barcelona Urban Guard, didn't we? , to improve the response before incisive situations and public disorder. We haven't been accepted for this. I do not understand this allergy to the order they hold, and to the security bodies, above all because they also talk about protecting the women from genera violence by mixing genera policies in urbanism. Well, it seems to us that more police reinforcement on the street is also a good measure to combat this type of rape. I'm sorry. The truth is that when I reconnected this young man – I can understand..., I saw reflected the urban policies of Colau –..., I can imagine my reaction: absolutely, immediately. However, we would vote in favour of something, but basically the totality of the text will be a vote against, because I see a few positive things. We are talking about the need to boost urban policies for social and environmental recovery. What about economic recovery? It's not there or if you wait for it, wait for its text; it doesn't speak of king. Well, I'm sorry to tell you that the main thing is economic recovery. Without economic recovery, little will improve, in the barrels. They're talking about helping us out with better housing. Yeah, sense of doubt, there's a lot of help missing for the better habitation. But it is that, moreover, here they take advantage of, in a rather long paragraph, and there are actions of integral transformation in the public space and around it for the adaptation and mitigation of the climate change. I already translated them: eradicate the private vehicle. We're seeing you in Barcelona. We have the great idea of getting over it in a city where there are two million people every day. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, well... well, it seems to me, with all the affection, a rather lame idea, that will generate enough repulsion in many citizens. After that, they make a follow-up of proposals where I, frankly, see a certain tendency to violate the rights of private property, but in a fairly obvious way. We're talking about mobilizing the empty habitat park, not saying how; we can imagine, seeing all the debate we're feeling on the part of Podemos and common in habitating themes. We are talking about converting the habitats of tourist use so, because yes, in residential use habitats; or so, there are some acquired rights and you'll get away with it, with a one-line movement. We're talking about yield content; well, we've already clearly stated that we're very opposed to yield content, they don't work, they don't serve, there's no competition at the joints to do this, and we'll see what happens to the law that's approved here when the Constitutional Court is manifested. They don't mention politics to promote construction, not one – not one. Pushing action from ideology and sectarianism is not a good way – it is not a good way. That is to say, they are still policies of expropriation, changes of use, against private..., but nothing – nothing – to promote construction. Here you go with counter policies, imposition policies, clear-cut intervention policies of the Administration. This doesn't work – it doesn't work. I, of course, recommend that you do a repositioning. The object they're pursuing is good, but the way they want to get it is the wrong way. Here you have to work to push the barrels and improve the barrels. Work must be done in collaboration with the private enterprise, public-private collaboration must be carried out. And, above all, if we want to improve the issue of housing, which is basic and fundamental, we must stop attacking the private sector, promoters and builders, who – not fool themselves – are the ones who do the housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.220.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mrs María Elisa García Fuster.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.221.0	Good. Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... See, the Generalitat has identified 236 vulnerable areas throughout Catalonia – 236 – that require special attention from the Administration; attention that has been requesting for years, obtaining silence by reply. And yes, we are worried about these neighborhoods, and a lot, but what you have done in this proposal is an ideological pamphlet without any kind of rigor. Since our formation, Mr. Parés, we do not agree with your diagnosis. It is obvious that there is an urban park not only obsolete and degraded, but also a focus of diseases due to lack of health – as has been seen in the pandemic, where the greatest number of infections were located in vulnerable areas –, also a focus of school failure – as many studies indicate – and, in many cases, a focus of crime and drugs. But the problem is not residential segregation, Mr. Parés. The problem is the lack of access to basic public services such as health and education. You always focus on inequality, and you have to focus on poverty. Nor do we agree with the solution. The treatment you propose for this disease is more a list of wishes than a serious and studied proposal. To define the concept of vulnerability in neighbourhoods and municipalities, academics use data of a social dimension – such as poverty, ageing and loneliness and foreign immigration – and residential data – such as housing density and degraded housing. Yes, Mr Parés, we have all seen data on vulnerable areas in Catalonia, and they all mention immigration and crime outbreaks – data that you have omitted. Look, massive and uncontrolled immigration favors the creation of ghettos. This is a fact that, if we add it to the large foreign population living in these areas, not adapted to our culture, and to poverty..., it is not difficult to understand why forty-two percent of Catalan prisons are cooped by foreigners – many of them illegal – and why Catalonia has become one of the most insecure autonomous communities, plagued by parallel societies, many of them Islamists – than non-Muslims, Islamists. There's no blinder than the one who doesn't want to see. Take it off at once and urge the government to solve the problems of Catalans. Of course, everyone today is aware of what the Government of the Generalitat spends money on as Catalans go through hardships: their separatist dreams and their client network. And I remind you, to try to remove the awareness of the Government, that one_of_each_three children in Catalonia is at risk of extreme poverty – most of the children living in these slums. And I remind them of the queues of hunger, to which the organizations, mostly religious, feed. And I remind you of all those people who can't turn on the light while you express to them with fifteen own taxes whose collection is intended to promote division, confrontation and hatred. And in sight is what happened in college a few days ago. In the face of this, we propose that they dedicate Catalan money to Catalans. That they build and remodel vulnerable neighborhoods with a family perspective to create homes, with schools, outpatients, green, clean and safe areas; where children can go home calmly without being intimidated by criminals; where our elders can go shopping without being docked by male workers, with police officers they must let go, leaving aside the rhythm that commands them to follow the UPC. We propose that they encourage rural repopulation and decongest the primary areas to eliminate the overcrowding in these areas, with tax advantages for companies to change locations in order to reduce the distance that these Catalans have to travel every day to their jobs. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, it would be easy if the Generalitat's over-expenditure of EUR 1,000 million were allocated to people's welfare. With this capital could reform the 236 vulnerable neighborhoods of Catalonia. And, before the Madam President takes out the whip she has us used to, the anti-democratic whip, tell her that immigration and crime are associated with certain..., lots of articles. And I give you the example of Ara, which is precisely not our headline newspaper. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.222.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Joan García, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.223.0	Thank you, President. This ending, being the last, always has a certain risk, and being the last of the Pleth, still more. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's true; I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But it's gonna be my last, it's gonna be fine. [[Rialles.]] Today we are talking... we have started talking, this morning, about territorial balance, in fact, the rural world, and now we are talking about territorial balance in the urban world. In fact, I said this morning that there was a certain connection, a basic connection, because in the end we are talking about territories, about the whole territory. And, in fact, this young man who introduced us to the commons speaks, in part, of the territory and of a law– and, in this case, we share it too – which was successful in his time. There are things we have to say, so, that do well, sometimes, these governments... some governments and all governments, actually. We do it in other places, too, and obviously here we have done some things that I think are important... those that have been done, those that have been done since 2004 and that have been stopped – and, in fact, it is important that we take this into account – in 2010. The law of barrels, which we have defended since 2006 in this Parliament and which then, when it stopped making, in 2010, so, we have claimed, we believe that it has to be transformed. And we, in fact, to the programs both 2015 and 2017 as of this 2020 we carried this need or this, say, willing to act in almost three hundred points vulnerable to all Catalonia. And they're vulnerable points that are really problematic, and we have to say it clearly. Before he spoke..., or he talked a lot about making cities or making a municipalist urban policy, obviously, but also, in my case – I have always said this –..., I think that a certain supramunicipal territorial order has to be made, many times, in the accommodation action of the management of the territory, but with a series of perspectives – for example, he spoke of the perspective of genere. We want to talk a lot about the perspective of equality. I think the perspective with which we have to work urban policies is that of equality. Because, precisely..., before it was spoken and it was commented, therefore, the problem that there is in a whole series of barrels, of the spaces that there are in Catalonia... I can speak of this second area or crown of the metropolitan region, I spoke to you before the Valley... I, who soc sabadellenc, could give a few examples, like the barri dels Merinals or some other barrels of my city, that have had and continue to have difficult problems – difficult problems – of management, accessibility..., in fact, all the problems that have been mentioned here, and that could be defined and enumerated from one to the other. But he was speaking precisely as well – before he made me a certain..., as he at least called my attention – of Mariola's barri. In fact, Congresswoman Casol was talking about Mariola's barri. It's lleidatana. I was in the diluns, precisely, in the barri la Mariola with its president, the president of the association of the comings – the deu knower – Mr.Víctor Ruiz. Clearly, it's obvious that there were performances. There were performances in 2004 and later, therefore, to rehabilitate that barre. All the actions you say have been done, but you have to understand – and I think it will have to agree with me – that the situation in that barrio is currently desperate – is desperate. And what have governments done, all governments, from 2010 until today – eleven years – in that barrio, in that obviously vulnerable spot of Lleida? Let's remember that in Lleida province, basically like..., even though, obviously, there are other urban areas, but the most important urban area is Lleida capital, and one of the most problematic is Mariola's barri. What happened? Nothing happened, practically nothing. We believe that there has not been, in Catalonia, the last years of housing policy. We think, in fact, that this proposal of the commons – I was running out of time, because it's obvious that talking about urbanism, so it's complex and... – we can share it in one part, it's obvious – the part, above all, of the policies of the management of the barrel plan – but it's true – and it's already talked, too, and it's said – that there's a whole series of demands that you make about the magical conversion of touristic housing into residential... And also claim many times that, in order to have more habitat – and this we will defend –, be social..., or simply more habitat, is to be built. It has to be built, gentlemen of the commons. And I think that in Barcelona, for example, you, who have always made the banner of housing policy from there, so..., your mayor has already promised 2015 a whole series of..., I think it was eight_thousand us social security housings, and only gave it eight hundred. It must therefore be built in order to maintain social housing. And I'll leave it here. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.224.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.225.0	Well, thank you, President. In the first place, the first one I wanted to do is to give thanks to all the Members who have submitted papers, and to those who have not, also, for the great majority... – who have used, except in some of the interventions, but... I think that what shows is that we agree or that there is a broad enough consensus that Catalonia needs to intervene in the vulnerable barrels and that it needs a new call to do so. We say that you can take advantage of the 2004 law, but if you don't, then you do as you want, but in any case, what you do. Consensus, I believe, too, that nine measures should be brought to a halt. And here what we're proposing are things like resources for habitat rehabilitation. Therefore, escorts, public resources destined for rehabilitation. I don't know which interventionist so evil sees some in this. And, of course, we believe that rehabilitation is important. I mean, bet on rehabilitation... that doesn't mean that, actually, there's no need to build public housing either, but I think it's important that we remain aware of the need to rehabilitate as well. And, yes, to make manifest, in some of the interventions and also in the slogan presented by the People's Party..., this vision so "securityist as to how we face the situation in the barrels. Because, of course, some intervention was due to a fundamentally stigmatizing look, from this situation. And, of course, some should also ask, so, for example, why there is a higher concentration of migrating population in certain vulnerable barrels. It's not because they're criminals, is it? Maybe there's a question of income at the back, too, among others, okay? So, this association that repeatedly makes some between being migrated and being delinquent... I don't think it's going this way. And, of course, the good urban policies in vulnerable barrels that allow people to stay there. And in those barrels where there have been more urban handicaps what has happened is that they are barrels, for example, that they were built with immigrant people coming from the rest of the Spanish State in the sixties and seventies, and, as they did not make good policies, this migrant population left, and then there came immigrant people, for example, so from other parts of the European continent or Africa. Therefore, this population substitution is also a consequence of political ills or lack of urban policies. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.226.0	We shall therefore proceed to the vote of the motion following the question to the Government on urban policies and social and environmental recovery in vulnerable barrels. [[Eva Parera and Escrichs ask to speak.]] Yes, ma'am Parera, to ask...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.227.0	It is for asking for separate votes on points 1 and 6, which can be voted together, and on points 4 and 10, which can also be voted together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.228.0	Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.229.0	Yes, Madam President. To ask for a separate vote from points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6, and the rest we could vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.230.0	Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.231.0	President, also to ask for a separate vote on points... together we could vote on points 7 and 3, and, on the other hand, on point 3a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.232.0	Okay. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Okay. So separate votes from points 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 3a and 10 have been requested. You are – yeah, huh? – everything you asked me to. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Perfect. So let's start voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 69 votes in favour and 64 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved, with 130 votes in favour and 3 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved, with 123 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4 has been approved, with 129 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. This point was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 133 votes in favour. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour and 20 votes against. We now vote together on points 8 and 9. The vote begins. Points 8 and 9 were approved, with 119 votes in favour and 14 against. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10 was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 14 abstentions. We're voting now on the 3a point. The vote begins. Point 3a was approved, with 113 votes in favour, three votes against and 17 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into scholarships and university aid]] [[302-00031/13]] And, now, let's move on to the points of the order of the day, the twenty-and-seven points of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on scholarships and university aid, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. To expose her, Mrs. Judith Toronjo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.233.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members... We arrive at the last seat, a motion that they take, therefore, form after the inquiry that we made last July to Councillor Geis and in which we have already put in full the transfer of university scholarships, this need, but also other relevant aspects, such as the guarantee of university autonomy and, for another group, also the competences of the Generality of Catalonia. In fact, the model of university and catal research, as the movement retreats..., is a model of success, a model that, like the country, we must preserve; a model that we have built on institutional, political consensus. And, therefore, we must continue to look forward, to the future, to the knowledge society. As also reflected in his own motion, from Juntes to Catalunya we are skeptical about what makes us draft laws that push from the Spanish State, so that we already advance that we will act with total firmness in defense of the generalities. And in this, again, comrades, I'm telling you that they're purpose and dialogue, as we've always been. And we would be as much for what he does to the organic law of the university system as for what he does to the law of university coexistence, despite the fact that we see positively that he is pulling forward a draft law that once replaced the rules of academic discipline of the French rule of 1954. And we will, therefore, for the defense of the generality's competences, for university autonomy and – no less important – for the functional rights of young students. So, in the resolution points of the young man, we make complaints that we consider to be fair, they are necessary, and that, unfortunately, they are all a classic. So much good we should not talk about today in the plethora of this roundabout, the transfer of airport management or the transfer of scholarships, which affects and impacts 290,000 students, which means 47,2_per_cent of young people who access the university by means of these aids. A classic, as I used to say. And it is that these scholarships that we claim, this transfer, is effective since the year 2001, with the first sentence of the Constitutional Court, but also refer to other sentences or the proper Statute of autonomy. Therefore, let us claim that the Spanish Government is effective. Because, in addition, we want the funds that are transferred to take into account the difference in the cost of living of Catalonia in relation to other territories of the State, which have a much lower cost, as we all know Members and Deputies, and also taking into account the fact that Catalonia has on the rest of the state university population. It is precisely because of these repeated failures by the State in this area that the Generality has already incurred the cost of these scholarships, which is located at 18_million euros– yes, 18_million euros–, according to the published data for AGAUR. Therefore, those who all day talk to us about equality are sure that today they will agree and give support to this young man presented. Because what we approve today... is about a matter of country, and they ask the deputy unit of action; to give, therefore, compliment to the agreement of the Spanish Government. And so, too, the political homolegs represented here in Parliament, which are benefiting young Catalan and Catalan students. And lastly – and not least – we know that the Government of the Government of Catalonia is compromised with the guarantee of freedom of expression, with the guarantee of our institutions and, obviously, also of universities. Therefore, the Government has continued to defend this freedom before those who want grey universities, silent universities, universities afraid of being able to express themselves freely. So today I take the opportunity to regret the instrumentalization of some political parties in universities, as we have seen in the past few hours. Because universities, despite some weights, will continue to feel a space of freedom, a space of opinion, a space of knowledge to form critical citizens. And, in this sense, she will advise, she will find us, from Juntes per Catalunya, giving support, obviously, in these shortcomings, these hardships, but also for the redefinition of finance, to establish a complete system of equity to university access and that I did not leave absolutely no young place. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.234.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Now the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomera, the deputy Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.235.0	Thank you very much, President. Members, councillor, thank you very much for being there. I'm not running away from study. Of all the young people, as we share most of the points, I will only comment on those who refer to the Government of the State and you have commented on your intervention. The first, the one to see with the transfer of university scholarships to the Generalitat de Catalunya. There is a feeling, as you quite rightly said, of the Constitutional Court; also..., one that we win, as in the institution, that recognizes some competence, that is complex. There is the compromise not only of this parliamentary group, but of the Ministry of Universities, to donate support to it. It is a task that does not only compromise the Ministry of Universities: that compromises the Ministry of Public Administration, the Ministry of History, and that therefore requires a coordinated work, but it will be completed and complimented. And we understand that this compliment cannot be attached to the mechanisms of dialogue that exist between the Government and the Government of Catalonia. In any case, what needs to be met is the criteria for transferring grants. And in this we share the feeling of the young lady. Studying is a subjective right, the cost of studying can vary between territories. And, therefore, the amount to be transferred in recognition to this right must be different in order to guarantee a right that is the same for the whole of the city. And it doesn't cost the same to study in Barcelona that other cities in the country, and, therefore, the amount cannot be the same. And we are totally in agreement with that, and we are totally in agreement with Parliament until the Ministry of Universities. The second question is what it has to do with the law of university cohabitation. Now we are in the regime for the Academic Discipline Regulation of 1954, which is basically a rule designed to guarantee public order to the universities, which have always been conflicting, and which recognizes as a lack of difficult questions such as the manifestation against the Catholic religious convictions of the country, expressions against the institutions of the State, etc. And so it's a rule that's out of our legal order and out of dubious constitutionality, we'd say, because it recognizes things that are no longer recognizable as such in our legal order. And, therefore, what we do is repeal it, and here's a discussion. I know that there are groups that say: "No, you can repeal it and not make a law of coexistence. And in reality we can't do it, we can't generate a legal void. And, therefore, if we repeal the rule, we need to make a law of coexistence, because, if not, we would find ourselves with things like that you can give conflicts to universities that are not regulated and that you would have as reference to the Penal Code. And copy an exam, what's that supposed to mean? Would it be forgery of public document? It can't be. And, therefore, we also have to regulate these things, and we cannot generate a legal void; the same way that when we say that we repeal labour reform, it does not mean that we repeal the entire labour market of the State, but that we repeal certain effects that existed with labour reform and that we generate a _marc of new labour relations. And this goes on in many questions, and we want to put it in value. First of all, it is not a regulation to guarantee public order, and therefore the sanctioning regime is not in the center of the law. What's at the center of the law is the introduction of mediation mechanisms into how conflicts in a university are resolved. And, therefore, in this I think we are already very much ahead of time to hear how conflict resolution should work in any public institution, but especially, if you want, in educational and educational institutions, that you should have conflict resolution in the centre. And a second question that is sometimes posed on the table: it does not have rights related to the right of protest and mobilization. It doesn't. The third article, which relates to standards of coexistence, clearly states that there must be full respect for democratic values, fundamental rights and public freedoms. And the rules that universities will make to guarantee the standards of coexistence and respect for the rights of the people, such as the right of mobilization and protest – and the law itself – will have to be developed with the participation of all sectors of the university community, as well as students. And, therefore, what we will have will be more secure rules, which will tend not only to respect the fundamental rights in the case of the rules, but will tend to mediate as the central tool of conflict resolution and possible conflicts that may exist at the university. And, therefore, we understand that it is a positive rule, that it does not only violate the fundamental rights – and that is why we will not vote in favour of this point – but strengthen them and give them a guarantee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.236.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word, now, M.P. Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.237.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, we're at the last point, let's hope we don't take this the wrong way. [[Rialles.]] Well, we'll vote for the young lady. Obviously... completely agree, and it's a need that cream, isn't it? , concrete the transfer of the fund and the competence of the scholarships, and for a thousand reasons. And we have spoken many times: for a question of skills, for a question of efficiency, for a question of sovereignty and for a question that, in the end, is the most important, and that is what must be important to us all, in order to make life easier for the people, the students, who are under pressure. And it is not understood that today we do not yet have a single window from which to request, manage, rebre, no? , the conjunct of fellowships. We trust fully in the work that is being done with the Research and University Consulting, with the Presidency Consulting, in the framework of bilateral commissions, and that can be completed on a clear date, because it is how the academic world, the course, works in the end, right? And, therefore, the course that you see this must already be completely out of the way. And we can't allow ourselves to follow it by managing the State, because we come from a history: we know that any decision of the State is always taken against Catalonia; we know that with the distribution of the scholarships there has been a flagrant and historical inequality, that there have been twenty-three_percent of the students of the joint of the State we have less than the division_per_cent of the scholarships, and, moreover, with some moments of incompetence and mismanagement manifest, as we experienced in 2017, with delays in the payment of the scholarships to more than 158,000 families for errors close to the State, that we had to hope that it was the Generality that solved these errors and returned to writing the convention of collaboration. All of this would have been a relief if we had managed it directly. One last time I'd like to comment. This transfer is based on the ability we have, from the government and from the parties that support the government, from the incidence and force them there, because we already know that in the end the State doesn't do it, but it's forced to do it, right? ; that only those who boast of federalists would keep it centralized, as they have maintained for so many years; that those who boast of constitutionalists would continue to disobey the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court, which up to three times has stated that the management of the scholarships is to be passed to the Generality. That's what he does to the burrows, but the next thing you know, he treats the young man, doesn't he? , even from these precedents..., we have to say that we live with concern the processing of these two state laws, of the LOSU and of the law of coexistence – which we call, in fact, "the university law bites. The LOSU... There has been a lot of talk, and we are convinced that everyone is fully aware that he will have to change as a medium if he wants to get back to the media, because it's a law in a Madrid office that doesn't reflect the world he wants to regularize. And the law of coexistence, which, as you know, because yesterday it was made public, the deputy of the young republic, Marta Rosique, presented it to the totality. And, really, it still seems unheard of to us that it is a minister of Podemos who, before the historical opportunity to end the rule of Francoist academic discipline, impulses, without dialogue with the university community, with Catalan students, a norm that perpetuates, therefore, violations in the right of association and manifestation. And yes, it does, and we will be able to see it in the parliamentary debate that will take place in Congress. Therefore, we support the minimum of the young man, but we believe that this law should start again from scratch, do it well and with democratic consensus, which is there. Criticism to the State, which, moreover, we do with the full conviction that the agenda we have here is capable of setting it up and resolving it. We have an ILP of university priests who will shield the girls with the assumptions – and now with the equipping of rank and master prices – and we also have a whole series of setbacks to ensure that there will be broad consensus here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.238.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.239.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that, paradoxically, I am presented with an opportunity to talk this afternoon about what happened yesterday at the Autonomous University of Barcelona without fear that the President of Parliament can cut me off and call me to focus on what the motion says. Because, in fact, the motion, in one of its points, speaks of defending freedom of expression in universities, and therefore the assimilation is clear, so I think I will be able to speak calmly for four minutes. Good. Today we have seen something grotesque in this Parliament. We have seen something grotesque that generates me hilarity, but, certainly, deep down it is very serious. To hear a member of the CUP, Mrs Reguant, with all due respect, say: « Antifascists always, and always in defense of those who yesterday expelled the fascists from the Autonomous... The fascists of the Autonomous are a group of young students of the association S'Ha Afinet! , who are, in fact, charming boys. Any one of you would talk to them and I am convinced that it would look like that, the truth; what happens is that you have not even the slightest idea of who the people who make up this association are. They are boys who study; they are boys who defend a certain vision of the university life of Catalonia, Spain. They are indeed supporters of the unity of Spain; yes, they are supporters of the continuity of Catalonia within Spain. But, of course, Mrs Reguant, calling the fascists is ridiculous, pathetic and grotesque. You are lucky, like all of us, or like most of us – perhaps Mr Maragall or someone else who may not be around here – that you have not lived under the Franco regime or lived under a fascist regime or lived under a Nazi regime, of course. And you banalize violence, banalize fascism, when you call yourself, you call yourself antifascist. But what is that? Really, what did they think? It is absolutely ridiculous that you think you will expel the young people of S'Ha Afinet from college! is to expel the fascists [[some applause]] , or that expelling deputies of Citizens or of VOX or of the People's Party is expelling fascists. It is a regrettable, simply regrettable thing. It's grotesque, it's pathetic. Anyway, you keep insisting on it. Yesterday, when I was leaving the Autonomous University... my colleague Carlos Carrizosa asked Julia Calvet, the president of S'Ha Afinet! ... He said to him, "Julia, are we leaving? And my heart was shrunk when Julia said: "No, I am staying. She stayed at her university. He stayed at his university when there were young people, his colleagues, who insulted her, who called her "fascist and other things much worse than I know if the feminists we have around here would seem reasonable, the things I heard calling Mrs.Júlia Calvet and her colleagues, Jordi Salvador, Yeray Mellado, other members of S'Ha Afinet! ; to all the young people of S'Ha Afinat! , who had to endure yesterday totalitarianism, totalitarianism that you, gentlemen of the CUP and who applaud you in Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra..., in Podemos I think no one has applauded you, but I have seen people from Junts per Catalunya, in fact, applauding Mrs. Reguant. Totalitarianism is that, it's you; totalitarianism is you. Therefore, I do not know whether you are fascists or not – I think the term is trivialized, I think it tends to use the term too much – but of course I am clear that you are manual totalitarians. I insist, you go to Autonomous. Today the members of his related union, the union..., the so-called..., the self-named Union of Students of the Catalan Countries, have made a capital so happy – today – without any problem. No one's told you anything. No one has expelled them, no one has insulted them, no one has called them fascists. No one has prevented their freedom of expression, they have allowed them to speak in peace. This is what the rest of the university community has done with their union, with the so-called Union of Students of the Catalan Countries. What his union does is to prevent others from expressing themselves, is to restrict the freedom of expression of other students, insult their peers and create a climate of terror in the university. Exactly the same as their Arran youths do when the sieges of Citizens, the People's Party, VOX, even the Socialist Party burst. That's what their youths do. So, really, in Catalonia there has been a direct conceptual investment or a moral investment. Indeed, the image of a member of the CUP saying: "We, always antifascists, outside the fascists is the quintessence, the true effigies, the vivid image, of the moral investment that has occurred in Catalonia. It's literally aberrant. I think this is something that would be interesting if a lot of people in Catalonia saw it; that they counter their intervention today and see what happened yesterday in the Autonomous Region, what happens today, with what normality they manifest and make a tent the students of the Union of Students of the Catalan Countries. And the worst of all is that the governing council or the governing team of the Autonomous University of Barcelona and its rector come, above, to say that yesterday were moments of tension, and to criticize – as Members have also criticized, because, obviously, everything goes in direct correlation – that some parties are instrumentalizing what happened yesterday. It's a shame. It is typical of an anti-democratic and totalitarian society, of unique thought, of an absolutely anti-democratic regime. That's what happened yesterday in the Autonomous. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.240.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.241.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs... the councilwoman isn't with us yet, but I know she was here. Good afternoon, all of you. We already have the advance we are asking for separate vote from these points of the motion; in fact, I have already commented on it with the proposed group of the motion. It seems to us that this young man is a good show of intentions, well intended, a small but existing show of intentions, to make a political proposal, but that, for our purposes, he is completely wrong. And, not to be mistaken, I'm going to explain point by point what we're thinking exactly. The first point says: "Requiring the Government of the State to transfer funds from university scholarships on condition that they take account of the population of Catalonia to Spain and the difference in the cost of living of Catalonia in relation to other territories. This fact was tried by Minister Gabilondo in the second government of Zapatero. Therefore, it is an option in which we show ourselves in favor. It's true that it was a rather difficult mandate, there were early elections and it was not finally approved. But we will vote in favour. We agree on this point. What happens... I would like to thank, in any case, Juntes for Catalonia for the sincerity and honesty with which they have written this text, because I say it, and I quote literally: "...in compliment of the Judgment of the Constitutional Court 188/2001. And it's true. We always defend the compliment of the judgments of the Constitutional Court, even though we do not like or share what they say [[some applause]] - No, no, no, Not only when we care, yes, and when we're not okay, no; we always defend it. The second point says: "Require the Government of the State to transpose the funding of the competence recognised in Article 158 of the State in the field of research, development and innovation. People who are not graduates right now are to be consulted in Article 158 of the Statute. And that's what you say: "It's up to the Generality, in terms of scientific and technical research, to have exclusive competence in relation to the research centres and structures and the projects that this finance. So, to spend money, of what? What are we talking about, exactly, if they're competitions that the government of the generality already has? They are the centers of the Government of the Generality and the research that they centralize. We think that the best way to defend the university system – and now I will say an obvious one – is to provide it with the resources necessary for research and for the system. It's the best possible way. To give an example: the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia in 2010 allocated 1,000_million euros to the university system; it is currently spending just over 840_million euros, two years later. I'll go to the third and the fourth. He says many things: defending the university model, guaranteeing university autonomy, a vehicle for the defence of the fundamental rights, competitions of the Generality... He says many things and we can show our agreement. Okay, yeah, that sounds pretty good to us. But what we can't help but say is criticizing the inconsistency of some groups that want to say in a youth some questions that are later not related to the government actions that they carry out. I'm not talking to you about the details we're still keeping. That's what I'm telling you, isn't it? : 840_millions, when you were 1,000_millions years ago. I'm not talking to her about this. I am talking about the fact that last week the PSC precisely presented a motion for a resolution that was called for an immediate increase of EUR 140_million for universities and EUR 40_million for research. In addition – and the Deputy of Junts said before – in line with the national pact for the society of knowledge, which you approved yourself last year. Do you know what they voted on this proposal? They voted against it last week. Point number 5 and point number 6. Very quick. It speaks of defending the Catalan search model and guaranteeing the maintenance of its autonomy, and that state regulations do not prevent the actions of better financing. Home, of course... state law prevents normative actions? That's his opinion, it's not our opinion, or we're pretty clear it's not that, isn't it? But anyway, I'm not talking to you about this. Now the very thing we have before us is to try to give the premise – and I'm going back to insist on it – the same way that there was 2010: with 140_million more or, like at least, as the starting point, with 1,000_million euros, which is what there was at the time. And I finish with point 5: "Continue defending the freedom of expression to universities as the key element of student education. There's been a little talk here during today's day. It is clear that we agree and it is clear that we will vote in favour of this point, as it cannot be otherwise for us. The question is, and you, the rest of the groups, what are you going to do? Will everyone vote for this point? We have listened to many statements in this regard. The Socialist Group always condemns all the attacks, and we condemn the attacks that happened yesterday at the Civic Square of the Autonomous University the whole thing is over! We condemn all attacks. Do the rest of the groups do it? Will everyone vote in favour of this guarantee to defend freedom of speech? Since the PSC we have defended and always think of defending freedom of expression for everyone who likes us or not what they say, whenever it is in compliment of human rights. When a person is called, only because he thinks differently from you, what is being done is invisible to the truth. [[applause]] What we're doing is trivializing a question with which we play democracy, freedoms and rights. Therefore, Members and Members, please, let's work together, and let's not take advantage of the fact that we are politically instrumental that, precisely, we do not need more space than there is. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.242.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the words of Deputy Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.243.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Analyzing this motion by Junts per Catalunya on scholarships and university grants, the myth of Sisyphus, king of Ephira, has come to my mind. Sisifo, in case you don't remember, was as cunning as he was greedy and manipulative. Far from him, Hades condemned him to the underworld, but there he deceived even Tanatos and was able to return to his land. At the end of his days, again in the underworld, he fooled Hades, Hades himself, on this occasion, and returned to his kingdom with his wife. Mrs Toronjo, you say that the current model of Catalan university is fabulous, but that it is threatened because the government does not hand over the competences of university scholarships to the Generalitat. The reality is another: the successive governments of the Generalitat have long degraded the, trying to turn it into a gross instrument of imposition of one thought. And in sight it is, because this is how the things that have happened happen, so this afternoon, like that Members of Parliament with studies do not know that Juan Boscán wrote in Spanish his works and was born in 1487, or Joan Güell i Ferrer himself, who did the same in the eighteenth century. Or Pompeu Fabra himself, who spoke in castle to his home with his own. VOX defends freedom of expression as a guarantee of the Holy Spirit..., of the critical spirit... [[Rialles.]] Well, at least we'll end up in a little more conciliatory this session... [[Greetings.]] Thank you very much. I say it again: VOX defends freedom of expression with a guarantee of the critical spirit, tolerance and respect for people, which is the essence, in short, of the university. What about you, Mrs. Toronjo? Not in sight. If you truly believe in respect for people, why did you not publicly condemn the incitement to hatred of the vice-ex..., rather, vice-rector of the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya, Núria Pla, on 11 September, when he said: « Wins of fire, of burning containers and of collapsed airports? It is not enough that he resigned thanks to VOX's denunciation to the media; the entire university community needs, deserves an apology from Consteller Geis – who was here, but is not here now. And what about the episode of intolerance to which we have already referred some other groups, the infamous fascist attack led by a group of students against the information tent of S'Ha Afinet! yesterday at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, in the Civic Square – what contradiction – for the mere fact of not being separatist? Does it seem to you as an exercise of freedom of expression the semi-annual supervisory control that the Government of the Generalitat is going to impose on the language used in the university? And in case there is any doubt about your animating the freedom of expression, I remind you that you yourself, in the Commission of Universities, last July 13th voted against – I repeat, against – to ensure the ideological and political neutrality of Catalan universities, calling on the Rectors, as the highest academic authority, to comply with and enforce the principle of impartiality and ideological neutrality. By the way, it is a total hypocrisy that Junts per Catalunya resorts to the Constitutional Court to demand the transfer of university scholarships to the Generalitat when, as active and passive, they disallow, disobey, ridicule any court order or judgment against their party interests. One example is the disregard for the judgment of the High Court of Justice of 23 June, which condemns the University of Barcelona for violating ideological neutrality, freedom of expression and the right to education. Well, look, as far as I'm concerned... I'll tell you what the end of Sisyphus' myth is. By the way, Zeus – I don't know if they knew it – condemned Sisyphus to climb a heavy rock to the top of a mountain, which, by divine art, fell immediately below so that the poor Sisyphus would rise again and again, eternally. Wasteful talent. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.244.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr Dani Cornellà has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.245.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... the advances we have made in this young man have decided to abstain. And we will do so because all of the points presented to this young man are, in our view, written from a position of defense and submission, in the event of an incident or confrontation with the State. And we can see it, for example, so, right now, with the votes that the Socialist Party will have. We are talking about requiring the Government of the State to transfer funds or finance, to defend the Catalan university model because it is not affected by the Spanish LOSU, to defend the fundamental rights before the approval of the new law of Spanish university coexistence, to continue defending the freedom of expression to the universities, to defend the Catalan research model with the objective that the Spanish state legislation does not prevent actions. That is to say, we are debating a joint motion for Catalonia that only serves to ask for the transfers of funds and funding, to manage wreaths or to age because the different Spanish regulations do not affect even more negatively the research and the Catalan universities. And for us this is tremendously disappointing. Together with Esquerra, you met and concluded an agreement with the bilateral State - Government of the Generality referring, for example, to scholarships; you have already agreed that the transfer will take place, after more than 20 years than it should have done. We don't understand, so why are we taking him to the police station again now, when this bilateral table that they've been doing has been coming together for quite a while. In fact, Geis herself declared that in this bilateral commission "there was neither any content nor lack of concreteness, and that, in fact, she hopes that the State will correct the fiscal deficit suffered by Catalonia, that it has the disset_percent of the student population and only the two_percent of the scholarships– well-true, and many years ago. If the counselor herself sees that the bilateral table doesn't carry much, do they really think this young man will be more effective? And do they really think we're going to solve the tax deficit? We will abstain, because this young man is a drinker in the sun, and, as always, on the other side of the toast, so there is no one. But we're also here, in Parliament itself, and in research and university. To remember that 2019, at the general policy debate, was to approve a proposal for a resolution of the CUP with the votes of the Government, among others, where it was already said that it was urgent to recover the funding of the universities at the level of the year 2010, and that it had to be done from 2020 and until 2022 to increase it, and that still has not happened. It was also approved in 2019 to reduce taxes and university fees for the course 2020 – the thirty_per_cent – and it happened, but it was also a year later and after many years of having pushed the fees. Therefore, we can go demanding or aging because the State..., that the State does this, that the State does that, complex, but here we are not completing what we approve of in our own Parliament. And now I'm going straight to the point of the young man... we'll talk about a few. For example, point 3, which we do not understand how it translates into our reality: "Defend the Catalan university model and the guarantee of university autonomy with the objective that the future US respects the diversity and singularity of the Catalan model. Well, how do we guarantee that? The problem is not that it respects the diversity and singularity of the Catalan model, the problem is the LOSU's own. We do not want the Spanish laws to respect us, we want to improve our laws to make, of the laws, laws of the country. Point 4: "Vellar for the defense of the fundamental rights of students of Catalan universities, etc., "before the approval of the new law of university coexistence promoted by the Government of the State. Well, we'll be back to exactly the same as at the previous point or point number 6: we're always hanging from their laws so they don't vaginate us any more. Or at point 2, we're claiming to fill out the status they've been retrieving from us. I'm sorry, but this isn't the position we've been hoping for from you. And we are surprised that the only unilaterality that breathes into this young man is that of the Spanish State, which, as always, incompletes everything that he can and attacks the little autonomy that we have with his girls in measure. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] For all this, Members, we need to make public research and universities an engine of country that brings us to full sovereignty. And here they will find us. And it's over! , the "great good people of Has Finished! ..., the president – who made Ciutadans's spokesman –, Júlia Calvet, Ms. Júlia Calvet, a great young woman, normal, university student, who on her Twitter there is pinjat: « Madrid will be the tomb of communism, among other pearls, or that treats the young student, revolutionary and independenceist as street terrorists. This is the "great normal person, who can go there, talk there and discuss it. I'll tell you what you're always saying: a new little boy of yours, of the unionist parties...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.246.0	Mr. Cornellà, you have to go through with this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.247.0	...that he's being transferred to college. You've always been anti-fitting, and always with the SEPC. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.248.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.249.0	Thank you very much, President. You see, today you are proposing to us a young man who demands, from the outset, more skills for the councillor, for a councillor who tells radicals and you have made to all those who do not think like her. And I'm not saying, said the councilwoman, that today, in a statement, she gave support to the UAB's statement, an infamous statement that what she should be doing is immediate resignation – that of the councilwoman as well. There is no support for this communication. Is she here to guarantee university excellence? Come on, we're pretty caught up, if that's it. Today, from this hemisphere, Ishi has told a group of young people who were defending the Constitution and who were defending their own ideas. So not sirs; the fascism is what happened to the UAB yesterday. So it's pheasism: students taking in other students because they don't think like them, because they don't have the only thought they want to impose on universities. They talk a lot about freedom. They don't fill their mouths here for freedom, but for you freedom is only for those who think like you; freedom for those who think different doesn't exist. I don't know if you are aware of the climate of hatred and violence that has been generated in Catalonia and that has been generated in universities. Have you ever stood up to these students they were serving today? What do they have to go back to college today, and do they have to go back to college to share class with students who assign them, with their associates who assign them, who assign them to them? With a rector who assigns them, a rector who has to go out and defend them and who tells them that they don't have the capacity or the intellectual level to get their own ideas, that they're being teledirected for political parties? Are we sick or what's wrong with us? Really, what's going on with us? This is an authentic barbarity. Universities are places to compare ideas. They're places to encourage and work on critical experience, not to drive out ideas we don't share. And through the rape. Or isn't yesterday's rape? Yesterday's a rape. Is the Catalan university model really about getting the moves going on at our universities? Is this the model of Catalan university excellence we want? I'll tell them no. No, I don't want it, this model. It's just... it's just that I really don't know... the irresponsibility that we're showing at the time of incentivizing the following behaviors and at the time of defending the following behaviors, really. I only wish, indeed, that one day I would awaken my consciences, because then you will be aware of the moral evil and moral damage that you are causing in Catalonia and that you are causing to a generation that you see later, that you are having attitudes that should not be close to young children of different years, young people of different years. Well, I... it's just... I'm really sad today, really. And I'm very worried. And I've been very worried for a long time, and I don't see a solution to that. And I don't see a solution because we hear here a few speeches that, frankly – frankly... Or, if anyone gets up today to listen to what we've been discussing here... Here we came to say "you did it to some kids who build a tent in defense of the Constitution?" Please – please. They make themselves 'hommirate, indeed. They're making them look like they're homing. We will vote against this young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.250.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Judith Toronjo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.251.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, because there have been interventions that, in fact..., is not the question of the subject we are dealing with, it seems that some companies have not read the motion we had in front. But I would like to clarify, first of all, that if we demand the transfer of scholarships, it is not a whim. It's because we think we can manage and we need to manage a better student service – we have the ability to do it, to modernize the Administration, to streamline these areas. And, obviously, also – a further argument – because we want to be independent, because we want to establish a new Catalan republic to manage our own resources, along with what we unfortunately have today, which is the fiscal deficit and the lack of investments that we see in the past month. Only a few points that I consider to be important and that affect this motion in its entirety. I repeat, as I said in the first intervention, that we have not only claimed this competence from Juntes, but that we have done so far throughout the House, these three days, that we have not claimed many more, and where we have found consensus with the rest of the parties. I do not know what problem there is, therefore, that for this competence we do not all go to one and claim it in such an important environment that affects the young people of our country. For another band, it also highlights the last point of the young man, who talks about research. It's important – and we have an urgent parliamentary process on the law of science – that there is as much consensus as possible so that we can define a suitable model for our country's research. And, finally, of the total number of papers that have been submitted... give thanks to the Republican leftist company, which has accepted the motion, and we believe that it points out quite rightly to paragraph 4. The others have been rejected, but it is true that we have tried to deal with the Common Parliamentary Group. Unfortunately, we couldn't reach an agreement, but we appreciate your support. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.252.0	Thank you very much. Are there any separate voting petitions for any point? [[Pause.]] Yes, ma'am Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.253.0	Yes, President. Please, separate vote from point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.254.0	Four, perfect. Any more petitions? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Romero?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.255.0	Points 2 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.256.0	2 and 6, which we could vote together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. [[Pause.]] Mr. Garriga?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.257.0	Yes, Madam President. We ask for a separate vote from point 5, and the rest can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.258.0	From the point...? I'm sorry, I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.259.0	Five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.260.0	Five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.261.0	Five. And the rest of it, we could vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-07-1403.262.0	Perfect. Isn't there more different voting petitions? [[Pause.]] So let's start with the vote on points 2 and 6. The vote begins. Points 2 and 6 were approved, with 72 votes in favour, 52 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved, with 64 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 49 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved, with 104 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 20 abstentions. And we're voting the rest of the vote now. The vote begins. The motion was adopted, with 104 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 9 abstentions. The session's up.
