ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.1.0	Good morning. Please, if you take your seats, we'll start this session. This 19th day of sale begins the tretzenth edition of the Grand Recapte d'Aliments, which will be extended until November 27th. I would like to inform you that Parliament has adhered to this campaign, that every year it aims to collect food and donations so as to supply the support network that are the food banks of the country, and that today they accompany us to the Parliament's lot of authorities. They see the exhibitor, who will be present from today and while the campaign lasts, at the entrance of Parliament. Before the beginning of this session, we had the opportunity to meet in audience with the representation of the Food Bank in Catalonia and have given us demolishing data. The number of recipients has increased from 195,000 in 2020 to 250,000 in today's population, which represents an increase of thirty_per_cent. And, therefore, since the outbreak of the cove, as a result of its effects, they have found themselves with a very harsh reality: that many people who before the pandemic were not contributors, after the pandemic, are users. That's why it's so important that we support this great recipe, because a society can only move forward when it leaves no one behind. Members and members of the Government, as representatives of the citizenry, do not only have the duty of copying and of actively promoting and participating in solidary initiatives, as is this, but we also have the duty and obligation to act to find solutions to these problems so that, as the motto of the Food Bank, one day you will campaign like the Great Recapture no longer need. So anyway, for what it does to the situation of the covid, these last few days we are seeing a resumé in the indicators of the covid-19. In Catalonia there are already more than 1,016,000 accumulated cases and the risk of rebound at this time has increased; it is a fact that has doubled in the past weeks. Naturally, we ask not to lower the guard, take all possible precautions and follow the sanitary recommendations. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I also inform you that, as a compliment to what is established by the Movement 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the gathering operations of migrants, according to the data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of 2021 there are a total of 1,567 victims dead or missing in the Mediterranean. The list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary, which are kept in the plenary file and, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, will be replaced this morning as the first point of this plenary session. [[Ask the Government about mobility policies]] [[310-00128/13]] So let us move on to questions to the Government to answer orally in the plenary on mobility policies. The question is posed by Mr Marc Parés of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.2.0	Good morning. Vice President Puigneró, will convince me that mobility policies are a key piece in the fight against climate change. We believe that we need to move to a country where we are least embezzled and where public transport mobility is guaranteed as a right for everyone. Even so, this is not what we see in these assumptions: more real reversal on rail lanes than on rail and no novelty in the planning of railway infrastructure. It's a presupposition with more resources, yes, but to do more than the same. Counselor, do you really think we can decarbonize the country by putting more cars on the reels, as they foresee these assumptions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.3.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.4.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning, deputies and deputies. Look, there's a Catalan saying that you see before a lie that a guy and I think you haven't seen or looked at the assumptions. Because I introduced them... this week I introduced them to the committee and I explained to her that you only take into account part of what you're interested in. It has not counted all the transfer that we make to the Authority of the Transport Metropolity, does not also contemplate the whole policy in the field of the bicycle, does not contemplate many of the investments that we make for a decarbonized mobility. In its conjunction, of the total budget of the Department of Digital Policies and Territories, fifty-six_per_cent is destined for decarbonization policies, many of them in the area, obviously, of trains, with a very important and well-recorded reversal. And maybe you should look at your own home that you do from then on we govern, from the assembly or from Madrid, to decarbonize the mobility of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.5.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.6.0	Look, counselor, the data is the one that was made easier for us by the counselor. He turned in his presentation: expenses on rollers, expenses on railways. But in any case, making assumptions is prioritizing and we don't understand that in expanding assumptions like these there is no bet decided to make Catalonia really a country of trains. And you're always referring to the State. So look, what I see in the state government is a roll-up plan in which for the 20-25 period I foresee 4,500_million euros of inversion, of which more than 1,800 have already been bid on today and of which more than 500 are in smaller investments, such as the doubling of R3 or better to the metropolitan network. I say this because you also always refer to the percentages of execution of the State, but in these assumptions it is shown that you are not tortoise with the execution of the Tarragona Camp tram train and that you are more than eight years late with T-Mobility. In any case, with the resources that your assumptions allocate to the expansion of the capacity of reelers, we will deploy from now on – and not two years from now – the combination of the four lines of Lleida and not just the Lleida-Manresa tram. With the money that you spend projecting variants like the Presses, we would project projects like the Costa Brava tram or the Bages tram train. We ask them to be an active and committed government with a new model of mobility, and this means: to generate alliances with the Valencia Country for the Mediterranean Corridor, to recover the trains before Tortosa to Barcelona, to redefin and to make the transport of passengers by bus, where there is no train and to negotiate the transfer of 200_million euros from the tariff deficit of Rodales to increase frequencies and improve times. With all this they can count on us. What we're planting is a national pact of mobility to make a real transformation of our home mobility possible. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.7.0	To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.8.0	Thank you, Congressman. Miri, that famous campaign or phrase by President Montilla has come to my mind now: "Facts and do not speak. I think you're the ones with very good words and few facts, and so you prove it, as we see it... You know today who..., the subway of what the citizens of Barcelona and the metropolitan area enjoy knows who pays it and who has invested and who invests in this infrastructure? The Generalitat de Catalunya. Do you know who pays for the trains? The Generalitat de Catalunya. Therefore, let's learn less about trains and apply them to the government. Because, in the last five years... – because you were talking to me about promises, forecasts, etc.; we'll see if this is all over –, a five-year-old who in the last five years had..., or so, about every five-year-old that the State has assumed in these last five years has only executed one. We're talking about Catalonia's loss of 3,000_million euros in the last five years in investment in rolling stock in Catalonia. So... and you're not correcting this. In this sense, they gather enough to the government of the People's Party, but worse because, look [[remorse of the voice]] , they at least make lines of AVE. You don't even do that. Therefore, in this sense, your bet for the country of the trains of moment I must say that it is non-existent. We would like you to join the Generality, which we are actually making major investments in railway investments. I want to remind you: line 9, line 8, R-Airport... We will see this in this legislature as real investments in the country of the trains that you are talking about. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.9.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the dam of international activity. [[Ask the Government about the dam of international activity]] [[310-00132/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Rius, Member of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.10.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolguada counsel, to the appearance he made to explain the main lines of the premise of his department it became clear again that there were parties that would want Catalonia not to do external action, that you did not see nor do you own action outside the Catalan borders. It is no surprise that the same people who wanted us to be a region without ambition want to do so. They want to forbid us to be and to be. Let us explain ourselves to the world, that we are following an open, entrepreneurial country and that we are looking to the outside. It's funny, because they want to stop what they've been reporting for a long time, such as the United Nations Arbitrary Detention Group, International Trial Watch, Amnesty International or the same Council of Europe. Between the pain of panic that they have to cause these pronouncements and the pinch at the nose that some of them later do, from Junts to Catalonia we think that the diagnosis is clear and we suggest a reception: democracy, a daily dose and for life. As I said before, Catalonia has the responsibility to explain lively and to answer questions that make us respect which policies could, for example, make a Catalan state and which relations it would maintain with its European or Mediterranean veins. Do we have to shut up, too, if they ask us? Catalonia also has to explain to the world the judicial and political persecution suffered by the State, a state that has used the courts of justice and the Court of Auditors as the enforcer of its repressive policy. In the absence of a political response to a democratic conflict, we receive robes with many punches and they claim to be silent, that we do not express ourselves. The last example is from the last week; they are chasing the professor of the University of Barcelona Josep Lluís Alay for having watched as an observer at a self-determination referendum authorized for another Member State of the European Union. And yet they will not tolerate the great international task carried out by President Puigdemont from exile. It is essential, therefore, that Catalonia has a powerful international projection, which allows us to have the visibility that the Spanish State denies us. For people, for culture, for language. In short, for the interests of Catalonia and Catalans. That is why, Counselor, I would like to know what the international activity that the Department of Foreign Affairs and Government Obert will last in the remainder of the year will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.11.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.12.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, deputies, deputies, two figures: approximately 100_million, and an increase of 27,8_per_cent. This is the premise... in the new premise, the data, the figures for the Department of External Action; it is the department that already exists that grows the most with propitious foundations, and this is also a political response, a response to the importance that external action has for this government, and also a response to the 155 rescue that, in the case of Externals, was an attempt to disappear from the proper department, and from the Court of Auditors that sought the civilian death of our workers. We have reviewed the international agenda with the same ambition as before. And in this sense, the journeys of work, the journeys when we go to other countries, a very important part of this action. Since the coven has returned to leave us to travel to France, we have gone to Italy, we have gone to Switzerland; we have met with members of the executive and legislature of these countries, and also with meetings with international organizations that are important, therefore, to position Catalonia as a global actor that is committed to the challenges we share with the countries of the world. Here, therefore, we meet with the OECD, with UNESCO, with the High Commission of United Nations for the Defense of Human Rights, with UNHCR, with the international association of Covax cows. And from here, answering the question, Member, in which we have several journeys planned: we go to France, we go to the United Kingdom, we go to Belgium, we go to the United States and we go to Mexico. In these trips we will defend Catalonia's interests – because, if this government doesn't do it, no one else will do it – and then we will explain what our national reality is, because we understand that it is our right, it is our duty and it is the mandate of this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.13.0	He asked the Government to give an oral reply in full on the resolutions that were precluding economic sovereignty. [[Asks the Government about the resolutions that prevent economic sovereignty]] [[310-00133/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Elsa Artadi, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor Giró. Yesterday, to the Committee on Feminisms of this Parliament, the group of the commons brought to us a resolution incorporating two points, and I quote: "Express the rebuff to the obstructive strategy of parties to defeat, through the courts, the consensus forged in the Parliament of Catalonia, and manifest the legitimacy of the laws approved in the Plenary of the Parliament. We agree, and that's why the deputies from Juntes for Catalonia wanted to give us support. Because beyond the law of equality, which is very important in itself and is the object of this resolution, it is a situation that we often live in in this Parliament, in a democracy that is being brought to justice, that constantly interferes in the sovereignty of Parliament and in the work we do as a group of Members and Members of this House, and that, in fact, we are seeing it in all areas in our pocket as legislators. We saw this in the law against climate change, challenged to the Constitutional; with the law of housing emergence, challenged to the Constitutional; laws to protect animals, challenged to the Constitutional; poor energy, challenged to the Constitutional; commercial timetables and protection of our business model, challenged to the Constitutional; digital and cybersecurity laws, challenged to the Constitutional; laws against fracking, challenged to the Constitutional; obviously, the law of equality. And so drawings of laws, of the work that we make deputies and deputies in this Parliament, which then political parties decide to put themselves under the skirts of a politicized justice in order to impose itself on the popular will. But if it is true that this is the usual practice of parties like the People's Party, it is not less true that it is also a common practice of parties that conform to the current Spanish Government, that do not hesitate to use the same mechanisms and do not hesitate to take advantage of a Spanish justice that is always against what Catalan citizens vote for. And now we have found that the government of Pedro Sánchez and the government of Yolanda Díaz also brought to the Constitutional the tax rebate to make them lower from the job; that the most progressive government of history has decided that the 300,000 families that most need our help and a tax rebate will not be able to hold them. What's the councilman's capture? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.15.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.16.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, now it will be a year, thanks to an agreement between the Government of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, it has introduced a reminder to the law of escorts so that it can adapt the least exempt to the most vulnerable people, that they can have a tax reduction people who were in yields of twelve_ thousand euros down. Well, the surprise was that shortly after the Spanish government, which is also part of Comú Puem, filed an appeal with the Constitutional Court. And the next surprise was that this Constitutional Court, which can no longer make more efforts to deepen its international contempt, this Constitutional Court, has recently charged this tax rebate to the most vulnerable people in the measure we have taken, so now it will be a year. What does all this prove? This shows three elements that are very common in relations with the State. First, the absolute minimum with the differences between territories: it is the same that there are territories with a higher income, with a higher level of life, with a higher or lower purchasing capacity; any inequality of the territory is diminished, and what is sought is the unity of the country, of its country. The second element, which also stands out, is, of course, the underprivilegedness of the sovereignty of this Parliament; all that this Parliament will rise and which represents the people of Catalonia decides, if they do not like it, if they do not go well or if they do not take their power, they will carry it. And the third least, for me, is the most worrying of all, because it's the least to the people who need it the most. When this Parliament, in a singular territory, with the sovereignty of this Parliament, tries to sail for the interests of those who need it most, if they do not like it, they also carry it without any problem. But don't worry, Congresswoman, because we're already working so we can resolve this inequality manifests and be able to do it again and see how... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about investments in infrastructure]] [[310-00134/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on investments in infrastructure. The question is posed by Mr Joan Canadell, Member of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Vice President. A few days ago we knew that the execution of infrastructure by the State in Catalonia during the first half of the year is around thirty per cent, a figure that suggests that it will be completed, one year more, the assumption of infrastructure in Catalonia and, most likely, we will not get to the seventy-four per cent compliment of the last two years, which is already quite embarrassing. When it comes to completing the laws – and the premise is the most important one to pass at the Congress – the State never fulfills its commitments to Catalonia. In fact, I don't care, because, even though I didn't complete it, it's absolutely nothing. Interestingly, there are always excuses for diverting attention and again asking for assumptions to be made that the year you see will be different. After thirty years of failure, they pretend that we now think things will be different, but we've already lost all confidence. And that's why we're clear that the only way is independence. In fact, last week, one more time, the economic world of the Catalan Countries, with Andalusia, showed the enragement for the umpteenth failure of the Mediterranean Corridor. Catalan minister Raquel Sánchez has again promised a date; she says it will be over between 2025 and 2026. It is a pity that the hemerotheque taught us that this commitment had already been promised in 2012 for 2015 and 2017 for 2020. For the time being, eleven years of hardening and the warmest is water. They then say that the Madrid economy exceeds Catalan, but they see that the level of compliment of the infrastructure assumption in Madrid has been, in the past years, in the last two years, over one hundred_per_cent. And any economist understands that the investment generates GDP and, in turn, the non-complimentaryness of the assumptions in infrastructure leads to a loss of competitiveness. But this serves them to deceive part of the population by telling them that the fact that Madrid grows above Catalonia is the fault of the process, when Catalonia more than twenty-five years ago supposes the dinosaur_percent of the pesso of the economy of the State, and Madrid only pushes at the cost of learning Spain. Vice-President, our group considers the infrastructure of the Mediterranean Corridor to be very important. We know that there are multinationals in the automotive industry who have ruled out large investments in Catalonia because of the lack of compliments on the commitments of the respective governments of the State. And while the State was inverted into the Atlantic Corridor. And we're afraid that this is the real reason for the Mediterranean Corridor's braking. I would like to ask you, Vice-President, if you have concrete data on the compliment of the State in the key infrastructures of the country and for the welfare of the people, such as the Mediterranean Corridor and also the rolling stock. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.19.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congressman. Yeah, let's go, first, make a reference to the Mediterranean Corridor, because it's really scandalous. Miri, I'll give you a prognosis today: before we have the 5G corridor of the Mediterranean that the Mediterranean railway corridor, which we've been waiting for so many years. [[Some applause.]] And I'll say it again, huh? Because, unfortunately, it wouldn't have to be like this. I believe that it has been, on the part of the State, a disruptive policy for what it does to the union between Catalonia and the Valencian country, boldly, for many years. How can it be that between Barcelona and València there are fewer kilometers than until Madrid and Madrid is already connected, say, with high speed with these two cities and we are not Barcelona and València? A runner, certainly, economically very powerful and exactly what would go for the good of the Spanish economy, huh? And, finally, it is one of those questions that clearly, on the part of the governments of the State, passes before the Unionist ideology that does not the economic iron ideology of the State, therefore, a country or a state that takes into account the importance that the economic progress must have for its citizens. But I let him talk to him about rollers, too. Look, if with the Mediterranean Corridor, so, we've seen what we've seen, it's going exactly the same way. It makes masses years that the State does not invest in rolling mills of Catalonia. I have devoted myself to looking at the comparative figures of the assumptions of the later years by the State. Miri, 2020, assumed 100_million euros, executed zero. In Madrid and Asturias: executed the cent_30_per_cent in Madrid; cent_dotze_per_cent in Asturias. 2021, presuppositions 201_million euros, executed zero. In Madrid and Asturias: executed 146_per_cent in Madrid and executed 100_new_per_cent in Asturias. Therefore, once again, an insurmountable deficit for the citizens of Catalonia. This has to be, it has to be the legislature of the wheelbarrows, because there's enough. So, I'm in, huh? the parties represented in this chamber that also have responsibility in Madrid so that we can carry out this transfer and that we can see in this legislature how the rolling stock is managed from the vicinity, that we can manage among all, from here, effectively, as we do with other rolling stock, in this case of Railways, or also – why not say so? – with the metro of Barcelona and with the management that we work together in the metropolitan area. I think they're much more effective than the... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.21.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the malalts of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. [[Ask the Government about amyotrophic lateral sclerosis malalities]] [[310-00129/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.22.0	Thank you, President. Benvolgut advisor and Dr. Argimon, in Catalonia there are no fewer than five hundred people affected by amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ELA, one of the hardest diseases they know, that paralyzes little by little all the muscles, that you stop being able to walk, beautify yourself, eat, talk... You have to drill a throat to breathe, you need to assist the twenty-four hours of day and night, and there is no family in the world that can afford it and that can resist it if the administrations regate the attention and resources, in Catalonia and Spain. In Spain, the government of Pedro Sánchez has already made it clear that it considers ALS patients sacrificial. The PSOE has refused to even process the citizens' bill to dignify these patients and recognize their inability from the moment of diagnosis. They say there's no money for that. And I ask you, counselor: you in tea, in money, for these ills? What is the generality planning to do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.23.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.24.0	President, Mrs Grau, Members, Members... As you said, the ELA is a neurodegenerative disease that has neither treatment at present nor treatment that alters the course of the disease; it is a highly incapacitating disease, with a great psychoemotional impact for the individual, obviously, and for all the affection and family background of that person. Catalonia is organized with specialisation networks – the XUECs, which we call it, are also the reference or expert units – following the recommendations of the European Union. In this sense, therefore, we have everything that refers to children in Vall d'Hebron and Sant Joan de Deu, and with adults, in Vall d'Hebron, Sant Pau, Parc Tauli and also in the Hospital del Mar. This is organized..., from this point of view, they are responsible for everything that is early detection, the follow-up of these diseases, also in combination with everything that refers to primary care. In their moments, say, the more advanced of the disease, they are people, some of them– and here it will also depend on their values and preferences –, that they will enter it long or they will take other courses of attention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.25.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.26.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Well, we all know that there is no omnipotent government and that resources are not unlimited. Dependence is the great pending assignment of our health and social systems. These terrible deaths, however, slow, frightening, but dreary, of the evils of ELA, which do not activate the alarms of the system or of the public opinion, as can be done for, for example, the covid, they become private hells where, in practice, the public administration likes to get in there. But this is the difference between humanity and inhumanity, between a company that works and a machine to collect taxes and eat meat. It seems to me that you and I agree to defend the right to euthanasia, to a worthy death. Well, so that's inseparable from defending the right to a decent life, that no one wants to die before now to be a burden, not to morally and economically devastating families. ELA's disease needs qualified health care at twenty-four hours of the day; ELA's disease needs to be able to keep this until and if the family cannot pay six_ thousand_ euros per month; ELA's disease needs specific protocols to emergency services. Above all, you need to trust that society does not consider it sacrificial in order not to spend money. There was no presuppositional departure of the world more important than that which avoids the suffering of people. All the rest, he'll forgive me, it's, or it should be, secondary. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.27.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.28.0	I think you've explained it very well, it's a very highly incapacitating illness. Certainly, you have cited euthanasia – it is a right that at these times we have everything – and therefore from this perspective, also from what are the values and preferences of people, euthanasia can enter, as can also enter the palliative cure or other types of course of action. In this sense, we will always defend this need to respect values and preferences, and I think the whole health system does. Certainly, here, as I said, at some point these patients choose what it is to enter a socio-sanitary center. At these times, we have a deu_per_cent of the people who choose to enter a long-term, long-term socio-sanitary center, and who therefore receive this attention, so the twenty-four hours of the day. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.29.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the education system. [[Ask the Government about the education system]] [[310-00138/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Irene Aragonès, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.30.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Cambray, we live in an extraordinary country, a country where we have made of our language a link of social cohesion; where the opportunity to learn our language in a transversal way has enriched and prided us as the people. And the school had a phone book, a decision paper. The education system has acted as a lever with a bet for language as we have to revalue, the català as the find language and as the social elevator. You can say it with serene self-esteem. Malauramentously, you've got to be kidding me. The Higher Evaluation Board advances data on the evolution of linguistic uses in educational settings. A quarter of ESO, in 2006, 2013 and 2021, decreases the use of català in the classroom; also in group activities, in equal relationships, the castella is used mostly, and there is a clear retrograde for what it does to the relationship of the teacher with the group. Therefore, a little use of català in the oral interactions of the student in the different learning contexts and a tendency to change the language of the teachers in oral relations with the student to the detriment of the català, both in formal contexts and informal contexts. And don't worry because the educational community hasn't dedicated to it, it hasn't made any effort, years against it, just because we find ourselves in a paradigm shift. The rascal and the youth have shaped their social uses of the game, and this has a direct move in the use of the català. If the català is not useful, if it is an impossible mission to access audiovisual products doubled or subtitled in català, if the català stops having this social function, it does not use it. After a clear relaxation of the last decade, we get the presence of Catalan in the audiovisual law, we push the national pact for language, which will be an indispensable tool both to protect and to encourage, to increase the use of Catalan language in all sectors. Counselor, and as far as education is concerned, how can we reverse this situation? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.31.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.32.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Aragones, you said, we live in an extraordinary country, and the catalá is the language of our country. We move so far with perceptions, we move with impressions, and now we begin to have the first data. I, therefore, public policies must always take data. We're in front of a situation that we don't like; we're in front of a situation that's not what we want. And so, what we do is move on, make things happen, with conviction, firmness and realism. Consteller Garriga has said this on different occasions: the Government is starting a new stage for what it does to linguistic policy. And that is why, within the framework of the National Linguistic Pact, knowing and taking into account that the school is part of the solution; knowing and taking into account that we have to move forward in many other areas – you commented – and knowing and taking into account that in the end the school normally ends up feeling the reflection of what happens to society, what we do is to deploy a plan, to deploy an impulse and to promote the Catalan language to the educational centres. A plan that we will do with and from educational centres; a plan that in four years will reach all educational centres in the country; a plan that basically generates within educational centres, so as to know what is actually going on at every one of our schools and institutes, a driving group that does that all teachers and teachers in this country, 120,000 teachers and professionals in this country, will have to take awareness and training courses not in the knowledge of català, which obviously already have it, but only to have them to change their language and to have them to increase this social use of català in our classrooms. And, in addition, within the national language pact, what we will do will also be a more accurate diagnosis of what is actually happening in all areas of education, in all stages of education at our educational centres. Listen, català is a matter of country. The Catalan school model is and has been a success model. What we have to do now is strengthen it. The Catalan has been, is and will continue to feel the language vehicle to the Catalan education system, and, therefore, defending and pushing the Catalan is defending and advancing the country. MPs and MPs, for all this school, in Catalonia, in Catalan. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.33.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the best agreements for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra at the Board of Security of Catalonia. [[Ask the Government about the best agreements for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra at the Board of Security of Catalonia]] [[310-00139/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jaume Butinyà of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. In the last few days interventions, whether in the form of a motion or a question, around emergencies and security in this hemisphere have been overcome, which shows that everything that is related to security and emergencies in Catalonia concerns them. We are concerned because the Catalan people have increased in name and the risks we are under today are not the same as thirty or forty years ago. Consequently, the answer to be given must also be different. And when we refer to different responses we think about the model to be applied and the amount of resources allocated. In the last few days we have had two hopeful news in this sense. For one band, last week at the briefing session on the assumptions of which the Department of Interior is endowed for the next 2022 we knew that they would be allocated up to 1,274_million euros to incorporate us effectively, if the assumption is approved. In total there would be 1,500 effective in the proper summonses for us by 2022, 840 of which set up squadron moves. For another band, last November 5th held, also, place in Barcelona the Junta de Seguretat de Catalunya. On this safety board came to various agreements, one of them the compromise to implement a new stride of effect of the squadron's Mossos template. The increase in effectiveness has to answer above all to a better quality of resources and not only quantitative. That is to say, it has to be used to modernize and adapt the emergence services to the new demands and improve the response, equipping itself with human resources and renewing the better... and improving the teams. For all this, it was political decision with the will to change. For all this, counselor, our parliamentary group would like to know which are the main improvements that will have resulted in this agreement respecting the Police of Mossos d'Esquadra on the Security Board. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.35.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.36.0	President, deputies and deputies, guests... effectively, it's a lot of security talk, isn't it? And always, because it's a very high issue, because it's the guarantee of the rights and freedoms of citizens, especially the most vulnerable. And, in this sense, yes, the premise brings a much more effective incorporation, for a band, and much more presumption. In particular, from Chapters 2 to 8 a twenty per cent more, which will make it possible to make more security policy and emerge in the service of the majority of Catalans and Catalans. And, indeed, the agreement was very, very high. It was essential, because we had already arrived at the 18,237-mos roadway that was agreed on the year 2006. And at this point, an increase of 20 per cent to 22,006 was achieved, not only by virtue of the number of inhabitants, but also by an increase of 2,3 to 2,5 of the number of squadron movements per thousand inhabitants. From this point of view, it is a very important agreement that allows us to work in a police of more proximity, more social, that allows and guarantees the reprete of the generational network and also to address challenges such as organized crime, cybercrime, violence and so many others. There are other agreements that refer to incorporating us into different sets of data bases from different countries, and in this sense it is very relevant because we are homologated as a more European police. And, in this sense, there is also an agreement, which is to allow our police to move across borders, not only to the hot pursuits, but also to the investigation. And this agreement is very important, especially in some of the territories of our country. And it is regrettable to know that the President of the People's Party said the other day that this was to continue the independence challenge and that he, when he was President of the Government, would repeal it. It's very unfortunate, because, curiously enough, Ertzaintza also has it, but he didn't say that he did. I'm sure I respond, once more, to a step more in this grudged anticatalanism than many times patim. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.37.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on policies for the repair of male and female rapes and hate crimes. [[Ask the government about policies for the repair of mascot rapes and hate crimes]] [[310-00140/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Jenn Díaz, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.38.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Counselor, the last decade and above all the last years have been important in the strength of feminist movement for many reasons, but I would like to highlight the power that it meant to popularize proclamations and chains like the « Me Too or the « I do believe you. There have been many advances, but these two slogans have become aware of a society that often put the media focus on guilt and not on the victim. This is what proposes in the institutional sphere the proper diligence of the « Germana, I believe in « Germana, the Generalitat, the Government of your country, and I believe you. And I don't just believe you, but I'll come with you, and I won't just go with you, but he'll do everything he can to make sure he never gets there too late, and even to get ahead of us and prevent it. Diligence in a nutshell is the fact that I believe in public administration, it is the responsibility of each and every one of the rapes we suffer, because we are well aware that it is not about isolated cases or individual causes, and that patriarchal violence as a society, as a society, we have to find the mechanisms of reparation. For this reason, because the obligation of the administrations is to age, prevent, accompany and repair patriarchal rapes, in the modification of the law of rapes the last legislature we incorporated this concept into the definitions, because the rights of women and of the LGTBI collection are human rights and because the institutions have to guarantee them and they have to age for them. I take this opportunity to recall that the PP, this PP who tells us that men are discriminated against and persecuted, filed an appeal against this extension of the law; because it is always good to remember who works to guarantee rights and who works to minimize them and make them invisible. For this reason, we are convinced that the fourth wave of feminism, the current one, which has succeeded in occupying the spaces of power that belong to us, is the key to the future of our country. We would like to ask, advise, in this sense, and after the presentation of the lines of action of the Department of Equality and Feminisms, who are the proposals on follow-up, prevention and reparation to patriarchal rapes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.39.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. As you say, due diligence is the most powerful element of Law 5/2008, as amended by Parliament last December, and thus fits the international human rights framework. This implies something as simple, but at the same time complex, such as acting quickly, acting effectively and acting because all and every intervention fits the needs of victims and survivors. This also implies that public powers must apply this due diligence both in the prevention phase, in the attention phase, and in the repair phase. And the repair is precisely the obligation that implies a stronger impulse on the part of the public powers to put in the center the needy of the women. And that can't depend on a potential judge and conviction of those responsible, in many cases because those responsible will never identify themselves, in other cases perhaps because the attacker even died, as happens in the cases of men who murder their peers or exparencies, and can't depend on feelings that have come too late. The entire specialized network of attention to masclistic rapes has to act under this repair parameter, to repair the damage, but at the same time there are some actions that require an immediate response, there are situations that require the immediate response. And for this reason we have included two dispositions to the preliminary draft of the law that accompanies the assumptions: one related to the cases of feminicide and another in the case of hate crimes. In the case of feminicides, what we do is we cover with public money the burial or the transfer or repatriation of women who have been murdered, so that we help families in this street instead of causing this discomfort, this suffering added. In the second instance, in cases of hate crimes, we cover medical interventions not included in the basic health care portfolio in the immediate aftermath of aggression and not linked to judicial resolution, because the government will be at the side of victims because they are not at the stage, and much more so than this must we have to eradicate them, also precisely will be at their side to help them in their most immediate recovery. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.41.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the forecasts for the situation of workers in the public sector in jobs due to negligence of the administrations. [[Ask the Government about the forecasts for the situation of workers in the public sector in jobs due to negligence of the administrations]] [[310-00130/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Basha Change, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.42.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, what measures – and no excuses – is the government adopting to put an end to all the selected processes in progress and in fraud because they include temporary inside seats?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.43.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.44.0	Thank you, Madam President, we are aware of this rate of excessive temporality, of more than thirty per cent; we are aware that this is happening to the Generality and to local authorities. It is for many reasons, but above all it is, in fact, for the state regulatory limitation of the repositioning rate that is still in force. We have explained several times in his parliamentary office, also to the representatives of the workers and workers, that our proposal is the stabilization of these plants. And, therefore, our mental mark does not go through massive compensations, but we want to guarantee and not dispense with these effects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.45.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.46.0	We ask for measures and do not apologize about the interruption of ongoing proceedings because they are every time more numerous the judicial sentences that recognize the fixation of workers in storms of temporality as the only legal solution to the negligence of the Administration. We ask why they do not stop the proceedings, also taking into account the many complaints and precautionary measures that the affected and the unions that defend them have presented respect to the opposition in fraud and that they are still pending judgment. And we ask, too, why we have the process going on in this very Parliament of the Law of Stabilization of the Workers of the Catalan Public Sector as the collective solution for the more than one thousand Catalan interims currently in the storm. And we can't avoid the adversaries of the decree to the Congress of Madrid, which, while failing to comply with the European Union's rules because the competitions it proposes are open and uncertain, even if it doesn't solve the situation of the majority of interns in the abuses of the Catalan Administration because with the restrictions of antiquity and the location of the place of work seek to stabilize places and not people, all the same, they have the inexplicable support of the Republican Left, which aligns itself with the Socialist Party and we can to disempower the public workers to change from know no more. Therefore, let us repeat: beyond the use of the internals as the currency of change in their party negotiations that benefit no more, beyond the search for rights to not assume the responsibility of the Administration in its negligence for decades, what does the Government intend to do to defend the rights of all workers in the Catalan public sector? Or, if not, how do you plan to pay the millions' compensation that you inevitably take... for these measures that are agreeing with the PSOE in Madrid? Because, as he told us, counsel, these millions are not covered by the assumption. And they're not just putting up with the lawsuits, they're just calling us, like the geriatric assistants.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.47.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.48.0	Thank you, President. Member, well, Europe, indeed, has touched the peak of the State in the sense that this excessive temporality required measures. In this sense, there are uncertain scenes in the State, but in any case, it seems to be that they provide an exceptional route of merit competitions to stabilize these workers and workers occupying a square before 2016, or via stabilization processes through opposition competitions for workers occupying a square in an uninterrupted manner at least three years before 31 December 2020, in any case by a route of forty_per_cent of merit– and this is the novelty – and sixty_per_cent in tests not eliminating. In any case, what I can tell you is that the Government of the Generality is coming to bring in an ordinary public offer of 5,152 seats, and that is exceptional for its own... so, in this case, then, thousands of seats that we will be able to take, but, for another band, obviously, the Government is very fond of what this Parliament will say and what it will say with the best that we will obviously have to apply in public office. We work, therefore, with different scenes that we don't plant... but we don't plant these massive compensations to which you refer. Because, in fact, there will be a double option for the workers of the Generality: an ordinary way of opposition, but this will not exclude a possible way of stability. Therefore, we are a guaranteed government for everyone's rights and apply the principle of transparency, merit and ability, which are republican principles of access to public office. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.49.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on social policy priorities. [[Ask the Government about priorities in social policy]] [[310-00141/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eva Parera, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.50.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, everyone. We would like to know what kind of importance this government and this council is giving to the family support policies in particular, because frankly we have remained a little concerned about the proposed assumptions they have put forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.51.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.52.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, in fact, a couple of days ago we held the committee in Parliament, so we could explain what is the policy and what is the assumption of the department in these assumptions of the Government of Catalonia. It's hard..., the question I was asking was our social priorities and it's hard to answer in two minutes and a half which are all these social priorities. What I can tell you is that, from the Government of the Generality and especially from the Department of Social Rights, our priorities are the social rights of citizens, of all citizens. And in these social rights, obviously, there are families, which is a form of organization of people and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.53.0	To answer the question, Mrs. Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.54.0	Thank you, President. Look, I want to remind you that families were the key to the 2008 crisis. Without the families, the crisis has been much deeper. Many pairs, many opinions were able to help many children to pay mortgages, to pay loggers. Today you present us with assumptions of 38,139_million euros, I repeat 38,139_million euros, of which only 10,900,000_euros are allocated to support policies for the family; 10,900,000_euros of 38,139. It seems to us frankly insufficient and it seems to us that it is a very clear message: this government does not believe in families. You in 2020, presuppost 2020, have already reduced by fifty-two_per_cent, under the assumption, support policies for families. Now only the 1_million euro boost in relation to the last assumption, 1_million, when we are ahead of a very important economic crisis. In the past few years, family support policies have suffered a fall of the eighty_per_cent; it is 44_million euros and only 1_million euros are added. We have more than three million family families with children who need support in the face of the economic crisis. But for your priority, TV3, Catalunya Radio, 284_millions; external action, 67.2_millions, it is more important to spend on external delegations than on family. And that's something we're very concerned about, because family is the foundation of all society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.55.0	To answer, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.56.0	Thank you very much, President. Miri, Mrs. Parera, I insist, the family is a form of organization of the citizens. As you say, the Social Rights Department's budget is €3,800_million, thirty_per_cent more than the budget for the year 2020. And this assumption is nothing more than dedicated to people, organized also into families. I'll make it a rest, even though I said it the other day. Forty-five percent of the budget is devoted to the promotion of personal autonomy, the promotion of the personal autonomy of people living in families, large people, people with some type of disability... The denou_per_cent of the budget was devoted in support of families and in support, above all, of the poor of these families; the denou_per_cent of the budget, for families. The setze_per_cent is dedicated to housing. On the assumption that I explained to them, up to EUR 114_million we would devote just to avoiding misdemeanours and helping families, in order to be able to fight precisely against these misdemeanours and to be able to pay for these social aid. The deu_per_cent was dedicated to childhood, adolescence and youth, to children who do not have a family and who therefore have to protect the Generality, and who, as I have already commented on, are almost eight thousand..., or even ten thousand who receive some benefit. Therefore, all the assumptions, absolutely all the assumptions of the Department of Social Rights have been devoted to citizens, citizens and citizens, organized also in families. But not only the presumption of the Department of Social Rights, the presumption of the whole Generality: the presumption that they dedicate to the Department of Education, the presumption that is dedicated to the Feminisms, the presumption that is dedicated to the Climate Action and Agriculture, the presumption that is dedicated to the Universities..., all the pressure was dedicated to the citizens of Catalonia, organized into families. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.57.0	He asked the Government to reply in the plenary on the attendance of the President of the Generality at the Glasgow summit with the motivation of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change COP26. [[Ask the Government about the attendance of the President of the Generality at the Glasgow Summit at the United Nations Conference on Climate Change COP26]] [[310-00131/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joan Garriga, Member of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.58.0	How do you appreciate the attendance of the President of the Generalitat at the Glasgow COP26 climate summit?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.59.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.60.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies and deputies, very good morning. So, miri, I appreciate it very positively. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.61.0	To answer that, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.62.0	Miri, Madam Counselor, Mr Aragonès' attendance was a useless journey that we could have saved ourselves, because he wasted the money of the Catalans, and his participation in the summit was null and void. He dedicated himself to what he knows how to do, which is to promote local warming, encourage division and confrontation by seeking support in Scotland for his rupturist project in Catalonia. The summit was a failure. You, the ecologists of the living room, continue to bitter the life of our fellow citizens by criminalizing them for eating meat, traveling by plane, having a diesel car or a classic motorcycle. They have ruined our Catalan, Spanish industry, our factories, and now they are going after our food industry. You, ecologists, criminalise and marginalise Europeans while countries like China or India are the most polluting countries in the world. Forty-six percent of the plastics dumped into the sea come from Asia. China emits 11,000 tonnes of CO2 and Spain, 214. But what is your answer? What are your conclusions? Continue to limit industry in Europe, losing millions of jobs, with the excuse of not polluting, and let Asian products enter in clear unfair competition, because they do not respect the environment or our social rights. You're hypocrites. Secondly, turning your back on the citizens who pay in Spain the most expensive receipt of the light in Europe. And, with the excuse of the environment, do not promote national energy sovereignty so as not to depend on other countries. Third, in Catalonia, imposing a new tax like that of CO2, with the excuse of the environment, looting the pockets of Catalans. Because this new tribute is an injustice that we are not going to allow. You punish the worker that you can't change the van or the family that you can't buy an electric car. Mobility is a fundamental right for citizens, to work or to live in society. I here, between the Generalitat and the municipalities, limit private transport – yes, they limit it – but, on the other hand, they greatly increase the cost of public transport for families and citizens; in many cases, double the CPI in the last fifteen years. Look, Madam Councillor, less globalist elites and more work; less climate summits and more social justice; less room ecology and more green conservatism. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.63.0	To answer, the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.64.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Garriga, I won't spend two seconds trying to convince you. But, if you'll allow me, I'll have two of them split up, yes, to see three things. Miri, the first, while you're telling us that climate change is ideology, it's totalitarianism, it's separatism and all these things, we work and work even harder to get rid of our lives. According to what I would like to say to you, while you say to us, on a permanent basis, when you talk about the agenda – for example – 2030, that it is a totalitarian agenda, that it is the globalist agenda and, more than ever, that it is the agenda of ruin, while you say all this, so, look, we will, I tell you, more efforts than ever – more efforts than ever – to reduce the polluting emissions of our country. And, third thing, while you hold each other's fight against the climate change of green religion – what canvas, huh? –, green religion, ecological delusions, and they talk about hysterical environmentalism, we – we – already tell him that we will go further to mitigate the climate change. I, miri, I still have a minute left. One tip: in Glasgow, the president of the Generality, the vice president and a servant, among other things, we presented Catalonia before the world – before the world – as a protagonist actor to face the climate emergency. And you know what I'm saying? That we are not very proud, because this goes for salvation and life, that of the planet, also that of the country. And I'll tell you one thing, too. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.65.0	He asked the Government to respond orally to the plenary on the future of the Tarragona Camp Recreation and Tourism Centre. [[Ask the Government about the future of the Tarragona Camp Recreation and Turistic Centre]] [[310-00135/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.66.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, what is the government's understanding of the future of the project of the Recreation and Tourism Centre in Vila-seca and Salou? [[Pause.]] No, the anava question addressed to Vice President Puignero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.67.0	To answer, you have the word, as it appears in the guide, the advisor Jaume Giró, conseller d'Economia i Hisenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.68.0	Thank you, President. Answer him, honourable Member, that, respecting the last day that Mr Parés asked us for the same question, there was no change. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.69.0	To answer the question, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.70.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, so we're still not sure who his parent is on this subject. And that worries us, and it worries us a lot, more, in view of what we've known in the last few hours and the last few days. You presented the draft assumptions containing 120_millions to descale the CRT. And we immediately learned that these 120_millions can disappear if this facilitates approval of the assumptions on the part of the CUP, that you don't see the project well; in fact, you've never seen it – it's not a surprise. So we have to ask them: what is this government playing at? How can such important economic projects for the future of Camp Tarragona be a currency of change in a political negotiation? How can the Camp of Tarragona be the victim of a political chanting, of a market that has hard consequences on our territory? The predecessor–counsellor– of the vice-president and president Aragonès, then vice-president, appeared a year ago in this Parliament to explain at what point the CRT project was. In that appearance, the two were referring to the thousands of jobs and the positive effects that the CRT would have on Tarragona's economy. Don't they care about jobs or these beneficial effects on Tarragona's economy anymore? Will you explain to the more than forty-thousand people in the Tarragona Camp that thousands of work places are disappearing because the CUP, as you said, wants to send this project to the history paper? Counselor, this government has put itself in the hands of radicals, those who want to decline economically, and, in this process, will water the country. They're turning into the no government: not to the airport's expansion, not to the winter games, and it looks like not to the Vila-seca and Salou CRT. Catalonia cannot afford it; the Camp de Tarragona cannot afford it. Government, councillor; govern throughout Catalonia. Donation of security to Catalans and Catalans, also to whom we live to the south, because the south also exists. Lead and accompany projects that involve a lot of jobs for our territories and a lot of wealth for our territories. They know that if they do, they'll find us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.71.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.72.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. With the information society, which is often a lot of misinformation, and it's a bad thing that we suffer. I'll lighten it quickly. Listen, look, in the first place, as I said, the project is where it was: the urban director is preparing himself at this time; once he has done, he will pass to his approval to the planning committee. We're waiting for this to happen. That said – said that – what I will tell you is the following: we need a living country, a living country and a balanced country. A living country is the one that repels economic investments that help people to have work places beyond the capital, Barcelona. And, therefore, we believe in all this and we will seek..., and it will not be this councilor or the government that we have in the country today, not the ones that we are against projects that complement legal regulations, urban regulations, that generate wealth by then redistributing it, that do not suppose any public euro of expenditure, that do not violate any protected natural space and that, at the end of the day, as I said, contribute to a rich and balanced country. If that's what it is, then listen, there's nothing to be done. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.73.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the planned investment to Baix Penedès by 2022. [[Ask the Government about the planned investment at Baix Penedès by 2022]] [[310-00136/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Dolors Carreras, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.74.0	Thank you, President. Honourable President, Counsellor, Members, Members, good morning to all. Counselor, the Baix Penedès exists. That said the banner that the fourteen mayors of the region carried on September 20 when the councillor of the Presidency, Laura Vilagrà, took them to the Generality. And all the while they were rejected by different deputies and deputies from different political groups in this Parliament. The Baix Penedès is a region that carries many years of demographic growth; the population grows and the needs of its municipalities and its citizens increase, and the only one that does not grow from years ago is the reversal on the part of the Generality. The region at these times is feeling underprivileged. These assumptions are insufficient and insolidary; they are insolidary because only 6.3_million in investments and 0.4 of the assumptions are destined for Baix Penedès. Don't you think that as a matter of urgency it would be the expansion of the Vendrell district hospital, a small hospital to give services to the people of the region, without forgetting the increase in summer, Holy Week and holidays? It is no longer possible to assume more, not on the part of health professionals, not on the part of users; it is unsustainable. Don't you think, counselor, that it must be a priority, both in space and in staff growth? With the expansion of the project, it would be possible to expand and even double operating rooms, beds, emergency boxes, external consultations and intensive care beds. Have you not had time, interest or gain to look at the manifesto that the mayors handed over with their demands?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.75.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.76.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Dolors Carreras. I have a little flaw, and I read my papers. Therefore, I can assure you that I read it and, in addition, I stayed with the mayors of Lower Penedès to see it all the same. Say that, look, let's go back to misinformation. The assumptions of 2022 have an import of 10,423,868 euros and a cent for Baix Penedès. This compares to 2,037,000 euros in 2020. Therefore, there is a very important increment. What's going on? Miri, normally – and I don't say it as a toilet, huh? , it's a thing that happens, usually, and I'm sure that before I'm a counselor, I've been through too – let's look at Chapter 6, Chapter 6, Investments, and let's not look at Chapter 7, which is capital transfers. Then, if we add the two together, the Lower Penedes will have the cipher that I have commented on; there are 10,423,868_euros and a penny in this presupposition of the 22 that we will proximately approve. If we have.... with the time we have, which is small, I would like to say to you that more than you have seen as investments there are others that are 3,475,000_euros of subsidy for the Idiad, very important, to build a test track for the autonomous vehicle, that this generates activity and work places; it also includes 1,200,000 for various actions in sections of reels of the Lower Penedès ; 2,185,020_euros for Calafell, 1,400,000 of these are for the water treatment plant of Calafell ; they also add 1,913,000 for the Montmell, 1 thousand_i_mig of which are for the new construction of the Teresa Godes school and for the other men, and also for the better. It is also planned – surely there will be no time, but after that we can finish commenting – the expansion of the La Parellada school, in Santa Oliva, the residential center of educational activity and the new buildings of... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.77.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Greetings.]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on debt pending with social entities. The question is posed by Mrs Judit Alcalá, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units to advance... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Wasn't that the second line? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, no, excuse me, then. Well, I hadn't put up with the time. It has the word, therefore, the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.78.0	Thank you, Counselor. I'm very happy..., because they've just notified me tomorrow, because some mayors will be coming, and..., I'm glad, that's it, but more or less, if you add up what you just said, it's the checks I gave him. The Baix Penedès exists and the invitation, therefore, to visit it, and if there was political will to give solutions to this difficult situation..., I hope they follow. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.79.0	Now the government had already exhausted its time. [[Ask the government about the outstanding debt with social entities]] [[310-00137/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on debt pending with social entities. Ms. Judit Alcalá, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.80.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Last week, the Third Sector Table of Entities released a press release with the difficult economic situation suffered by social entities for lack of payment by the Generality to various project grants and activities, most of which have already been completed. We are talking about the amount of EUR 65_million, which the Generality gives to these entities. I take advantage of this once more, to thank the task they have made during the pandemic, that they continue to pay attention to the most vulnerable population. Will you advise, can you tell us when the Government of the Generalitat intends to make the payment of 65_million euros that they owe to social entities? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.81.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.82.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, the relationship between the Social Rights Department and entities is different in some of the issues. When you are serving the department through concerts, managing delegates or multi-year grants, these are paid in time and form established for the law itself and the law of morositude, which must be paid to us within two months. So, at these times, all the activities that end up entities through these ways are paid out on time. If you're referring to grant calls, I'll detail it, and I'll end my time anyway. With regard to the 2020 call for grants, the call is already paid in its 95_per_cent– that of 2020 is paid to the ninety-five_per_cent–, the remainder of which has to be paid when the entities are justified. With regard to the 2021 COSPE, it is true, at these times we have not yet been able to pay the five-cent amount of the beast. The reason is because with the new restructuring of the department, which has been fragmented into three different departments, the complexity of Intervention, therefore, prevents these payments from still being made. In addition, since the department we have extended the money game, and this game, therefore, has to go through the government. That said, I am aware of this difficulty, what we will do from the department is to extend the term of execution and justification of the call, so once the activity is finished..., these 49_million euros of beast will be paid, and when the activity is finished, so the rest of the money. For what it refers to the 2022 grant call, which refers to the lines that will be annual, I already tell you that what we will do will take the call to the beginnings of the year. We are aware that one of the difficulties of the entities is that sometimes the calls are too late, and therefore the resolution of the processing for themselves is too late. Therefore, the COSPE call of the year 22 lasts until the first quarter of the year 2022. And what makes reference to the IRPF summons, the 2020 one paid the beast of the north-five_per_cent, the rest of the beast, which is this five_per_cent until it reaches the hundred_per_cent, is paid when there is already all the justifications.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.83.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member, Judit Alcalá, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.84.0	Thank you, President. Miri, counsel, the late payment of grants has been going on for years. I don't need the excuse they're going to do it now. It's not a point of this year, not much less, not a point of the past year. If I don't ask more than three thousand entities that are part of the Third Sector Table. The Socialists and Units Group for Progress has repeatedly called for a payment schedule. We have asked more than a hundred times, Counselor, we have asked to speed up the bureaucracy, we have asked to simplify the documentation. It cannot be that the entities working to abolish the poor, to abolish inequalities, that during the pandemic have made hands and hands to care for more than 800,000 people because of the poor, that have endured the assistance pressure of the pandemic, that have accompanied more than 1 million people at risk of social exclusion, offering stable and continuous support over time, that make a public service that is essential; it cannot be that at today's time, much so that you say that they are almost the norm-five percent paid, let alone that. It's not like that. Ask him, if he wants to. And I'm talking about 2020 grants, and I can prove it, if you want, will advise. Look, the situation is very difficult, very difficult because we're talking about people, and you know what that means. We need these subsidies, above all the entities, to do a good job, to do a good follow-up, and that's not..., and I won't let you say that it's Spain's fault, as they always say in this hemicicle. Maybe it's time they recognized that things didn't work out for them; they've done a bad job on the part of the government these past few years. And I remind you that the previous legislature you were also in government. I'm just going to tell you again that I hope you'll pay the €65_million you owe these entities quickly. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.85.0	Let's move on to questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the measures to return to Catalonia the companies that left 2017]] [[317-00080/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to give an oral reply in full on the political situation. The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.86.0	Thank you, President. What measures do you plan to take for the return of companies that left Catalonia as of 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.87.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.88.0	Thank you very much, President. We, the honourable Member, are putting an end to an economic policy of encouraging the activities that make Catalonia an attractive country for the development of economic activity: research and technology transfer centres, economic promotion policies, alliances also in the educational and format field, and obviously work for infrastructures in the digital field also of quality, which allow the economic activity to slow down in the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.89.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.90.0	Thank you, President. In the nine months after October 2017 5,200 companies and 36,300_million bank deposits left Catalonia to not return. You attribute this escape to the Rajoy government's decree, which little less forced companies to go against their will, one of the grossest and rudest lies in the whole separatist process, and look at those you are well served with. That is a lie I could perfectly explain to you, Mr Jaume Giró, if I were to tell you the truth, of course, that is not the case, because I, unlike other Members here, will never attack Mr Giró for his previous business activity. He had every right in the world to devote himself to it; what Mr. Giró has no right is to lie in parliamentary office blatantly, as he did at his last appearance, blaming that decree for the flight of companies. Because Mr. Turned over at the time was president of the Foundation, the Caixa, owner of the 100_per_cent of Criteria. And do you know who was the first to ask the Rajoy government for such a decree? Oh, surprise! Mr. Giró himself. And I don't make it up. In a letter addressed to the National Securities Market Commission and in the face of increasing legal uncertainty, I quote, "to preserve the interests of the entity as long as the current situation in Catalonia is maintained. The decree is that you asked for it. It is impossible to conceive of greater hypocrisy: « dayless, Spanish at night – if there is money at stake, of course. Mr. Aragonès, stop lying once and for all. The companies left Catalonia because you have turned this land into a real hell, and you will only return to restoring stability, legal certainty and moderate taxes, just the opposite of what you are doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.92.0	Miri, a few days ago I had the opportunity to make a finding with the thirty most important companies in a country of the European Union very close to being established in Catalonia. And the demands they made, which lay on the table to strengthen their presence in the country, were precisely the best of the infrastructures and of the Mediterranean Corridor, which in the stage of government in which the People's Party has held responsibilities has always been obvious - it has always been obvious -, with other priorities. Also the high costs of energy, the result of a model where you have all your own companies, your party, occupying boards of administration of energy companies – a great show of independence respects the political power that some of these companies have. And put on the table also the need to avoid images like, for example, those of the U of October. Those images did give the world a turn, when the People's Party government, of which you were a part, gave the clearest exhibition against not only the economic promotion and the stability of this country, but also of Spain. That day you portrayed the world. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.93.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the need for political stability to restore the economy]] [[317-00073/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.94.0	Mr. Aragonès, you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.95.0	Excuse me, Mr. Carrizosa, with a mask, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.96.0	Oh, you're wearing a mask?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.97.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.98.0	Oh, I'm sorry. Mr Aragonès, you came to the presidency of the Generalitat promising the great transformation of Catalonia, but these days we continue to see how Catalonia slides through the slope of economic decline and political instability. And Ciutadans doesn't say it, the data says it. In the European competitiveness ranking, between 281 regions, Catalonia is at 161, while before the process, it was at 103, fifty_y_eight drop points. Catalonia is receiving fifteen times less foreign investment than Madrid since the coup of 17. Madrid has exceeded us in GDP since 2016. For the first time Andalusia becomes the autonomous community with the most autonomous of Spain, surpassing Catalonia. And with this scenario we need budgets for reconstruction, not accounts that do not undertake a reform of the Administration or touch salaries at its high offices. You don't modernise education, you don't empower FP, you don't connect universities with companies, you don't invest in the future and you don't lower the tax burden, which is the biggest in Spain, because you need to continue looting Catalans to finance the process. We need an environment of legal certainty and political stability for investors and businesses to come back. We are not going to get it with budgets conditioned by the CUP, whose model is the economic decline, charging it with the Hard Rock, the expansion of the airport or the winter Olympic games. That is why we in Ciutadans have tabled an amendment to all these accounts, because we need to change these decay budgets to take-off budgets. I know what you're going to say now, Mr. Aragonès. It will deny the evidence irresponsibly, give a couple of supposedly positive figures, explain an anecdote, as it has now done, and make deaf ears to the alarm voices coming from the Economic Circle, the president of the Spanish Chambers of Commerce, the European Commission, the London School of Economics. Mr Aragonès, stop denying the reality and wreak havoc on the Catalan economy, and do not prevent, with your policies, companies and self-employed people from recovering our economy. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.100.0	Thank you, President. Yes, you've guessed it, Mr. Carrizosa. I'll give you a data that you forgot, because you talked about investments, business creation, barring different periods, territories with different populations, barging percentages and absolute names. But there's a date you left. At the time of comparison, since I am so pleased with your comparisons, in this case of Catalonia with Madrid, therefore, you have left yourself a given, which is the rate of maturity. And the tax rate in Catalonia is lower, because in the end the investments, the presence of entrepreneurs, what do they have for a government? So there's work for everyone. Therefore, as at least – as at least – you have to recognize that this indicator you have expressly missed, because it is obvious that the report is unravelled. As the report with the draft assumptions that we have presented, in which you, in a first-class parliamentary filibustering exercise, have tried to paralyze him and have not followed them, at the time of paralyzing him, nor his fellow parliamentarians around the ideological and pacts outside Catalonia. These assumptions are good assumptions, because they allow for an increase in expenditure of 5,000_million euros, because we move, in the field of investment, of public investment, which has a fundamental role in providing public benefits, in infrastructure, in healthcare, education, digital, communication and mobility infrastructure..., we move from 2,000 to nearly 4,000_million euros of investment. They are good assumptions, assumptions that serve to transform Catalonia. What you don't like is that this transformation of Catalonia, which we are already bringing to fruition, is a transformation into a social claus, to end inequalities, and also into an economic claus, for the better of the product fabric; in a green claus, to face the transition in the climate change; in a feminist claus, also – also – to combat gender inequalities, and also transformation into a democratic claus, because instability has often been associated with the denial of conflicts. Conflicts need to be recognised and resolved democratically, which is what you still don't have after. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.101.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.102.0	Predictable, Mr. Aragonès. You keep playing the violin, like the Titanic orchestra. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.104.0	I follow, therefore, claiming what is the transformative role of these assumptions. Mr. Carrizosa, it's obvious that you're also predictable. You're still anchored in the crespacia legislature, which you tried to do from the last legislature, which gave you these spectacular recipes that you've got. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.105.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in plenary on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the need to open negotiations to other political formations for approval of the Generality's assumptions by 2022]] [[317-00074/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.106.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, do you want to assume 2022?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.108.0	Of course I do. Presumables that must be transformative, presumables that implement my commitments of the investment agreement, that have begun parliamentary processing and that we will work because they can be approved and come into force before the 1st generation of 2022.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.109.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.110.0	So you say yes, but it's that no one understands anything better, because we're on November 17th, you haven't raised the phone yet to call us, and it seems that you're the only president in the world who prefers to draw a minimum of accounts, if it's that you get it, that not some accounts, some assumptions with a general support, when, besides, you know that we're offered to negotiate, as we already did in 2020, and above all because this time there are no assumptions at all, because we think that the situation deserves it. Besides, I have the feeling that his government is the only one who hasn't yet realized that this isn't about independence or independence. There should be a single front, a common front for economic recovery and the transformations the country needs. Clearly, there are no resources, but there is no ambition in its premise; clearly, they are expansive, because money comes from all sides, but they are neither inclusive nor transformative. And, if we look at it, it's incomprehensible for you to spend three times as much money on Hard Rock as on industry, but it's also because the resources for mental health are insufficient, not to mention the public dentist and also to make Catalonia a country of trains – you spend more money on investments in wagons than on trains. And neither do we understand her absence from meeting last week to defend the Mediterranean Corridor. So good is his government for half the effort it devoted to the expansion of the Prat airport, and now to the Olympic Winter Games, to making a fair ecological transition and to having more trains and more cheats. And so, president, I say to him: industry, public psychologist, public dentist, make Catalonia a country of trains and a plate of green barrels. I say this with all the humility of the world and also with the will to get better for the country, because Catalonia needs it, Catalonia deserves it. And, once and for all, we have to make the jump and let some assumptions stand in the way of the socio-vergent and conservative dynamics. There's no transformation into these assumptions, and that's why we want to help improve them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.112.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, on the investiture debate I said... the investiture debate is important, because it is expressed..., it is my compromise as President, it is the government program that I presented and for which this Parliament chose me as President of the Generality. In that investiture debate, I made it very clear that the majority in this chamber and the majority in a transformative key were present in the work. You, in these last days, have put on the table your willingness to work on the assumptions of the Generalitat de Catalunya without exclouring, therefore, the political forces that facilitated my investiture as President of the Generalitat. I, at the time, invited them to work together on this investiture; you were in your position. But that's the past. I propose that we work on this proposal of assumptions, that we know and that we talk about it, that we know and that we speak without exclusions of the trust of the government and of, obviously, the political forces that made possible that investment pact that incorporates in these assumptions, in transformative claus, in order to be able to face all the changes that the country needs. We want to face these assumptions, which are good assumptions for the country. You do understand that they are better. We believe, therefore, that there can always be things to discuss, but that they are good assumptions, assumptions in transformative claus. Therefore, let's talk about it, let's look at the possibility of expanding the majority that allowed the investiture with a larger majority so that we can facilitate this assumption. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.113.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the agreements of the United Nations Conference on Climate Change COP26]] [[317-00075/13]] The question is posed by Mr Dani Cornellà, Member of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.114.0	Thank you, President. President, a delegation from the Government of Catalonia, with you in the lead, attended COP26. How do you value the arrangements at Glasgow's summit?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.116.0	Thank you. Mr President, I believe that Glasgow's agreements for the states that have participated, therefore, in the formulation of these agreements are absolutely insufficient to meet the challenges we have to maintain this objective of a global escalation of not more than 1.5 degrees compared to the pre-industrial era. This will force us..., to go against these objectives requires a great transformation of the way we live, the way we have to produce and distribute and consume and, therefore, it is essential that we also mark these objectives on the table as well as the alternatives and the accompanying of all the people who can see their personal, working and, therefore, affecting very important sectors of the working class of the country, so that precisely this change can be made, this transition we can face and without making it easier for there to be speeches determined by the extreme right that benefit the reps that we have in relation to the climate change to break even more our society. In this sense, therefore, you have been putting to completion important proposals in the field of fighting climate change, which I must listen to, which I must attend to and which we are obviously in a position to agree on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.117.0	To answer that question, Mr. Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.118.0	Thank you. Well, satisfied, therefore, that we share this dissatisfaction with the non-binding agreements, therefore, that have come close to the differences..., for over 197 countries, therefore, these last few days. As you know, we also attended this summit, at COP26, but we also attended the popular counter-cinder that was organized in the city. And the results make us feel bad and very much, as we see the ecological entities, but not just them, but also all the expert people negatively value the summit. Because they tell us, therefore, that they have made very poor commitments and many of them in no case are binding, as well as living a climate emergency situation. We understand, therefore, that it is necessary to take drastic decisions to move forward, and we find ourselves with you agreements to try only to limit global warming to one degree and a half, thus reinvigorating the agreements that were already made in Paris in 2015. It's like, we're in 2021 and they're talking to us again, so we're going to look for 2015, six years ago. So that's how this world goes. But also at the summit it was mentioned to reduce the use of fossil fuel, it was talked about withdrawing subsidies to these, gradually eliminating the carbon or the fi of deforestation by the year 2030, but without concreteizing. Therefore, they do not give us solutions and constantly incomplete the agreements entered into in previous COPs, also with the countries of the global south, to which many million are promised and systematically incomplete, right? It's surprising, so, as in the end, at the countertop, that it's the people's, it's clear that they have to make ambitious decisions and for everyone. Just to finish, therefore, ask that they do not pull the towel, that we are still in time, that they have not done things well, but that... (The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the orator and this continues to speak for a few moments.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.119.0	Time's up, Congressman. [[Some applause.]] To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.120.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, I think I agree... I agree with you that ultimately the agreements reached in Glasgow are insufficient for all the changes we have to face. Before that, the question is what to do, what we have in our hands in order to help redirect this situation. We're neither a state nor a superpower that can breed, so the countries that today are still holding back some of these changes. But we can make alliances, and precisely one of the tasks we did in Glasgow was to build alliances in the Under2 Coalition, which is a coalition of more than one hundred and sixty state and sub-state governments, where the government of Catalonia is now included, and precisely what we want to do is go further than where the states did not want to arrive. Because we are very aware that the fight against climate change is a fight of global character, but that it needs immediate transformations in the domestic environment, in the local environment. And that these could not serve for anything if there was also a transformation, as I said, of global character. Precisely because of this, alliances, civic alliances of social movements are important, but also the alliances of compromised governments in the fight against climate change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.121.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the ideological instrumentalization of education]] [[317-00076/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga, of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.122.0	Mr Aragonès, how long are they going to continue instrumentalizing education in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.124.0	Wrong question. Education in Catalonia is not instrumental. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.125.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.126.0	Mr Aragonès, separatism has always used education as a method of indoctrination of the youngest. Since Mr Pujol's time, one government after another has perverted a key institution in our society to impose its ideology, to persecute the dissident and to modify history at his will. And your government wasn't going to be any less, was it, Mr. Aragonès? These days we have met two new abuses of liberty in the classroom. Firstly, the creation of a commission to control the use of Spanish in classrooms. And, on the other hand, the promotion of a program of sexual indoctrination by the council of Feminism. Everything, while you have put forward budgets that perpetuate political spending through the million-dollar financing of an countless number of feminist, climate or separatist chiringuites. A millionaire party, paid out of the pocket of all Catalans, while you are unable to guarantee a prosperous and free future for your children. Education, Mr Aragonès, is a fundamental pillar which must be strengthened, which must be ensured that it fulfils its objective and that it must regain, once and for all, its fundamental role as a social lift. But that, you do not care, because the future of young Catalans matters very little, and you have shown it. The young Catalans deserve to have work opportunities, decent wages and not to endure a forty_per_cent youth unemployment. They deserve a quality education system, which guarantees teaching in Spanish and not inspectors in schools at the service of the government's deviations, Mr Aragonès. They deserve safe neighborhoods where to grow, with quality public services and not streets taken by MENAs, occupied buildings and narcopies. They do not deserve, Mr Aragonès, a counselor like Mr Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, who should have been removed from office for months and who, from here today, I ask him to cease immediately. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.128.0	Well, the first conclusion, after this intervention, is 'congratulations, counselor; congratulations to hear the education... [[applause]] , congratulated to hear education as a key tool for the training of children and young people in this country, that we must not increase the quality of the first stages of life. That's why, free of child 2, of the second infantile course – the P2, as we say before – so, in these assumptions; that's why, an inclusive school bet, and, for that, also, a value teaching bet. What I'm surprised is that Mr. Garriga, after seeing many of the news we know these days, and they are also aware that many are not public, sexual assaults, believe that we don't need to do an education in value to the young people of our country. Of course I do. And confuse what is the promotion of the Catalan with an obsession to remove the castle, say a lot of you; say a lot of you, as understand the Catalan language in a position always subordinated, in a subordinate position, and not as the language of cohesion, as the language of the country that this Parliament recognizes and that obviously there is a broad consensus around it. We will continue to defend the school as a tool for the empowerment of the citizenry, because we know that a school that forms a citizen in the free is the best guarantee of a just society and a free society. And when you're equal and try to pose – and he does it as insult, doesn't he? – the compromise in the fight against climate change, the compromise in the feminist struggle and the defense of freedom and independence of Catalonia..., when all this, therefore, embolizes and makes it serve as an insult, it is for us the best load of energy to continue with our work with more conviction than ever. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.129.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the need to secure the majority that allowed the investiture for approval of the Generality's assumptions by 2022]] [[317-00077/13]] The question is posed by Mr Albert Botet..., Batet, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.130.0	There are Botets and Batets, President. (Laughter.) Many honourable president, president, members of the government, deputies and deputies, politics is responsibility, and Catalonia needs assumptions. I need your people, I need businesses, and I need the country's conjunction to overcome a very difficult pandemic crisis. And in this sense the Government has done the work; from the hand of the Councillor Turned, the Government has done a lot of good work. Because they are good assumptions to promote social and economic recovery, to ensure the state of welfare and to encourage business activity. Despite the fiscal deficit and repeated state failures, they are the best possible assumptions, expansion, social and transformative. Therefore, they call assumptions from a social and economic point of view, but obviously also call assumptions from a political point of view. Because we cannot disregard the support of the larger independence majority in the history of this Parliament: seventy-four Members, seventy-four Members. That's why we understand that you, Republican Left, made the investment agreement with the CUP, and that's why we, together for Catalonia, made a parliamentary agreement with Republican Left. We are fifty-two per cent to make independence effective, but in order to move forward we need shared strategy, yes, but we also need assumptions. Strategy and assumptions. Let's play fifty-two percent, president. For this reason, we call for responsibility, the responsibility we apply to ourselves, but we also ask all the independent forces. And in this sense, President, you have the greatest responsibility, and we celebrate that you have been directly involved in the negotiations as we have asked for from Juntes per Catalunya. And in this sense, however, and after the statements that we have heard in this control session that occurred to other unrecognized majorities of parliament, we would like to know what its value is in keeping with what has made this legislature possible, which is a fifty-two-per-cent independenceist force to advance towards the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Batet, this is a good proposition for assumptions. It has been working with assumptions, as you said, that when you look at the numbers, the content, and on my condition of ex-economic advisor, I think they are very positive assumptions, which allow you to make a leap forward in the reversal, consolidate maximum levels of social spending and, in many cases, increase them. Therefore, absolutely necessary assumptions, also in the situation in which we have the country; a country that curses to rebuild itself after a pandemic of covid-19 that has left, from the social point of view, economic, in the public services also, and from the emotional point of view, many and many reptes. And we have to do it together. And that's why you have my commitment that I will work until the last second to get the majority that allowed my investiture as president is also a majority in favor of this project of assumptions. That's what we've spent the last few months, the last few weeks, and especially the last few days. We are a plural and diverse majority, and therefore this forces us to give in, forces us to plant reptes. I know, therefore, that the People's Unity Candidacy..., my commitment to work, therefore, so that we can have a good agreement and that it is a positive agreement, not a forced agreement, but a positive agreement. And, therefore, we have to work with this option, reinforcing it also with proposals that do not exclose that this option can pull forward. And I think that's very important. There is one who would want this diversity of independence to be used to break it. And I think that we, from shared responsibility – and my particular responsibility, that I assume it, therefore, the greatest responsibility –, we need to make this diversity an act. And, therefore, the steps forward, the actions and omissions of the own days are very important; let us bear in mind that in no case should they imply an exclusion of this majority that allowed my investiture, of this independenceist majority. And, in this sense, they have my commitment since today and for what remains of the legislature. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.133.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the need to maintain the alliance that allowed the investiture to be based on the approval of the Generality's assumptions by 2022]] [[317-00079/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Marta Vilalta, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you. President, this has been presumptuous today. We are certainly not yet where we would like to be; we are at a point of uncertainty for what it does to the processing and approval of the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for the coming year. And what we're trying to do is unlock this situation, trap and straighten out this impasse. Why? So because these assumptions are necessary and these assumptions are good accounts. In fact, they're certainly not the assumptions that this country's people deserve, because they're putting together the assumptions of a Catalan republic – and we know that, even so said the own economic advisor – but they're good and they're needed. They are expansive accounts with a clear social and transformative vocation. And these assumptions are the best instrument we have at hand now to put it in the service of the citizenry and the country. And we want to approve them with most of the investiture, because these assumptions are the realization of those investment agreements, those agreements that we made between the forces that represent fifty-two percent of the country and that we defend the Catalan Republic project through self-determination and amnesty. And at this point, knowing for sure that we are against clockwork, we also believe that we are still in time. And we're here with the will to explore the margin of negotiation with the CUP. We must be able to take advantage of this opportunity that we have at our hands, also this presuppositional opportunity, to set out towards the transformation that the country needs. We agreed on social and economic transformations that are a starting point, and the path, in fact, is walking. We need these assumptions to make them, these transformations; time to be able to execute them, and the political majorities with which we gave the investiture to be able to shield them, these transformations; a majority, of course, of left and independence. And that won't change. Maintaining the majority of the investment on the basis of the presuppositionary project is logical, it has felt and is the political priority of the Republican Left. And we take it and we know it's for this government, too. In fact, it is the best way..., to keep these majorities is the best way to ensure that there are no storms" socio-vergents or conservative alliances that stop the new stage that the country has begun to walk. And that's why we need to hear each other, because we need to get back here so we can get back out there and win the country we want. And that's what we're working on, President. And we show him all our support from loyalty and respect, and he has us at his side to make this processing and these assumptions possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.136.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. These assumptions are assumptions of transformation, assumptions that apply and incorporate the measures of the agreements that allowed my investiture as President of the Government of Catalonia; an investiture, more – I said at the time – that, based on the independenceist majority, shouts out to all those who here share the will of transformation, of resolution of the political conflict in democratic claus, of the liberation of the retaliatory persons, and with this will of transformation and of social, economic and environmental compromises with the future of the country. I think we have the opportunity on our own days to leave without arguments those who expect independence to be unable to be the basis of this majority in this Parliament. And, therefore, this needs a very important effort, an effort that we would devote all the time, all the energy in our own days. We've come a long way. I think that, from the beginning of September until today, it has gone forward and built consensuses that make the assumptions a better tool, and that we must continue to do so. And we'll keep doing it on our own days. Always leaving the door open, precisely, to the agreement, and to the agreement of this independenceist majority that it also has this opportunity to become its own and to become protagonist of these presuppositions of transformation. I think that's absolutely key. Because we're on the first assumption of this legislature. And that also has an impact on the course, on the orientation. And six months ago, when I presented myself in this chamber as a candidate for the presidency of the Generality, I assumed the compromise of the transformation of this country, of the resolution of the conflict with the State on the basis of self-determination and amnesty, to promote the four transformations: social, green, feminist and democratic; making it from these majorities and, obviously, always extending the hand to all those who want to join in this key. Those who want to break, those who want to divide, those who want to use the current situation to make independence impossible, will not find, either by active or passive, or by action or omission, our complicity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.137.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the use of the Squadron Cosos in negotiations for the approval of the Generality assumptions by 2022 and the possibility of a meeting with the Government to unlock these negotiations]] [[317-00078/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.138.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Aragonès, I know that you are concerned about the security and coexistence of Catalonia. I think you're a man of order. Also to Councillor Elena, who has a fluid dialog with Councillor Swordler. Certainly, Councillor Elena, congratulated for the increase in resources agreed with the Government of Spain. It's good news, and it's a step forward. I know, Mr Aragonès, that you also have the logical concern, a logical concern, of having some assumptions in Catalonia. And I saw that one of the groups with whom I was negotiating – I don't know if I'm still doing it – the assumptions for the coming year are asking for it as long as the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. Mr. Aragones, will you accede to this petition?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.140.0	We defend the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, a public service of quality. For this reason, the Police of the Generality of Catalonia needs all the resources, the best tools and the best protocols of action to act in this service; these assumptions work in this line, and this is the government's compromise, obviously.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.141.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.142.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aragones, the Squad moss cannot be the currency of change of assumptions. Nor can it be economic recovery; nor can it be economic recovery with social justice. A few country assumptions, not blocks; a few assumptions throughout the country, not a block of the country. Mr. Batet, with whom many things differed, spoke, said that politics is responsibility. You're right. And I don't know if, despite the differences – that there are many – that we have..., I think we could agree on what the concept of political responsibility means. By political responsibility I asked him this morning, and I repeat this petition, a meeting – I speak on behalf of the first group of this chamber –; a meeting to study and explore the possibility of country assumptions, for all, because folds can face the challenges that Catalonia has and avoid the risks, which are also, at very exceptional times. We can finish this control session, Mr. Aragonès. I think rooting isn't bad. You've left the dialog many times. You had a chance to practice it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.143.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.144.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Illa, I knew your proposal; I could see it for the communication media; then, after a few minutes, the formal petition came to us. You and I don't share a country model. And my commitment to this Parliament was an investment program that incorporates these assumptions. And these assumptions are important for all the challenges we have right away; they are important, too, because they are the first assumptions of the legislature and because they indicate very clearly where we want to take it. And I don't want to change that direction. So I'm willing, always, you know, to find us, but I think I can move on to what my position will be. And my position is that the direction of the legislature is the direction I marked in the investiture, and therefore the social and economic transformation of the country, the green transformation, the feminist transformation, the democratic transformation, the absolute compromise with the defense of the right to self-determination and amnesty as mechanisms for resolving the political conflict with the State. I'll keep them. And therefore, I know that you have expressed it publicly, your spokesman has done it repeatedly, so I think more like a wish, rather than an accredited finding, the fact that you want to see the independence majority broken. So what I'm saying is that I'm going to work until the end of the day because those investment commitments that allowed the support of seventy-four Members of this chamber, one of the highest support of the last decades, so precisely they're the basis for this presupposition agreement. We can find each other, but I think I can already venture my proposal. Because in politics I think we all agree that there is no free and that what today may seem to extend tomorrow is a price that implies the resignation of some of the positions that I defended in this chamber, and that it is my contract with the people of Catalonia. Still, willing to talk to us. You always know, therefore, my phone soap and the doors of my office are open to all democratic parties in this chamber. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.145.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day, the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months and of the commissions. [[Composition of the months of the commissions]] And in accordance with Article 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition must be communicated to the Plenary. As the composition is included in the plenary file and has been distributed to all Members, I urge them to complete their reading. [[Pause.]] [[Proposal to modify the scope of competitions set out in Resolution 10/XIII, creating parliamentary commissions]] [[252-00009/13]] In addition to Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we would move to the next item on the agenda, the proposal to modify the scope of competitions set out in Resolution 10/XIII, on the creation of parliamentary committees. The Bureau of Parliament, at the sitting held on 20 July 2021, and after listening to the Spokesman's Board, agreed to propose to the plenary the allocation to the Committee on Social Rights the areas of competence of the Committee on Digital Policy and Territory to which the plenary's file also refers. Then, as agreed at the Spokesman's Board, there is no provision for the intervention of parliamentary groups at this item on the agenda and we will only proceed to the vote. I ask the Members whether they can approve this proposed amendment with their consent. [[Pause.]] They're telling me they don't. Therefore, we call again for a vote. [[Long break.]] So the vote begins. The proposal to change the scope of the powers set out in Resolution 10/XIII, establishing parliamentary committees, was adopted with 103 votes in favour, 20 votes against and 8 abstentions. We'll take a two-minute break to get the syndic and we'll start with the presentation of the next item on the order of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.146.0	Please, if the deputies are occupying their seats... [[Report of the Syndic of Greuges to the corresponding Parliament in 2020]] [[360-00039/12]] Let's move to the fourth point of the order of the day, the presentation of the report of the Synod of Greuges to the Parliament corresponding to the year 2020. And, before starting this point, I'd like to say hello on behalf of the chamber to the heavyweight syndic and members of your team who are accompanying you today. According, therefore, to Article 181 of the Rules, the syndic of heaviness will present a general summary of the report. Tea, therefore, says the Lord Rafael Ribó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.147.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to present the elements we consider to highlight on the annual report for the year 2020. With an early warning: it is one of the many reports that is made to the institution of the Syndic of Greuges and that I can go presenting in this chamber thanks to the collaboration of all advisors, advisors, technical teams, administrators, adjuncts that I have, without which it would be impossible for me to speak rigorously about certain subjects. I am saying this because, moreover, it is very possible that in the course of the interventions there are references to themes that I do not have time or would like to highlight in this intervention, but I do want to remind everyone that many of the themes, and even some of them very punishing, are developed even with monographic reports. I say this, for example, because when I present the 2020 report to you, delivered to the chamber at the beginning of 2021, as we did a year ago, it is obvious, I have to say, you are very marked for the covid. But I also have to add, following the argument that I have used to the principle, that you have a monographic June 2020 report and various partial reports produced from all the activities, visits, analyses, meetings, contacts that we have been doing and that we are still doing on this subject. To the band that there are annual reports that are required by law: that of the mechanism of prevention of ill-treatment and torture, that of the rights of childhood, that of the evaluation of transparency and access to information, and the multiple other reports on, as I have mentioned, covid, housing, social issues, etc. They also have a chapter on the report, extensive, on the figures – there will be practically no people in there –; they grew up. We could say that 2020 was a reminder. I'm sorry to have to say it was a reminder. I would like to say again in this chamber..., so much good can be said: « Lower the name of the complaints that the Synod of Greuges reprehensible; it would be a good sign. But it was a reminder. And it is for reasons of the gravity of the crisis that is still more evident from the covid. And I am starting precisely with this crisis by making a warning that it is in the report and the multiple reports, and that it continues to feel necessary and that it should be the north, in my modesty to understand, of all the Members and Members. Of the three columns that allow a society to be fully free and democratic that depend on public investments, we need to make much greater efforts of better, more inversion and more development: that of salvation, education and social services. I could say that in greeting Catalonia we enjoy a principle sufficiently developed of equity. I could say that in education we enjoy a principle not so developed, but in time, and in some way fractured, of equity. We don't like people on the sidelines of social rights. Social policies, which include health, education and all other social issues, from housing to aid, social transfers and a wide range of activities, represent around forty per cent of the work, complaints, and official activities at the Greuges Syndic of the year 2020. And, obviously, in the first place, covid, the right to salvation. And I don't just covet, but because the people we live in Catalonia can all enjoy free and free access to the salvation service. In the right to health we recognise in the 2020 report the huge report that the professionals of all our institutions and health claims have made. I was honored and greeted by those who accompanied me to visit with hospitals in Catalonia a year ago building ICUs later this week – I do so because it was pissing on the piss – in a way absolutely with great celerity, but improvised, because no one knew what was coming to us in the world, and it is obvious, the result of unforeseenness, but also of uncertainty, how it happened to the whole planet..., of the effort that was made, that provoked, as everyone remembers, those applause that is done on the evening for all those professionals. This shows a need for better. There is much more pressure for salvation; there is much more pressure – because everything can be written in euros – for salvation if we really want to keep the principle of fairness up in a public service accessible to everyone in health, without social or territorial inequalities, and that obviously we are today, but we must go to them every time closer. And this means that we are far more likely to have much more human resources, much more material resources, a better return on these human resources – we are far far behind in comparison to health assumptions and respect for the GDP of other parts of Europe – infrastructure, to stimulate exclusive dedications of the best practices and health personnel to our public service, and, obviously, to a greater investment in primary care and other phenomena that go around this picture or screen that has placed the covet on us, such as a combination of chronic pathologies, such as the aging of the population with what we have of the increase in life expectancy, such as the reorganisation of our centres. I do, therefore, a very strong cry in favour of this reversal in salvation that I also allow us to what we now have to readapt, which is, that the band of the covid, for which we are much more prepared, starting with an excellent vaccination policy, that we have time and means to go to recover all the people that... – produce from urgency, that we have dedicated even to saving lives; who does not...? I have friends who have died as a coven – so, to recover the normal sequence and increase the attention rate for reasons of diagnosis as well as for reasons of intervention – to call them lists of hope – and to respond to what is primary care, where it practically suppressed faceality and was replaced by very effective instruments, but we would have to reorganize with media for this issue, and obviously with a very important focus on mental health. We noticed them warning about the child's mental salvation of ugly years, we warn them even more strongly about respect – I refer to the name of complaints and actions we have to do since the Synod – but now of mental salvation in general. It is clear that on the eve of the issue of health and of the subject, directly from other social aspects, the 2020 report enters, like other monographic reports, into the question of residences, the need to review them. It is essential to review the current model of residences – or care for large people, much wider than residence – and not confuse attention to large people with how we store them in a place that should be space to live. And there are other forms of living space that are not directly the residences. But to review the model of residence, look at the structures, the measures, the attention – the social care and the medical care –, the human resources, the professional ratios, the remuneration to these professionals and their training, their relationship with families and their surroundings, and how to develop alternative resources. I am telegraphic; they have everything, I repeat, in the report and in monographic reports. The right to education with the pandemic has put us in evidence, from the closure of centres, once more, one of the brets that respects fairness, which is the digital bretsa, and the difficulty of getting there all the time with the same media, and therefore with the same guarantees of the right to education. The number or education problem in Catalonia is, in the sense of doubt, and at years of distance, school segregation. We have no guarantee, nor much, that our people's equity respects what the education system is, at all its levels. And this should also be a basic goal for a government, going to close the school segregation a little bit, which showed it even more when we had to close the schools, and as I said, starting with digital bretxa, it again showed it. It is important to take much more account of what centres with high complexity mean, what school attendance means in these centres – so much better than one day, and forgive me for saying this to the gross, that the best schools in the best places, which would be used to raise this category with respect to equity – family support, educational plans around, social education intervention services, and above all, to combat what may have been made worse, absenteeism and disconnection, celebrating that the schools, as recommended by the Synod, the institution, from the beginning of the pandemic, are not tankers, and they must know that they have been reopened in a short time. To the social world I want to start for a defense of entrepreneurship in Catalonia. That I'm saying because a lot of people who worked and had a chance to make a living, lost it to the covid, a lot of people who didn't have a perspective in many years of a similar situation. They enabled things such as the vital minimum ingredient – very poorly distributed and very poorly distributed – or the guaranteed income also completed its function even when it came to being able to do so, or what the ERTOs mean and need to know how to bring them back for this defence of entrepreneurship. In general, there has been a lack of sufficient aid in the social world, or there have been problems of processing promoted by the various administrations, starting with the Generality, which is partly incomprehensible, which, for bureaucratic reasons, does not come about very quickly, from the use of an instrument as important as all these social transfers. They should be much more agile and sufficient at the time of their front. And the crisis in the social world has exposed us to something that should be a buffet for everyone living in Catalonia: housing. Housing, which is a right, and which is a solemn right to declarations of universal rights, in European agreements, to the Spanish Constitution and to our Statute, today is an emergence. And the syndic said that it was the fate of the various governments in Catalonia to create a single register of demand for housing, because there was dispersion; to create after that a single register of offer of housing, because there was dispersion; but now this is already in the months of emergence, that is not that it is dispersed, they are radically weary. And we expect them to go from one to two years... of emergency! And perhaps they have confided – and I forgive the critics of this form – that housing is only a social issue. Habitating is a deep-rooted country policy issue, from the urban agenda, which is a great instrument of territorial rebalancing for everyone– for everyone, for middle-class leaders, for lower-level leaders–, as well as to attack a part of the issue of habitating, which is the housing of emergence, the denunciation, the radicality of these protests. This is a subject, totally agreeable, and very social, but it has a much more macro-social dimension to count on housing, as do the most advanced countries, as a tool to rebalance the territory, to rebalance socially and to meet this demand for the vast majority of social heads, not just those who are at risk of losing something as important as housing. In the report we have a great deal of emphasis on dealing with the urgency, the housing of the emergency, and we are calling for a national pact in this matter. A pact against segregation has been created, and we are not very satisfied. It's contradictory, it's hard to move it forward, we sit on an extremely opposed table in interpretation of how education should be, but we find the common denominator. There are very few exceptions that do not follow in the table. It has to be the same with housing. I know it's a contradictory subject, but the figures are very striking. We are very far from the means of democracy or freedom systems with which we want to compare ourselves. Everyone's in charge here. We have, sometimes, complained from the syndicate of extreme measures, which we have not yet managed, like that Sareb returns a share of the most valuable that it has acquired from the benefit that was provided when the banks were cleared with more than 60,000_million euros; I return because we govern like the Generality or as the local authorities have more instruments of collaboration. But much more than that, which is the chronology, it would be useful to think of something that has no solution for tomorrow – you will lie to the ruler who says that will solve tomorrow's habitat – that has solutions many years ago, which began with a national habitation pact. In this social space I want to talk about the trench. I have heard a question about transfers or subsidies to third-sector entities before I took part in this Chamber. They wanted to open the zoom, not from the third sector to the table, named the third sector, but to the social section. In the middle of the cove there were public servants who were shut down. And they locked up for reasons that were obvious, maybe, pandemic control, for, for, for extreme measures... the ones that didn't lock up are the ones that work in the trench. They were in the trench. And they are entities that have been present in the trench for many years, and they are entities, most of them, of private origin, that do a great public service and that would require greater political attention to these. You know, the President of the Generality – because as Vice President and President-in-Office, he then accepted the repte that was raised by the syndicate, to meet with the Social Emergencies Table that created the syndicate – who are the three great distances that are set up by the people of the trench, who are, first of all, the most urgent things, which need to continue to be urgent today; things that affect structural reforms in the medium term, and things that affect legislative protection and the assumption of these same entities. I must say with satisfaction that in a few weeks and days we will be reunited with the President of the Generality and his Government, the most or the most in these subjects, the Social Emergencies Table of the Syndicate. I wouldn't just want to make a Social Emergencies Table. I pass because they give us a lesson in fair social policies, equality and cohesion, and that, therefore, this third pot, on the most punishing part, could be well treated by the public authorities. They have tripled or quadrupled the effort. And it could start with the theme of food, or it could start with food, which has to be tripled or quadrupled, and this has to be improvised, again. No one predicted that the covid and its effects would come, that they would continue and that they would last. These were making the effort to quadruple it. Still on the covid, a lesson that we have not after – I forgive that I continued a little in critical plan – that of the better quality of life in the medium. The coven surprised us all: "Oh, dear, now the contamination is down! We're, at this point, looking at twenty-five percent more of the private cars than there were before the coven. It's a contradiction. I only quote the topic of private cars, because in reverse, in change, there is a great deal of public transport use. And it should be two very important bets; if not, learn this lesson at the territorial scale of what Catalonia means. But they may be losing the opportunity to create a much more sustainable reality in politics, much more so and sustainable in climate action, but not just in climate action, as if the sea level will rise or not rise a_meter at the end of the decade. No, no, In all that is politics in general, as we introduce a much deeper culture of thinking: "We are on a planet that there is only one and in a Catalonia that there is only one and that we do not have an alternative to this. Look, I was in the Ebre Delta yesterday – I've often gone through this example – where I met with a lot of organized people, some from the local government; others, together with these, from the so-called "consensus table", with whom the government of the general government also met; others, other entities that have no institutional character. A mobilization that grew, social, for all those who are aware that it is an exhibition, that territory, that it would be useful to make, regardless of what the evolution of the climate change itself is. And precisely for this reason, for which it would be useful to act, not from inaction. Say: "No, listen, it's the Filomena, or it's the rising of the sea level or it's... Even with things as simple as carrying tons of smile from an end of the Banya to the place that is needed. They're there and they just have to move them. Start with the simplest. There's a lot of talk going on with these people. And ask the President of the Generality and the Government of Catalonia to go much further in this dialogue with them and with the Spanish Government; the Spanish Government to whom the European Commission is opening its doors for the failure of things that are pending on the deterioration of what that part means, so it is biodiversity and the Natura 2000 Channel. But, in between, the Government the Generalitat can do not only by bridge but by impulse; first to listen to that people and, secondly, to relate them to the Spanish Government. We are aware that a bilateral commission has been set up between the Government of the Generality and the Spanish Government. They invite the people of the consensus table to participate in it and to be able to emit, from proximity and immediate concern, which means. And I could give a lot of other examples for the territory to Catalonia. We need to listen much more to the territory, also on this subject, on the subject that we do have an urgent assignature with what it is, not preservation, the balanced development of our own territory. In the report you will also find a set of administered recommendations, especially those that have been interrupted or that have changed the terms to process procedures or that have been created and have introduced the previous quote, which is sometimes more than justified, but what cannot be a barrier to preventing the person who does not have the previous quote, who has not made the passes in respect, from accessing the public service. In this sense, the coward has again shown us a relative shame of us and our rulers. Don't properly register the people to Catalonia. The Basic Law of the Local Regime, 1985 – many years have passed since then – and there is a very clear definition of which is the obligation to flag. There is no search – I don't say this for you, in general, for our latitudes – excuses for a bad payer, gatherings of all colors, to avoid mastery. Even that's absurd, because it doesn't mean you're not giving the exact picture of the people you have in your own territory and it can affect, at all, the public transfers or social transfers that you can get under this heading. Apart from ignoring a basic right of the unregistered person, who will not be able to access certain services. It is in legislation, it is in legislation with a strong definition, so we have to say year 2020 that we will find again – origin and fruit of many of the other things that I have mentioned, of social imbalances – the non-registration of significant parts of our own population. And in a space of rights I have to refer to how in the states of alarm there was obviously an erosion of the right of assembly and the right of manifestation, when, especially the principle of the pandemic, it is answerable, without consideration, with prohibitions on the exercise of these rights. After learning and seeing the importance of keeping the thick definition of these rights – these are the most important things we can enjoy as people in the 21st century – and as we have to consider those aspects that are inevitable. But I want to quote in this far from the right as the crisis of the coven has clearly committed racist abuse and violence against vulnerable women and collectivities, which have emerged much more than we have been accustomed to. The syndic has no data to say: "Before they were there and now they are there. I said that they emerged after the covid – during the covid and after the covid – with some figures that we were not used to. We welcome the fact that the Parliament, on 18 December 2020, unanimously approved the equal treatment law and non-discrimination, which establishes a regulation that we should apply among all. I finished the report, which I presented to you..., we finished the report with four alerts on the lessons after, on these three columns and the need to pamper them with political actions at all levels – and now I say with the opportunity, and if they want the opportunism, that they are discussing the assumption of the coming year. An alert note for what the crisis has brought to us – the crisis covid – means, that precariousness, poverty and vulnerability are much more obvious, and they will be even more so and that is not the responsibility of the government, the responsibility to not act before this evidence; they will be even more so, because they are deep structural themes. An alert letter about the natural environment of our country, of our habitat, of how continuing attacks from inaction to direct aggression in positive. And an alert on the rights and freedoms that with the state of alarm may have been touched. I wanted to tell you, again, that they have this chamber at their disposal the task that the Government has assigned us to the Structure of Human Rights in Catalonia, formed by the Institute of Human Rights and the Syndicate, on a human rights platform in Catalonia, 2020-2023. So good government and parliamentary groups fessin' on this floor a work tool. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.148.0	Thank you very much, syndic. Then, to fix his position, he has the word, for a limited time of two minutes per parliamentary group, according to the reduction of time we agreed on at the Board of Spokesmen, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress, Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.149.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, councillors and deputies and also good morning and welcome the syndic and his team to accompany you. The order of the day is to analyze the report respecting the activity of the syndic of the year 2020, a report, as he said, marked by the appearance of the pandemic in all sectors of our life and that has demonstrated the fevers of the public servants in Catalonia, fevers after suffering from two years of retailing. But this report is from another abnormal situation. His mission was carried out by a syndic with the mandate expired, but, moreover, questioned by a large part of the groups of the Parliament that, for us, this conditions his task in front of the institution and also this report. The syndic didn't mention it today, but, as they say in English, it's the elephant in the room. You, syndicate, quite rightly always place the speech in relation to your expired mandate and do so by transferring responsibility to the party of this hemisphere, responsibility that I do not deny, we have, but you cannot avoid your own and less lengthen the debate of your act as syndicate. As I said, we're in an unusual situation because you were chosen the year 2004 and, therefore, carries said years in the syndic's charge. If we take as reference the principles adopted for the Venice Commission in the year 2019, in the document entitled "Principles on the protection and promotion of the institution of the Ombudsman", in its article 10 says: "The mandate of the Ombudsman of the People will be longer than the mandate of the institution that appointed him. The term of office shall be limited preferably to one, without the possibility of re-election. In any case, the Ombudsman's mandate can only be renewed once. The single mandate will preferably not be established under the seven years. In other words, international law is very clear, that even limits the mandate to a sun; long, yes, but not without day, as you seem to expect. And more so if we take into account that the Catalan law itself already provides for the replacement of the syndic. But when I told him that this situation is anomalous, it's not just because of this question of expiring the mandate. For us, what's most important is that you've long lost the support of the chamber. I remind you that the figure of the syndic needs three-five-parts of the deputies, eighty-one deputies, which seems to me very much that he would not have, but of course what he would not have is the support of the Socialist Party, which he did have earlier. Unlike what would be normal in any country, which is not in favor of its continuity are opposition parties, and this fact is very significant. You're not exercising the political neutrality charge. On some occasion, you have skipped the ethical and moral rules to guide the syndic's pocket. It means very much that, with the control functions assigned, it only has at this time the gathering of the parties that support the Government. A lot of meaning. As shown, the large number of office reports referring to policies condemned for the events of September and October of the 17th, in which up to and including you to question the judicial resolutions. Because you asked for reports of offices in matters related to the process, our company, in the previous legislature, Marta Moreta, asked him on repeated occasions that you made specific and monographic reports on the violation of rights that he assumed, for half of the population of Catalonia, that use the names of laws of disconnection and declarations of independence – if they were – of the months of September and October 2017; reports that you have never issued. These are indeed reports on the scope of action attributed by the trustee, and not those that we have dealt with, for example, in the previous committee, in which you issue reports questioning judicial judgements of the Supreme Court. To the effect I remind you once again that the Venice Committee, in the text I mentioned earlier, in its previous section, says: "The competence of the Ombudsman in relation to the judiciary will be limited to ensuring the effectiveness of the procedure and the functioning of this system, is to say, in no case – in no case – not only for the defence of phonenal rights, it allows the Synod to monitor judicial resolutions, which you seem to want to do. There is someone who could think, I see that, in one of the worst economic moments of history, the Synod issues reports with political secrecy in relation to the process and puts in doubt the judgments of the courts, I repeat, there is someone who could think – and I believe that in a practical way – that there is a direct relationship in this way of proceeding with the fact that you said years ago that it is in the carrec. People with honor and institutional feeling must make the most honourable decision: resign. To resign, Mr Ribó. You're resigning for the sake of the institution. If you really consider yourself a person who leads the institution to your interests, you resign. But I wouldn't want to focus everything on her figure. As I used to say, I'm sure the year 2020 was the most atypical year of this country's recent history. A pandemic that has affected the lives of all the citizens of the country in a way that no previous crisis had caused, that has strained public services, that have had to respond to this flood of requests for services and economic help in an unforeseen and therefore unorganized way. Our group had already warned that the policy of retailing in people's services would provoke what has happened, a failure of the system, a fall in quality..., in the quantity of public services that affect the entire population, yes, but especially the most vulnerable. I'll focus on the three pots you had in your intervention, because obviously you had less time than you had. The report points out – even though I find it hard to say that in many cases it does not deepen – the lack of services as essential as social services, health services, where we all proved very difficult problems in the residences of large people, especially at the time of death and accompanying family members, mental health, access to social services, housing, access to primary care services. But I'll let you go over there. The problem is, in these and other aspects, that even though it is very difficult, unfortunately, the government has not been able to solve the deficiencies detected more than a year ago. It is necessary to recover the primary as well as the fundamental element of both the health system and the social service system, to get back from the presence to the visits, to have a new program contract with the joints, to end the waiting lists and, to do so, it is essential to provide. In this, surely, syndicate, it's the only thing we agree on. In the field of services, the report generally neither analyses the situation in Catalonia of guaranteed income from citizenship, which, while bearing four years from its establishment, the Government has not been able to apply in its totality. As clear as a given that you did not mention, it is that, according to the commission promoting guaranteed income, it is left out to set_de_de_de_de people who need it, 300,000 people. There are also many points in aid to local authorities and businesses which the Catalan Government introduced in the year 2020, aid which is done by non-competitive competition procedure and by chronological order of requests submitted until the expiry of the budgetary heading, which in any case meets criteria of objective need. Besides, there was a collapse on the department's website, the numbers were insufficient. A nyap that you almost don't mention in your report. The same could be said of the policy that was carried out with the management of the pandemic of the collection of people with physical and/or mental disabilities, which has been invisible. The government approved the protocol without taking into account the specific needs and equated them to people of the third age. The initial protocols were not disseminated in accessible formats, which left many people with no access to this information. Moreover, they are producing tanks of special work centers, of protected floors and of residences – it is true that basically they were the public. All this was done without alternative measures, without information to families and without planning. In education, the pandemic has led to an increase in educational inequalities in confinement for three reasons, all resulting from the great economic inequality that exists in Catalonia. First of all, and you're just doing this, because despite the efforts to support remote learning, many students didn't have access to the digital choice; but the digital choice wasn't the only reason. Secondly, it must be added that the educational and cultural capital of the families who had to assume it from their homes is not the same in all of them. But, besides, not all schools responded the same way before class suspension. All of this has in fact led to an imbalance in learning. Well, let's leave to comment on many issues, which we have little time, such as housing, pensions, equality, tax pressure, urban and environmental policies, mobility, consumption, university, citizen security, justice... that the government, in this legislature, has not been able to take. As I say, we have not focused exhaustively on these shortcomings. There are many aspects to improve, not all consequences of the pandemic, but all with a common denominator, which are public services that have deteriorated as a result of years of breakdown. In addition, the experience tells us that the new government has not learned from the mistakes of the past: we carry without presupposition and still do not guarantee the presupposition of 2022. In any case, syndicate, let me tell you that we believe very much in the union institution, but we believe that it is a neutral institution, which must be old for the interests of the citizenry in front of the administrative powers. And we are very surprised at the laxity of his criticism of the government for a management of essential services that in many respects has been and is deficient. And they surprise us even more with their resistance to letting go of the charge, because all the policies and those we devote to the administration, and the syndicate, we would have to make it clear that a public charge is not a job. You should be a neutral, respected and admired figure, far from what's happening now. Like I said before, you do the most honorable thing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.150.0	Thank you, Congressman. Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Sergio Macián, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.151.0	Thank you, President. Mr Ribó, first of all, I have to tell you that with the first part of the PSC's intervention I absolutely agree. And I want to make three other reflections about the figure of the Greuges Synod. The first one already knows it: that for us the Synod of Greuges is an absolutely indispensable and unnecessary duplicity; already there is a defender of the people who extends his function of constitutional guarantee to all Spain and in front of any Administration. In other words, any decision, abuse of power by an autonomous or local administration may be the subject of a complaint to and investigated by the Ombudsman. Therefore, the union is a redundant and unnecessary figure. Moreover, it is not only an unnecessary figure, but it is a very expensive duplicity and one frequently surrounded by scandals: almost 7_million_of_euros costs us the Synod of Greuges, the Catalans, and Mr Ribó is the defender, yes sir, who charges the most from all of Spain, more than 129,000_gross euros per year. Posts to duplicate an organism, they could at least be prudent on the economic issue and do something cheaper; but no, big deal. It is a moral indecency that in Catalonia – in Catalonia – all the institutions, from the president of the Government to the syndic, cover more than the president of the Government of Spain; it is a shame that the Generalitat is spent 42_million_de_euro, in these budgets, in more than five hundred high-ranking positions. Here we have already lost the north and the value of what things are; that is why the suffering Catalans beat us to taxes, we are the community with more taxes and with greater fiscal pressure. For what? To pay, among other things, institutions like the Syndic of Greuges, and to Mr Ribó, a salary of Bill Gates. [[Some applause.]] By the way, Mr Ribó, in addition to the water pool scandal that was built next to your office, I now splash another scandal that we met at the end of October last, and that, you, I understand, you must explain to Parliament. The Union of Accounts has detected several serious irregularities in the economic management of the Syndicate of Greuges during the financial year 2019. Among these irregularities, the union has indicated the separate recruitment of benefits that should have been the subject of a single contract. In other words, contracts were broken down to circumvent the advertising requirements of the tendering procedure, in breach of the law on public sector contracts. We think you should take advantage of your appearance to give some explanation around these alleged irregularities related to the fragmentation of contracts processed by the trustee. And thirdly, of the issues I want to remind you of: that the syndic increasingly proves to be a party institution, acting as the syndic of the process and not as the syndic of people. This was also recalled by the Member who spoke on behalf of the PSC. It is an extension of the separatist government and belt of transmission of its ideas, acts as the buttons of the government in support of its separatist approaches. And I'll explain it to you. Before yesterday, Mr Ribó, in the Commission of the Syndic of Greuges in which he appeared, he already presented to us a monographic report, also from 2020, on the judgment of the Supreme Court that condemned the coupsmen, Judgment 459/19; look, a report that you have made on your own initiative, without anyone asking you to do so, in which you dare to make statements such as that the sentence is disproportionate, that it violates the rights and freedoms of the convicted, that there is a political conflict between Catalonia and Spain, that the proven facts of the sentence are full of statements without evidence. I wonder: but who are you to comment on a court ruling, and, more, on our highest judiciary? I told you the other day. What legitimacy do you have in challenging a court decision? It was also recalled by the Member of the PSC. Look, article 3 of the syndic's law defines its scope of action, and says: "The syndic of Greuges supervises the activities of administrations, agencies, businesses and persons to whom article 78.1 of the Statute refers. Also, by agreement with the Ombudsman, he can also supervise the activity of the General Administration of the State in Catalonia. But nowhere is it said that the Syndic of Greuges is to supervise, it is to supervise the activity of the courts and tribunals. And you, in this case, are allowed to comment, devote a monographic report of more than forty pages to comment on whether or not the Supreme Court has done its job well. Look, the Supreme Court's ruling consists, as I have already said, of 492 folios, is impeccable, has been confirmed by the Constitutional Court in the forty-two times that rulings of the Supreme Court have been appealed throughout the course of the trial, and even Amnesty International, which is holy to your devotion, Mr Ribó, has said that it was a fair trial, with all guarantees. So who are you, I repeat, to come and question the Supreme Court with a report? What shows is that you are not the syndic of the people, you are the syndic of the process, you are the syndic of those condemned for the sentence of the process, and that, instead of defending citizens from abuse of power, you are dedicated to defending the powerful who commit such abuses and illegalities. You must resign, Mr Ribó, for dignity. [[Some applause.]] And from the report I would like to remind you that, in fact, the main issue that occupied us in 2020 was the pandemic, a real social and health drama that has hit us and continues to hit us now. But in 2020, the covid virus was a catastrophe. We will never forget the management of Mr Illa and neither of Mr Fernando Simón, stating that there would be no more than two or three cases diagnosed. They refused, at the beginning of the pandemic, to make PCRs; they refused the use of masks, antigen tests; they also refused to close Barajas airport, and, in the end, we led all the disastrous rankings: we were the record of the deceased, record of the infected and record of the infected. EPIs, masks, respirators were missing... And, in Catalonia, in addition, a new exercise of sectarianism was made almost criminal by preventing the army, the UME, from carrying out disinfection work in various senior residences. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And in Tarragona – yes, yes – and in Tarragona, I will remind you, at the Nostra Llar residence in Pallaresos, more than forty people died abandoned without being able to say goodbye to their families. At this point, syndic, I have not seen you and you have not been firm in defending our elders and our health professionals against the abandonment of the Government of Spain and the Government of the Generalitat. In the area of civil rights and public freedoms. There is a sentence in your report, on page 16 – I have already commented on it other times – which by itself also completely discredits you, as I have told you before, and shows that you always defend separatist theses in a shameful way. You say: "In the context of public freedoms, moreover, it continues to constitute a democratic hardship that the new people condemned in the Supreme Court's judgment to the case of the trial continue three years after the U of October deprived of freedom, which is why it would be appropriate to pass an amnesty law on these facts. Do you say that an amnesty law should be passed on these facts? Where are the impartiality, objectivity and independence to preside over their actions, as the syndic's law says? His postulates are never on the side of those who comply with the law, Mr Ribó, they are always in favor of the separatist rulers who fail to comply with it. Amnesty has no place in the Constitution and is a legal aberration, as they recognize professors of progressive criminal law, such as Enrique Gimbernat himself, known, as I say, for his progressive positions. Amnesty comes from the Greek term ‘amnesis and of course...', which means ‘forgotten, and we will never forget that these people committed the most serious crimes that can be committed in democracy, directly attacking the coexistence of all Catalans. With regard to the language rights of parents. Look, Catalan students have the right to receive during the compulsory stage a teaching that includes Spanish as a language in a reasonable proportion, not less than twenty-five_per_cent. This has been established by multiple resolutions that the Councillor of Education and the Generalitat are responsible for ignoring them over and over again, and they systematically fail to comply, and you know it, syndic, but look elsewhere. This is always said to you in the Commissions of the Greuges Syndic and never give us an answer. You should be on the side of people, especially on this sensitive issue that for many people it is a very important issue and that they do not denounce for fear of meaning being in schools and also fear of having reprisals in the educational center against their children. See, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has recently cancelled six educational projects for not including Spanish as a vehicle language: at the Escola Bogatell, Barcelona ; at the Escola Josefina Ibáñez, Abrera ; at the Escola Puig de les Cadiretes, Llagostera ; at the Escuela Frangoal, Castelldefels ; at the Escuela Aura, Reus ; at the Els Pallaresos Institute. What has to happen, syndic, for me to take letters on the matter and stop looking elsewhere? Whether this is a problem that up to fourteen entities have spontaneously been created in Catalonia by people who have systematically seen their linguistic rights violated. Up to fourteen associations. Do these people deserve the syndic to stand in defense of their individual rights in the face of the Generalitat's linguistic imposition? And, look, now too, Mr. Syndic – I'm telling you to go and meditate on this issue as well – comes another roller, which is the roller of ideological imposition on affective-sexual education in underage children's schools, with the Coeduca't program, subtracting parents from the constitutional right to morally educate their children. We hope that the syndic will take letters in the matter before this new blow of the Generalitat. [[Some applause.]] And finally, Mr Ribó, recapacitate, dignify the institution he represents, with issues such as those he has mentioned of the Ebro Delta or the entities of the third sector, where he will always find us; he exercises his functions with impartiality, objectivity and independence, as required by article 2.3 of the syndic's law, and becomes once and for all the syndic of all Catalans and ceases to be the syndic of process and separatism. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.152.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.153.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, first of all, thank you, syndicate, to you and your entire team for your presence today in Parliament and for the report you have submitted to us. You know that you, your team and your institution have our recognition, our thanks and our support for the quantity, the quality and the focus of your task, your work and your intervention, unfortunately – we also have to assume it and recognise it – the incompetence of most parliamentary groups to agree on the network that has long been in place, as you agree, in the exercise of your duties. And we want to highlight this recognition and this gratitude for his influence on the defence of rights, of fundamental rights; for his influence on the witnesses against repression and on the denunciation of repression; also for his international task, for his international incidence, and, as always, we do not want to forget a task to which we will have to give a special impulse, beyond his mandate, such as the structure of human rights. Well, before entering into the detail of his report, I would like to place what we consider to be the context, the scenario, the framework in which his report is produced and to which his report refers. It is no coincidence that, as you have pointed out, the demands of year 2020 are highly focused on social problems; forty per cent, as you have pointed out, refer to social problems. Indeed, if we refer to other data that can complement and help us to explain or interpret this enormous fact of the incidence of social claims in your report, we can find various sources and they all end up at the same place. I'll just summarise and summarise some of them. According to UNICEF, at our home the poor child up to 33.4_per_cent of the population, around more than 450,000 people among children and adolescents in our country find themselves in a poor situation. The poor energy, we could conclosure, according to data from various sources, that up to 18.7_percent of the world's energies; an 18.7_percent of the world's energies in a poor energy situation. It's a huge amount of data. And, according to the Idescat, in the period 2017-2020, we actually find ourselves with an increase in the poverty index in our country that would place us, the year 2020, in a 21,7_per_cent, but, if we look at the size that this has in the women, we are almost in the thirty_per_cent, and in the young, over the twenty-i-five_per_cent. If we look at the children's population, also various fonts, like now the Instituto d'Estudis Regionales Metropolitans de Barcelona, which has just published some very relevant data in this sense..., the children's population, also: coincides with the data of the thirty-four_per_cent of the poor index; the young, the twenty-i-sis_per_cent. And we want to point out that, according to these data that I have just mentioned, from the Institute of Regional Studies, obviously the migrant population concentrates about forty-nine_per_cent of this poor situation; but it is that workers, in general, not qualified from the industry, thirty-one_per_cent; those from the service sector, twenty-one_per_cent, and small businesses and self-employed workers, the twenty-nine_per_per_cent – a collection that together has reduced the deu_per_cent of their admissions. Therefore, this poor, this increase in poverty and precariousness so high if we compare data from 17 to 20 and concentrate on data from 20, has a clear bias, has a clear bias, which affects more negatively, which generates a clear negative discrimination against women, against young people, and has a clear class bias, which deepens the class inequalities in our country. That brings us to a very clear conclusion. Let's face it, let's face it: Catalonia at this point is not an advanced country in terms of human and social development; let's put the globe, please, eh? , we come out of this dream: Catalonia today is not an advanced country, it is not a developed country in terms of which are the commonly accepted criteria, for example the criteria for human and social development of the United Nations. Nor is it a country, real and strict, democratic, because there can be no democracy if there is no justice and there is no equality at the social level. Indeed, years of retailing and public policies of "socio-vergency", a crisis in which always – always – the rich are more wealthy and the poor are poorer, have created a society and a country in which Europe makes inequality. And this, unfortunately, has no face to change. Why? Because the development model for which this government's institutions are chosen and most of this Parliament's parties deepens into the same crisis and the same development model, the same development model that is bringing us to this situation of growing inequality and crises. The policies that are planted are not only insufficient to reverse the situation, but also to deepen the same model of development that has brought us to this situation. Very quickly. You, in your report, talk about the context of the covid and assign it, among other things – I can't be systematic in the time that remains –, deficiencies in the health system and the residences of the great people. Here we have to say that the model is the problem. The details that have accumulated over these decades and that have been especially difficult when we have encountered the response to the situation of the covid..., may say that the details kill, the details generate risk situations and vulnerability that generate dramatic consequences, but it has a model, also in the case of the residents of large people, based on privatization, so on the principle of business and therefore without the resources necessary to guarantee neither the proper conditions of staff work, nor the optimal conditions of care to the people who are used. You spoke of violations of civil and political rights and ethnically and racially, in your report. You talk about the increase in mental health problems in some terms that we can probably start calling epidemics or, if we look at it on a global scale, pandemics. He talked about neglect in the different pathologies to covid-19. In fact, you also refer to it in your report, imbalances between prevention and epidemiological control for a band, which are absolutely essential and necessary, and the guarantee, however, of fundamental rights. He spoke of the deficiencies in primary care, which, of course, is perpetuated and badly perpetuated if the assumptions proposed by the government today apply. He talked about a scener, too, about the growth of male violence. And, in short, he spoke of an increase and an increase in inequalities. All that you have to say in the 2020 report and in the context of the covid, we have to say that there are problems and trends that already existed, that have come from previous decades. The covid is nothing more than aggravating, sharpening and intensifying the structural crises that we have already come to grips with, the years of retailing, the model of hegemonic capitalist development in this country..., and what it does is sharpen its consequences. Well, very quickly. This could be extended, too, to the educational model; an educational model based on segregation, for the diversity of educational models that coexist; a model that we have often talked about in this chamber, which neither guarantees it inclusive nor guarantees the struggle against segregation. And this in the covid context has become much more obvious by making it manifest that you also refer to it as hard inequalities in the field of ICT, education or the seriousness of the consequence of covid-19 at school level that you have had on students with special educational needs. You also assign weaknesses in civil, political, democratic and phonental rights. We continue in a context of repression, in a context of repression of independence, in a context of repression of anti-physicism, in a context of repression of dissent, in which unfortunately today the Government of the Generality still participates with particular accusations and obviously with interventions of political repression on the part of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Well, I don't have time to extend all aspects; I do want to point out, as you have done, the housing crisis, a huge problem before which the public policies of this country do not act sufficiently nor do they have the vision to do so on the basis of the proposals currently coming from the Government and the institutions, a crisis to which it is essential to respond as it is: a crisis in relation to a fundamental right. Housing cannot be a commodity, it must be a guaranteed fundamental right for public policies and institutions. Conclusion: Public services, redistribution of wealth, change of production model and development, fight against climate change, guarantee the right to housing and right to self-determination and amnesty as the only solution to resolve the democratic conflict in this country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.154.0	Thank you very much. Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.155.0	Well, good morning to everyone. First of all, thank you and congratulate the report, huh? And the work done for the syndicate and the union team. I think that we are ahead of a good report; like other years, I am turning back the work of the heavy trade union and, from this point of view, I am turning back the complaints that have come, the complaints that the citizenry has brought to the union and also, obviously, the official actions. And I congratulate the report because I understand it's a good tool for doing politics, huh? It's a good tool to try to straighten out the complaints, the problems that citizenry shows that, ultimately, they are the limits of politics, of the political structures that we have to respond to the problems of society, the problems of citizenry, in short, right? Therefore, congratulate the report, because it also gives us elements to do our parliamentary activity. Before entering into the matter, however, let me point out an anomaly that has already come out in relation to the union, which is obviously attributable to the responsibility of this chamber, is due to the combination of political forces that hold a mandate expired years ago that unfortunately ended up projecting into the image of the union and evidence also a malfunction of the institutions and the lack of democratic responsibility of the assembly of the Parliament to complete the legal mandates. And this lack of democratic responsibility of the Parliament to complete the legal mandates ends up projecting also a lack of respect towards the laws that end up weakening the democratic framework. I think we need to be aware that we cannot remain conditional on three political groups agreeing. I believe that the need to defend the democratic institutions of the country goes hand in hand with three political groups blocking the renewal of our institutions. And I'd like to do it and I'd like to reschedule it by quoting Maria-Mercè Marçal, huh? , with a poem that left us, I think, some clear things when she said that "under the stones, the scorpion dancing, it doesn't matter that if we do... – that's not what she did anymore, that's what I'm saying – it doesn't matter that if we do it in charge, it somehow ends up degrading the institutions. If we go in search of expired warrants that, according to the law, must be renewed, what ended up degrading are the institutions, because, as Maria-Mercè Marçal also said, "the rain, slow, long ago, under the chamber. Unfortunately, this degradation of institutions can also end up weakening democracy. I therefore believe that this Parliament should exercise democratic responsibility in order to renovate the institutions, and the union of hard labour is an important institution of this country and to put it on the market. I think..., and the first thing I would like to highlight from the report is the significant increase in activity in relation to the previous exercise of incoming complaints. I think this has a double value. A clearly positive assessment in relation to the union's own performance: it means that there is a greater knowledge of the institution, a greater confidence in addressing this is positive; if more people go there, it means that more people trust the institution, that they know it, that they put it in value. But it also has the other value: that the reality is possibly more striking, there are more difficulties in the lives of people, there are harder in the society than they make people to get to grips with the union of weights. So these two questions are the first one I wanted to put, right? This increase in the activity of the trade union is, we understand, at a more difficult situation, where the social situation has more problems or difficulties. And, therefore, this also shows that a good part or that most of the complaints coming to the union have to do with social issues. The syndic already put it: around forty per cent, thirty-six and a half per cent, they have to deal with social questions; more, if we add to the questions of housing, than agree that they are not social, but that they are also..., even though they are also urbanism, territorialism and general policy, right? So, say, more than forty per cent of complaints have to do with social issues. It is also worth noting that only the u and mig percent have to do with questions of culture and language, or 5.8 have to do with questions of security and justice, which also helps us to relativize sometimes some demagic speeches that are fanciful in relation to these issues, huh? And in this forty per cent of complaints of social rights, obviously, we have the elements of education and research, of childhood, of salvation, of social services, of inclusion, of great people, of disability..., problems, I think, that are important and that I believe that the union somehow places. And it puts them in place, giving us elements that must allow us to intervene in the current budgetary debate. I think it's a good time, when this report comes up, because it's an opportunity to focus on the presuppositional debate. It is true that in matters of salvation the impact of the coronavirus is obvious, but in matters of salvation what is obviously posed is, say, that the effect of the flaps that were made has not yet been reversed, that the presuppositionary efforts are not enough, that there have been organizational deficiencies in the public system of salvation; the col·lapse of 061, the col·lapse of primary care centers, the col·lapse of overflowing covid managers, the complaint of professionals... It may address these questions. Let's see if this premise finally addresses them or not. For now, it's little ambition to approach them. Some of the problems posed by the same syndic, mental health; it is progressing, but insufficiently, to give answers to the needs identified in the year 2020, which 2021 have still worsened, due to the effects of the own pandemic. It also places the effect of the new technologies on primary care. The new technologies... can't be done at the expense of quality. The new technologies, in the first place, can complement the face care, cannot replace the face care, because, if not, this ends in depth in a digital brettxa that the syndic also points out in several quarters of his report. It also informs the question in relation to the great people. It is not just the issue of residences that we are talking about; we are also talking about the combination of problems: the residential model, obviously, is what we see more, but also, say, how we guarantee this autonomy of people. The vulnerability of the large people during the pandemic, of the people who use residential services; not only of the large people – the report also points out –: the need to deepen also in people with intellectual disabilities, the centres of minors or the women victims of gender-based violence, who have also been impacted by the inadequacies of the functioning of these services. It also places the report – and we agree – on some shortcomings in relation to social benefits and aid: guaranteed income from citizenship, and it also places deficiencies in vital minimum income, but it shows the need for these two instruments to be complementary, not substitute, which is complementary to giving greater coverage to people with need. It does not point out one thing, the report, which I think should be deepened in the own report, which is in relation to the exclusion of thousands of citizens from social assistance, precisely because the return indicator for access to these social assistance remains frozen since 2010, which makes people who have incomes below eleven_ thousand euros, which is the probate of Catalonia, there is no access, because the return indicator is still ill-placed at 7,600_euros; there is a lot of people who are left out of social assistance. It also places the report, and we also value it, and we agree on the need to address access to housing, not only as a reactive policy before concrete problems, but also as a general active policy of a housing policy that guarantees access to housing, but also the qualification and quality of housing and the conditions in which people live. Bet here for consent. We are glad to see the value of political, social consensus to address the problems. He claims the National Habitating Pact. We agree; unfortunately, in this Parliament we have voted many times in favour of making a national pact for housing and badly the Government remains unconvoked, without bringing forward the national pact for housing. Perfect. We possess it, but we make it complete the government as well. It is obvious that in housing issues we should also place the problem of youth emancipation, which today, unfortunately, due to problems of access to housing, until the twenty-nine years of middle age do not leave home. There are all the questions about education. Accidentality in work is a topic that I wanted to place, that this does not arise... – I skipped the education themes due to time problems – but there is one issue that I do not think would be worth studying in the report of 2021, even though it was an office, that it is the increase of accidents of work, and unfortunately of fatal accidents, that 2020 have appeared in an important way and that now, with the economic recovery of this 2021, they can still grow more. It is important that we address this issue, because it also has to do with people's living conditions. And I finish, because I was running out of time, just as I started: thanking the report, thanking the work done for the Greuges Synod. I believe that we are ahead of a good report, of a good report that must give us precise tools to intervene in the budgetary debate, to improve it, because badly maintaining the low ambition of the assumptions presented and the few resources to certain strategic policies to make a more cohesive society could, badly, keep us at these high levels of complaints that arrive at the union, that we should try to decrease. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.156.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.157.0	Thank you, President. Mr Sindic, good morning – well, good afternoon – and thank you for your speech, for your presentation of this report, which is indeed perceptible for you to present to Parliament annually, and we thank you for your explanations. It is true that I must say to you, Mr Syndic, that, without any willingness to appear open or much less disrespectful, I believe that with your way of proceeding in recent years you have discredited the institution you embody. He has discredited the institution he embodies because you lack one thing that is fundamental to exercising such an indispensable function for the proper functioning of democracy in our community, which is the autoritas, which is the authority. You have lost your autoritas, if you ever had it, but it is clear that today you do not have autoritas before the citizens of Catalonia, you have no legitimacy, because it is perpetuated in the office in an illegitimate way, it is perpetuated in the office in an incomprehensible way. Eighteen years in a position whose maximum duration should be nine years seems absolutely exorbitant to me and I think you should call for a reflection, at least so that you, out of dignity, would leave the position, resign and allow that position to be renewed in the Parliament of Catalonia. Moreover, I believe that your loss of authority, your loss of legitimacy is given, among other things, because we have known scandals that are known to everyone, such as the fact that you have traveled on a couple of occasions to different matches of Barcelona Football Club with an entrepreneur related to the plot of three_per_cent. We have also known his idea – idea that led to practice – to build a little fish in the union's dependencies. We have also known, according to what the Union of Accounts says, that it appears that you could have also engaged in a practice, let's say, with a relative preaching in this Parliament, which is that of supposedly cutting contracts, in the sense that they could be contracts intended for a single person for the same recurring purpose over time, and that however there are various contracts that are difficult to justify, according to the analysis of the Union of Accounts. And that's why I'm telling you that you've lost the autographs. On the other hand, Mr Ribó, I regret to have to be so hard on you, because yesterday, preparing me for this intervention, I did a quick search on the reports that you have prepared on your own initiative, and the reports that you have prepared on your own initiative are so peculiar, so picturesque as, for example, when you decided to investigate who had ordered the police action on October 1 ; or when you decided to investigate what had happened in the case of a girl who said that they had broken her, I don't know how many fingers – almost more than I had in my hands – the national police on October 1 and it turned out... [[Widow's remorse.]] Sorry, sorry: no, it turned out to be a capsulitis in the end, but, well, I just say it. I sincerely believe, Mr. Syndic, that that is not the function of the Greuges Syndic. I believe that this is not the role of those who must defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia in the face of the abuses of the administration. In fact, the two reports that you presented to us yesterday in the Commission of the Sindic de Greuges, the committee that bears your name, are precisely reports in which you do not only defend the citizens from the abuses committed by the rulers, but also defend the abuses of the rulers against the demands of the citizens, that is to say, you disarm the citizens of Catalonia from the abuses repeatedly committed by the autonomous rulers, which have been committed in recent years, especially in the years of the separatist process. You make a report on the judgment of October 1, the judgment of the trial, the so-called « judgment of the trial, issued by the Supreme Court. And you openly question the Supreme Court's arguments. That is not your function, Mr Ribó; your function is to defend the citizens of Catalonia, as you know, but, unfortunately, it does not, because it lives very well in the heat of the separatist rulers who rule Catalonia, who misrule Catalonia. You were telling me something very symptomatic yesterday. He told me that there has never been a linguistic conflict in Catalonia and that the linguistic conflict began with the arrival of Citizens, who with Citizens arrived the linguistic conflict. Well, some members of the separatist bench say yes, and here is the next question. Of course, as long as the opposition are fundamentally parties – with all due respect – as the Socialist Party of Catalonia, which assumes that the only language used by Catalan schools is Catalan and that the other language used by Catalans – the majority in this case – the Castilian, who is left behind, is excluded from the education system, everything is very easy and there is no conflict. At the moment a party that appeals to justice, that appeals to equality, that appeals to equanimity, that appeals to the right of all children in the world, but also Catalan children, to be educated in their mother tongue, then comes the conflict, according to you. Well, welcome to the conflict. And someone tells you that he's very little in favour of the conflict. Welcome be the conflict, if it is about defending the rights of the citizens of Catalonia to be educated also in their mother tongue. [[Some applause.]] In this sense, Mr. Syndic, Mr. Ribó, you have been in office for eighteen years. Look, I was told the other day by a good friend and connoisseur of Catalan issues who, if we analyze what you have done during these eighteen years..., we could take as an example the story of a child, of a girl, who were born eighteen years ago, just when you took over the leadership of your institution. During those eighteen years this child, this Catalan born in the year..., late 2003 or early 2004, approximately, a person who is more or less on the verge of majority, will have seen how his rights have been systematically violated by the Catalan Administration, by the Autonomous Administration, and systematically bleached that violation by you, by the institution you embody. For example, in the right of any Catalan child or any other place in the world, but also in a democratic country like ours, to receive the first education in his or her mother tongue, a right recognized by the United Nations, which you seem to be unaware of or, in any case, to which he or she seems to care little. A Spanish-speaking child born in Catalonia has no right to receive his or her first education in his or her mother tongue. Pardon me, you do; it is not recognized by the lords of the separatist benches and you do muti for the forum in the face of this violation of rights. Throughout your life, from the life of this child born with the arrival of Mr Ribó to the union of heavyweights, you will also have seen how, when in 2017 your citizenship rights were trampled on by the parliamentary majority who in this Parliament tried to carry out a coup d'état from the institutions, subverting the constitutional order from the Parliament of Catalonia, you, far from making ex officio reports on that abuse, decided to make ex officio reports on..., you have decided to make ex officio reports on the sentence that precisely condemned that abuse, that systematic violation of rights. In her report, this one who presents us here today, speaks of universities and also of the language in universities, and is not at all concerned about the will declared by Mrs Geis, the Councilwoman of Universities, who says that they are going to watch... – as well as in school, as Mr Cambray says in an absolutely Orwellian, absolutely totalitarian argument – she says that they are going to watch, they are going to control the use of Castilian, that is, so that the Castilian is perfectly constrained to the status of foreign language in Catalonia, which is what you claim with your educational system. And let us leave ourselves with warm cloths, that is the pretence of nationalism: to clean up, to leave the Castilian in the status of foreign language in Catalonia. And you, Mr. Syndic, that sees it wonderfully. And then he accuses us of generating linguistic conflict. No, Mr. syndicate, we, the citizens' deputies, the vast majority of citizens' voters, the constitutionalist people, the people who legitimately vote for parties like citizens, do not want linguistic conflict; what they want is recognition of their linguistic rights, they want respect for the essential, proverbial bilingualism of Catalan society. And that's what you deny and that's what you, with your action at the head of your institution, are armoring and legitimizing the separatist parties, which are the ones carrying out this outrage. Just like at university, when you whiten, legitimize and give as normal the pretence of Mrs Geis, of the Councillor of Universities, to also control the language in which university professors teach their subject, whether Catalan or Spanish. And what is basically about, once again, is to prevent teachers from exercising their freedom of chair and, logically, from giving their class in Catalan or Spanish. Look, I said a few weeks ago, I made a comment on Twitter. I, as a university professor, explained that, regardless of whether in the teaching guide the language intended for my subject is Catalan, I with my students – and this can be believed by anyone who has been my student, who is not so many, but some of them –... will be able to believe that my subjects are perfectly bilingual, in Catalan and in Spanish, because the citizens of Catalonia, although you cannot understand it, we have no problem with bilingualism, it is our nature and is, in fact, a pride and wealth that the Catalans have. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.158.0	Then, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.159.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Mr Ribó, and your team. Thank you for submitting this report. So we're looking at a little bit of the 2020 report. I, when we did 2019, remember that I made an observation to him that I told him that the lack of neutrality that sometimes passes on to the reports, therefore puts at risk the credibility of his own report. And I also told him that the report has very useful parts. There's a lot of the report that's good, that's very good; there's a good job back there, there's good data, there's good figures, there's information that's very useful – especially for which we do a parliamentary activity, so it's useful to have this information. But, unfortunately, you read the report and you find references quite snug, very partisan, so that they make it remain credible to a report that should be a reference document to analyze policies, as they are facing the citizen. In fact, you, in one part of the report, make it clear that the object you have as the syndicate is to achieve a greater diffusion and presence of the institution between the population and to be widely known as the guarantor of rights. Unfortunately, that's not happening. The syndic of Greuges, today, and you, monsieur syndic, are not known for this; they are known for things that discredit the institution, and reputations are broken and they are evil very quickly and cost very much to recover them. I'll be in a little bit of analytics on the report. The report is very hard – very hard – against the management that has been done by the public administrations of the covid. In fact, it's one of the reports... – and you say it yourself – a year where there's been a lot of complaints. There's a certain feeling that there's an increase in complaints, so it's been a very complicated year. But from reading the report I agree – and I think it is the conclusion that we should all arrive – that we need to reflect very deeply on what response citizens get from their administrations in times of major crises. And the conclusion that I do not understand is that the Administration has not been agile. In fact, you yourself tell us, when you say: "During this crisis without precedent many people see the satisfaction of their needs compromised, without the response of the Public Administration giving concrete solutions with the urgency that the circumstances require. The current crisis has also shown that social entities have been developing a foundational role in the immediate and urgent coverage of these needs, which is why there is an urgent need for legal and presuppositional recognition of these entities and of the third sector. You've seen Mr. Giró, who's not here, but unfortunately, this presuppositional recognition doesn't go into these presuppositions. Therefore, this government no longer pays attention to it in this part of the report, which I must say – I absolutely share. The Administration has not been agile and, therefore, means that it has not been useful, and this is very difficult. An administration before a health and economic crisis must be agile, it must be useful. And even in a few moments he tells us that the Administration has been neglectful – they are not his words, they are my words, but it is the conclusion that I do not extrude. I should like to give two examples. When you refer to what has happened to the residences of the great people, from all that you look at the performance of the Administration in relation to the residences of the great people, it is concluded that there is a lack of transparency – gravity, gravity. And, besides, you tell us that, in fact, you have started office investigations of what happened there. Well, that's fine, since we haven't been able to approve a commission of inquiry here, so it's okay that you do... we'll be glad to know that this investigation has gone away. Under the circumstances, you do not mention the government's order not to hospitalize residents of large people's residences. It seems to me to be a significant and important omission, and I think it should be the basis of the whole analysis of what went on to the residences, because what goes on to the residences is a direct consequence of this government decision. I don't care about helping people with their own pimes. In fact, he tells us that there is a lack of a greater support in the form of agile and sufficient help to entrepreneurship, which is the backbone of our economy– another message to Mr. Giró–, and the collections of autonomous people have not only been affected by the pandemic but have also proved to be one of the most unsavory for administrations. And, in fact, he dedicates a paragraph or two to analyzing the show before the help that was made available to the autonomes – that it was almost like buying tickets to Bruce Springsteen's concert, wasn't it? – and you say that here you violated the principle of equality and that we must guarantee in future calls to help the principle of equality. Worrying, a government does not guarantee the principle of equality. And then there's a warning, too, Mr. Giró – it would be good, if he's at his listening desk – that he says: "It's appropriate to adopt fiscal flexibility measures, taxes and recaptatories to deal with the effects of the covid. We're bringing tax relief claims, tax reliefs – they haven't done it either, they won't go into these assumptions, badly. Now I'm a little more on the political side and the shortcomings I find in it. I've already made reference to the lack of a reference to the order not to refer residents to hospitals. There is no reference to the infra-financing of the concerted school. It's true that you are talking about: how to finance better, how to help more; talking about high-complexity centers – I share your opinion – but it doesn't talk about the law's failure at the point of financing school concerts – meaning. No reference to the Aldaruls. We have experienced, in important cities of Catalonia, aldarulles continued with harsh violent attitudes – no reference. No reference to the failure of the senses, in reference to the castle to the school. They are judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, and here there is a government that systematically incompletes the judgments of its highest court. And don't even quote it. It seems to me serious, that this makes it a government. In relation to the language and the teaching in the castle to the universities, in fact, you give the report the turn. Don't say they're violating the rights of those students who want a teaching in the castle, but they're violating the rights of the students who want the teaching in Catalan. And it seems to me already... this has already been like a sensational CIS-style kitchen, but, well, it has surprised me enough. Then... oh, yeah, the most politicized part of all is when you make a reference to the compliment of prisoners' sentences for the trial, right? He directly claims not only his release, but also claims an amnesty law. Forgive me, Mr Ribó, you are none to ask for an amnesty law which, moreover, is illegal. I mean, this is where he's losing a little bit, so the rigour of what he's reporting. University theme, there is the point where there was the manifest fame of all the universities against the feelings of the process, you say something surprising, that you do not think this will violate the principle of neutrality of the universities. So, he'll tell me what this is if it's not a violation of the principle of neutrality, right? It's more like, he's still doing more and he's telling us it was a mission to pronounce on these facts. And it's not a duet, it's a mission, almost holy. As a result, he then sees the Supreme Court and annuls this statement saying that, effectively, ideological, expression and educational freedom is violated. Finally, so – I finish here, that time is running out – remember, effectively, that the renewal of this organ is pending, that lime, that the structures cannot be conquered and that a democracy requires, therefore, regeneration and compliment of the mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.160.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mrs Cristina Casol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.161.0	Thank you very much, President. Syndic, thank you for being here today, for this report. Transfer our thanks also to your entire team. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone. To begin with, and beyond being a preceptive document of year 2020, tell you that this report has a singularity that the difference, since it is an accurate and justified humane lesson and a cry, a strong cry of alert. Because we all know, or find, a sense more rational than living in this land and the heavy danger of inequality, always. Because we do not deceive ourselves, without equality, a health or economic emergence cannot be fought in any way. He calls on us to take a blank full, to start from scratch and design a new social project, with the recognition and learning of what he's touched on living and how we have to do it from then on. To build, among all, a real better of the welfare society. Look, 2020 was a year in which all the complaints and suggestions from the citizens of the union's history came to an end, which means, above all, a very hard time, a great deal of help. In respect of each of the people who expressed their feelings before the syndic, we must listen to the great warning criteria that this report brings and we must work to reverse it, since they are very loud alarms for the defense of social rights, for the fight against inequalities, for the defense of the land and the environment, and also for the defense of freedoms. And also for the limitations of democracy's fundamental rights, which the states of alarm and justice have weakened. In the first place, and as I have already said, there is social policy, where health, 2020, was the great protagonist and calls for us to make a huge effort to return; to return what we have received from this collection. And therefore, this first warning letter to seek a real health policy, with changes, investments and more resources, to strengthen this universal public service. In this way, it is essential to fight for more rights in social policy. We need to take care of and respect the big people and make an effort to review the residential model. We need to do more to fight inequality and guarantee the right of education. We need to help the most disadvantaged. We need to look for working people, very affected by the closure and depletion of the sectors and face aid with compliments and coordination, not like the ERTOs, who one for the other despaired the people they spent to live. I, indisputably, can face with much more resources the decline of the habitation. How has the crisis affected residential exclusion after salvation? How many people are left behind so they don't have a foothold? One of the major vulnerabilities of people is not having to live, take care and rest. This first point is a first warning cry that sets us against inequality in social rights, because, sadly, today we still have a sin of precariousness, poverty and vulnerability. Secondly, it talks about respect for the environment, public services, basic rights and sub-administrations. The report calls on us to remember that we have dues pending in reversal and in execution of public reversal: public transport, rolling stock, energy, climate change, decarbonization, basic sub-administrations. It is for this reason that public powers must guarantee that all these services... that today we are experiencing a chronic arousal and that it is, unfortunately, completely enraptured. Moreover, let us not forget that the citizens also have a right to a good public administration, a good digital and fully transparent access. The third word of alarm that we can't ignore is what it does..., respects rights, rights that are so instrumental in democracy and that the state of alarm has weakened, such as the right of assembly, the right of manifestation and the right of free expression. It is from here that we have the duty to defend these rights, as well as the right to equal treatment, not to discriminate by religion or belief, because it does not mean that the memories that with the crisis have multiplied racist abuse, violence against women, against the most vulnerable collectivities, and, as I said, we have the duty to defend all these rights in conjunction, because for us they are an unbreakable red line. In addition, we could add another one of the basic sources of the democratic system in this third alarm code, as the back-up report that is today, there are gatherings that do not yet register the people. We need to recognize all the people who live with us, because they are in the system, because they enjoy social rights, because they have right to vote, and because they have all the rights we have today, and most of us here today. Finally, I invite you to think of a daily exercise that we do when we set ourselves up every morning or when we take the furniture to take a picture of ourselves. So this annual report of the 2020 Syndicate is the image that we ourselves, together, never thought we'd see. And if we're honest enough, we'll look at the reflex of a hard straight back and an encouragement of well-being and progress. From this clear picture we must learn to see that it is very, very much, more political action to minimize and reduce the weights around us. As a result, the Government of Catalonia, the new Government of Catalonia, has made an important effort in a few months to make the assumptions of 2022, with the image fixed on everything that I have explained to them and in good part of the problem that reflects the report of the syndic of 2020. Why? To leave no one behind, to give an answer, the social response that we need; for territorial equity, for salvation, for digitalization, for the fight against climate change and for the defense of all freedoms. It is the responsibility of all of us, as I said at first, to listen to all the alarm criteria of this report, to take a blank full, to start from scratch, to truly improve the quality of life of the people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.162.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.163.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies, and, in particular, good morning to the sindic lord and his entire team. And, as it could not be otherwise, start with a thank you for this detailed explanation of this 2020 report and also for the whole task that this institution carries out; let us remember the role of the defence syndic's institution, the claim and the denunciation of violations of the rights of the citizenry, of the rights to our country. Since I couldn't be otherwise, I had prepared a speech for myself, but I do want to make some preconceptions about speeches that have made some political formations, right? And it's that I've been spared because precisely today the sindic lord, that always, in every commission, no? , starts with an element of the..., well, no, of the designation of a new syndic..., today precisely in this Faristol this element has not been made, but, nevertheless, other groups have indeed drawn their artillery. I wanted to recall a reference to the law of the syndic and also that, from the designation of the new syndic, we are conscious, we are working in this sense, and, in fact, that was recorded in the general policy debate. Returning to the report, which is what we are dealing with today, the report of this 2020 of the Synod of Greuges of Catalonia, the whole of the activity due to end for the institution, and in an exceptional year, marked, as it cannot be otherwise, for the pandemic of the covid-19, for the declaration of two states of alarm and the restrictions of the rights of the citizenry to face this climate emergency situation. We do want to point out that this report does positively value the predisposition that administrations and businesses have, right? , to collect these complaints and these suggestions, to reverse the complaints, as I said, right? For what it does to acceptance..., in fact it is said in the proper report that acceptance of the syndic's resolutions..., in 98,9_percent of the cases have been totally or partially accepted these recommended measures for the syndic. In fact, during the year 2020, as has already been done, the volume of activities, passing for the first time of eleven thousand, has increased, and it is that it has managed to deal with dissot_ thousand complaints, has not it? Therefore, these previous considerations, to place us in the framework of what we find in this report..., would be the impact of the covid-19, disset_mil queixas tramitades, the forty_per_cent of the volume of the intervention has remained in social policies, which could be comparable to the worst years of the economic crisis of the past decade, and the variety of profiles, but the main volume of the complaints is concentrated especially in vulnerable collections, and highlight, first of all, the women. Also, like the note, before I go in for every apartment, I'd like to make a point of this project of assumptions, wouldn't I? , which was presented last week by 2022: this expenditure increases, this assumption, in health and education; in fact, one of every euro is destined for health and education, and also for social rights, which represent that three of every four euros are destined for social policies. Now I'm coming in to say hello, aren't I? As it could not be otherwise, we will again pose on the table this undesirable situation that came from the covid-19, with very many victims. And from here on out, as it couldn't be, so we make this thing out of all the families of the victims of the coven. Also an element of the health world's professionals, but also of the world's professionals of cure services, of clean services that left the skin there and devoted themselves to mitigating these effects of this pandemic. It should also be noted that the Català de la Salut Service has developed a primary care strengthening plan to make structural reforms in the health system to provide, in some ways, the primary care of sufficient resources to meet the needs of care. As a matter of fact, I've already done it, haven't I? , this assumption increases, and much, the assumption in salvation. For what he does to social rights, right? The report states that social policies represent about forty per cent of the syndic's intervention volume, right? And here's the ugly thing about caring for the big people, differentiating the big people from who they are, and it's that we can't embrace everything; big people aren't just residents. On the other hand, guaranteed citizenship income, right? In the context of the pandemic that, as described in the report, the SOC put in operation the face-to-face attention to pre-mentioned offices in order to prevent people who precisely did not have access to telematics media from being able to be accessed. Therefore, in fact, all the requests were processed, whether telematically or face-to-face, if well except in that period when the pandemic caused everything to be paralyzed. Plus, it's about the name of the complaints, right? , in this sense of guaranteed income, also decreased by 2020 compared to 2019. It's like all the people in the end, isn't it? As I said, they wanted to exercise this right to demand any referral they could do. The issue of housing. And it's that it's a cool topic and that we're also worried about, and a lot. In fact, it is working from the Government of the Government of Catalonia, but also from this chamber, from the Parliament of Catalonia; there are working groups. And we have to put housing policies in the center because we have a big problem. In fact, the government and specifically the Department of Social Rights and the Agency of Housing in Catalonia shared the planning of the need, right? , to allocate more economic, technical and human resources and to deploy public housing policies. We'd also like to make them self-righteous, wouldn't we? , which was one of the most severely affected collectivities removed from the alert state statement. We remember that the Spanish State's aid to this collection was completely inadequate, and here the Government of the Generality acted another time. In March 2020, the Department allocated €7 million to support between €530 and €2 million to 8,869 people. The months of November and December were two calls for help, another two_ thousand_euros, with 284_millions of euros in the presupposition, and which will benefit 142,000 people. Education theme. The covid overshadowed everything; the schools had to be reformulated, didn't they? Because for six months the student was at home and did not witness it. From here, a thanks to the entire education collection that continued to teach classes during confinement. What we also have to say, and let's say it and put it on the table, that the confinement that was also displayed on the table is the situation of inequality that exists between different students, such as the digital icon. And it's that not all the students have a computer or an Internet connection to their home. Therefore, for this reason, it has also been answered from the Generalitat with a digital education plan of Catalonia to ensure that all students are digitally competent; also increasing the name of the teacher. And, in fact, with the plan of open schools, which was tough by September 2020, we allowed that throughout the course the schools could return to presenceality. Actually, the language thing, too, isn't it? Because we've been listening to some interventions in the language sense today, haven't we? If the Catalan language, the mother tongue... And I feel it, but I see myself in the obligation to explain reality again, don't I? And I'll talk about myself again, won't I? : « Anna – who as always says..., with a child – « daughter of Andalusian and Extremist. And you've got a little to see, haven't you? , that my mother tongue is the castle; it doesn't have..., there's no doubt about it, is there? And, besides, of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, which was the bressol of linguistic immersion and which there were the families of Galicia, of Extremadura, of Andalusia who fought for this linguistic model to hold the català to the schools. So an immense gratitude to all the families like my and many more of Santa Coloma de Gramenet who, barri in barri, from Singuerlin to Fondo, fought for a school in Catalan. Because we don't have a problem talking castle at home and català at school. Therefore, they do not make a language supporter or a problem where it does not exist. [[Some applause.]] If there is this problem, it's at the universities, where a lot of us register to teach a class in Catalan that ends up in the castle, that's right, but that's not what it's all about. That's the subject of college, isn't it? , that they have just spoken about the subject of complaints for a Catalan enrollment that has been taught in castle. And before I run out of time, and leave other themes for the answer, the theme of equality and feminism, right? And it's that for such a long time this revolution... and it was talking about the annual report of the Greuges Synod, right? , to make this advice necessary and to deploy Law 19/2020, equal treatment and non-discrimination..., now, and we have here the Verge Councillor, right? , that at the appearance, he already said – from the commission – that we had to make this deployment of this law and in the same way make a diagnosis of these LGTBI-fobic attacks, and, moreover, also put clearly that the confinement that he did, precisely, also, is to increase male violence, given that many women were forced not to be able to separate from the aggressor. And I'm going to keep it, so... I'm going to keep it up. Thank you very much, syndic. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.164.0	After the turn of the groups, the syndic has the word, if he wishes, to finish and thank the interventions of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.165.0	Thank you, President. And to thank all the interventions that have taken place in this debate, to all the Members who have intervened, for all their opinions, suggestions and criticisms, that give as a result, for which it would seem, that a majority of parliamentary groups and Members and Members of the House appreciate the value of this report, and even more so..., even underlining the harshness of some of the criticisms in the report respect the Administration and that it is with the approval above all of what they said – sad – that we have struck the memory of the number of complaints and people that the Syndic has reached during 2020. And soon we'll be able to prove it when we get the 2021 report out of here. This is concrete evidence of a society and how its people approach the institution, of any social origin, age, culture, language, etc. I come into the subject of the report on the social crisis. I repeat the warning letter that has gathered many of the interventions for the failures that have occurred during the pandemic and post-pandemic – because I would be so pleased to say that the pandemic has already ended, and I look at the Health Counselor because he has to be as much or more harmed as I am, that this still has his sequels – but we need to correct these shortcomings, and not the least doubt that, as we have been doing and going in monograms like that of residents, such as we are planting over education complexity and others, we need to produce the corresponding reports that complement the argumentary line of the annual report of 2020, or what we are doing about 2021. We have a very important crisis that, as was also said in interventions, before it was known that with the covid has emerged even more strongly. Let's not go back to the debate about linguistic rights. Ten for the first time, in presenting the report, this is a treasurer that has Catalonia, and that is recognized as a land of the world. Each year they enter the education system for 1_million_i_mig people. I look at the figures of what kind of conflict, even numerically, there are in this number of people entering the education system and in their surroundings of couples, seas, families, living units. For what it does to education, I reiterate support for the pact against segregation and call on all major parliamentary groups to activism about this pact and major participation. We have done a lot of reporting on the cost of the school board, and this cost can serve as a northerly, orienteering, both for the concerted and for the public, and it can help a lot to put a lot of glosses of false debates that could embolise the discussion on how to achieve equity in education. Obviously, we could extend 'em very much on the poor child, on the poor child in general, but especially the most punishing, the poor child, and how it is present both in the report of the rights of the child, which has been delivered to the chamber, as in the same annual report of 2020, or as it will be in 2021. Like the rights and freedom of speech. Since 2014, this syndic has warned in this chamber that there has been a regression of rights and freedoms, and I see that there are parliamentary groups in the General Courts that have begun to march back on some laws that previously understated that there were attacks on rights. So it turns out they're giving the reason to the one who was criticizing that there was an appetite for phonental rights in those laws. But we're putting it here since 2014. And I'm glad that now, even though he's very shy, he's moving forward in reforming those laws that were eroding in rights and freedoms. And obviously, with the whole set of reports that we have made on what has been discussed, the reform of the Criminal Code for the crime of secession, which seems to be already under the captiva, which has become oblivious, or the issue of non-judicial persecution. Today we know – it is yesterday, but it has been published today – how it seems that in the later action of the outgoing Court of Auditors they will continue to pursue economically the political crime, the anonymous political crime, and as the whole subject of a dialogue solution can perfectly contemplate in debate – there are opinions in one sense or another – a possible law of amnesty. I would like to add to this..., in this telegraph, a reflection on the renewal of the institution and of the institutions – of the institution and of the institutions. I won't be the one who reminded everyone of the list of institutions that are about to be renovated, here and in the Spanish State, and how some renovations have been made. I won't be the one who gets into this stuff, but think, think, and analyze this question. For what he does to the Syndic, as he said in the previous speech, again, he asks, please, as I asked all the Presidents of the Parliament, to the previous President, to the current President, every year and at every moment, that the syndic's renewal mechanisms are set aside and that we overcome the blockade. Apart from these official and unofficial requests in all the talks, I have only recently decided – three months ago and a half ago – to call on all the chairmen of parliamentary groups to talk to them about possible mechanisms for overcoming the blockade. All the parliamentary groups have responded positively, except one, which does not have an agenda to meet with the syndic, that of the most important parliamentary group in the chamber. I am talking to all the chairmen of the parliamentary groups, with absolutely different and even opposite opinions, about what mechanisms, as is done to Germany, as is done to Norway, as is done to the number of democratic systems in Europe, especially when they can produce, as is happening both in Spain and Catalonia, blockades in the renovations. In this sense, what is absurd is that to force renewal is vague criticism of lies. It is perfectly well known, but perfectly well known, that the report of the Union of Accounts does not have an irregularity detected to the Syndic, because the irregularities that the Union of Accounts detects are going to have criminal effects. And I'd love for anyone who wants to serve this argument, who's back to reading the Greuges Syndic's audience, or who doesn't quote it, as mentioned in this chamber, missing the truth. If you want to talk about the National Audience, I would like to say that anyone who wants to talk about reading the three decisions, two from a court, and one from the appeals room, that there are three courts, say nothing about it is a personal issue, and that I quote..., not for the defence of the person, so as not to contribute to the erosion of institutions with lies, lacking in truth. And in this sense, I think it would be very important for us to have an analysis of the criticisms that are made in this forum respecting the institutions and because of what they have changed. And obviously, here's a dividing line: 2017, October 1. From the U d'Octubre, parliamentary groups that used, applauded, continued, pushed the reports of the Syndic have left it completely in the band, in any of its dimensions. And then, we jumped to what can be quoted as a direct way of renewing: resignation; one way of renewing is to have it resigned. Look, I am more of the things that I can boast of than having been elected for all the defenders of Europe – all of them – with a secret electronic vote, twice, two four-year terms, as chairman, president of these. And with this task I hit stone, I kicked stone at the Venice Commission, at the Council of Europe to get a text that is said to be the principles of Venice. Let me tell you in full today, please, study it and apply to the reforms of the laws what they say these principles to defend the institutions. And one of the things he says is, in everything that the same Venice Commission, the Council of Europe, has drawn from these principles, when we have seen barbarities like that of Poland, that with partisan pressure is meant to have the holder of the institution of defence of human rights fold, he says: "Never will a holder leave his place until he gets what he has been elected for the same organ that has named him. It's that you're elementary. If it's not for personal reasons or whatever it is, but what it can't be is that a strange way is being taken to renovate institutions. You have all the possibilities. And, again, I would like to say, the chairmen of the parliamentary groups that have been speaking to them now know that we have also shown them instruments that could be used for this renewal. If you're obviously willing to talk and talk to the dialy. If there is no dialog available, we cannot communicate these instruments. I, in this sense, would like to solemnly say to all parliamentary groups that use funds, manipulate, if in any case, in the noblest sense of the word, the institution of the Synod, which is to defend rights and freedoms; use all its recommendations of the institution. If they're in the government, maybe they'll seem a bit critical – while they're in the government, they already looked like them –; if they're in opposition, maybe they'll look like we're short. As far as I'm concerned, let's use it on the ground, which is why we exist, and they have us absolutely at their disposal. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.166.0	Is there any parliamentary group that wants to use the word after the syndic's intervention? Yeah? [[Pause.]] There are three groups: Ciutadans, VOX and PP. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, so, open the door. And, therefore, I give the word, first of all, to the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, to Mr Oscar Aparicio.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.167.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it's not that I want to focus on the subject, but here they said, during this reply, things with which, obviously, we disagree. You mentioned, Mr. Syndic, the case of Poland, but, of course, the case of Poland was very different, we were talking about a syndic who was with the current mandate. Clearly, I mean that we're trying in this case to get him out the back door, that's not the case, you've exhausted his warrant. And the fact that the responsibility of the political parties is to find a substitute and agree does not prevent you from continuing in charge if you are not given this case. And you don't have to go on in the carrec only – and I told my first intervention – because your term has expired, but also because of the action you've done. You understand that you're doing it impartially, but today, or today, a minute ago, in this rostrum, you said that the courts are pursuing. Courts don't chase, courts judge. I can agree, not as the syndic, but as the person, more or less in what these judicial resolutions are, but, of course, if we start from the base that a syndic, who should not have among his or her functions or who does not have among his or her functions to judge or control the judiciary, sees in his or her parliament and tells us to pursue, this I believe already invalidates his or her subsequent action. Besides, it means..., and you also said that you would understand that the parties that are in the government were critical of the figure of the syndic, precisely, in this case, Catalonia is not this situation; here the parties that are supporting the government are very much in favour of you, and it has become clear here. Why? Well, I think I said that in my first intervention, and you might as well have to reflect on why you're there. They have given you support, and if you have listened to what they have said, basically the two parties that are part of the government and the CUP – if we understand that it gives support to the government, that we don't know – for fears that they define as defending the rights of the people. But I do understand that what they meant was defence of the policies condemned for the September and October events, not for the other half of Catalonia. Because you say that we have access and that we use the mechanisms of the Syndic, but I told him the other time, when after the PSC Group..., I was not there, but when Mrs. Marta Moreta and all the companies that were there at that time asked him, they were preaching to him – and other parliamentary groups too, because they also said it in this forum – that you make specific monographic reports about those facts, you did not make them. Why am I telling her all this? Because, of course, it's very easy – and I had already said it at the time – to come here and pass the blame to a third party, to the political party, but you too – and I think that this, an institution like you would represent, would have to be clearer than anyone else – is also your responsibility. And by the end, a couple more things. You wanted to say..., and some parliamentary group that came out wanted to whiten a little figure in the sense of saying that the complaints have increased, the volume of actions that you have done has increased and that means that it is a greater recognition by the people of respect for the figure. I'd say, Mr. Syndic, and to the groups that have said it, don't be fooled, that's not for a confidence they can have in the... - and that's so good at keeping it, huh? – in the union, only because it happens every time there is a time of crisis. He's made it more desperate than they can trust him. And now yes, by the end of the day, yes I would like, therefore, to answer both Junts per Catalunya and Esquerra, with statements they have made. Clearly, the Parliamentarian of the Juntas Group for Catalonia, who knows I have great respect for her, has said that we have to listen to people's criticisms. Parliamentarians, whom we do not know so much, from the Esquerra Group, have also stated, that we must listen, that we must pay attention to these warnings which make the reports of the Synod. I already told you once – it seems to me that Mrs. Casol was not present, but you are – that I find it very good that we do. Actually, it's our obligation. We do read all of the Syndic's reports and use them in our parliamentary activity, but you, who are supporting the government, who are the ones who have the possibility that these recommendations that in many reports are good, in all those who are not politically credible, are good and present data, so they do. Because it's very good to come here to clap, to put the cry to the cell, to say that we are listening to the cries of the people, but then do nothing. I've already told them in their moment that I've had less applause and more compliments. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.168.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Sergio Macián has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.169.0	Yes, thank you, President. I'll be very brief and I'll do it from the seat. Mr Sindic, look, all the opposition groups – PSC, VOX, Citizens and PP – have demonstrated the serious crisis of lack of impartiality suffered by your institution, the institution you preside over. This is seen in all the reports that you submit, monographic, which I believe should be reflected on the one hand and, on the other hand, respect above all the decisions of judges and courts, since the function of judging and enforcing what is judged belongs to them and not to the Synod of Greuges. And, look, the syndic of Greuges is to guarantee citizens' rights and freedoms against the abuses of the Administration, in this case against the abuses of the Generalitat, and not to ask amnesty or other issues, which I believe is already Patrícia Plaja from the Palau of the Generalitat. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.170.0	It's the turn of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win [[Funnel veils]] who decides not to intervene. It would be the turn of In Comú Pode..., also declines. On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.171.0	Thank you, President. Well, I would like to take advantage of this intervention basically to make a statement to one of the great failures of the separatist world, of the separatist discourse, which is precisely the fact of pretending, let us say, that linguistic immersion..., which is moreover the bad term "linguistic immersion, which is not linguistic immersion but is simply a monolingual model in Catalan. The idea of linguistic immersion, it is supposed, is that Catalan speaking students, those of Catalan speaking families, should then have all the instruction, all the education in castle, and immersion would be for those children or those young Spanish speaking families, which is would do everything in Catalan. Therefore, it is not an immersion model but a monolingual model in Catalan. Let's say the things for his name. First, that's the theme. Then, on which the deputy of the Republican Left, who is the speech Rufián, that is that immersion was born almost in a salvific way, to save the children of Santa Coloma from monolingualism in castle, and it was made, let us say, a monolingual model to ensure that these children could speak Catalan. I believe that the only way to ensure that children in Catalonia speak both languages is not exactly a monolingual model. I remember perfectly the ex-adviser Rigau saying in an open program, in a radio program, saying that she remembers pairs of Santa Coloma de Gramenet crying– crying, talking to her and crying –, said: "Many thanks, Mrs. Rigau, for implanting the model of linguistic immersion. I doubt very much that a Spanish-speaking father, in this case, can wish for his children a model strictly, only, based on the Catalan language, that there is not even the Spanish mother tongue in the education system. It seemed to me to be an authentic contrast. It would be as easy as accepting that all two languages must have a presence in the education system. I don't think it's that hard to understand. It is a battle that Ciutadans actually undertook in this community, which we will continue to lead, that we will continue to defend the bilingualism of Catalan society. And it is that, I insist, I think there is nothing more supremacist than the fact of saying, let's say, that the Spanish-speaking pairs of working-class people beg, often beg that the assignments, that the whole system of education is only in Catalan. It seems to me like a supremacism that he's talking about. When I hear Mr. Rufián say that linguistic immersion, let's say, is the only way to ensure that children speak Catalan, that children speaking Spanish speak Catalan, seems to me to be an authentic disarray. The fundamental question is that all Catalans, Spanish-speaking and Catalan-speaking, regard each other for our two languages, respect, prestige and esteem each other for our two languages. Look, the Republican Left MP commented, with all due respect, that she is absolutely in favour of linguistic immersion and more than her parents, as well as being Spanish-speaking, are. Well, I don't understand it, but it's respectable, it seems very respectable, but I honestly believe that there is a mistake in this position. You can perfectly end up speaking Catalan very well, whenever you respect language, whenever you respect it, let's say it, and you have esteem for culture and language, in this case for Catalan culture and language, exactly like whenever you respect the castle, your public presence, your history as well as Catalan language, whenever you respect the truth it is perfectly possible to dominate all two languages. Some boast of being children of linguistic immersion, and to me it seems very respectable. Some others we have made a mixed system, in which there was a catal and castellan as a vehicle language, in a concerted school, with the resulting effort that supposes for the family pairs in concrete that they will pay either a private school or a concerted school, certainly, as they do many of the policies that in public defend immersion and that then they bring their children to schools that have trilingual models; some inclines and conspicuous leaders of separatist parties do exactly that. So, it's as easy as this: a multilingual system, a system in which there is more than one vehicle language, especially the two languages of the citizens of Catalonia, Catalonia and Castilian. It is perfectly possible that the Catalan and Castilian children will be spoken perfectly. The question is not to discredit, it is not to neglect, it is not to try to situate the castle as a foreign language in Catalonia, and that is exactly what makes the model of linguistic immersion, which is presented as a menu, let us tell us of the balm of Fierabrás that solve all the linguistic problems that there is in Catalonia. I think it's all the opposite: català and castella have a very healthy coexistence in society, and that's what we have to do to institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.172.0	Then, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.173.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Ribó, you have spoken today more like a member of the Independence bench than as an independent and neutral figure, which is what it is to be. The Court of Auditors does not pursue political and economic crimes. And you've hardly missed it if it's... well, I understand that I did: I'd say he's not persecuting crimes of misappropriation. Seems very serious to me, this statement you make. The theme of language in the schools. You have said that in the end the name of conflict is smaller; there are not so many families who ask for teaching in castle. But it's just that there's a family, there's only a family that sees it harming their child's teaching because they don't understand the catalá enough, because it's new, that's why, and there's a delay in their child's education because it doesn't comply with the obligation to have a vehicle language in the castle either, that's a problem, and here's what we're saying and what I said to the bench is that the government is systematically not fulfilling the sentences of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. And that's serious. And you, Mr Ribó, are the guarantor of the rights of the citizens, not the guarantor of the rights of the Government and, therefore, it is important that this difference be made clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.174.0	Thank you. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mrs Cristina Casol has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.175.0	Look, very briefly this line. But I will try to make her very understanding, and I will use my own experience. In the development of the previous tasks, ahead of me at this stage as in politics, I was responsible for the Habitatage Service in Lleida, for a decade, with a very dedicated team of thirty people, and I know perfectly well who is and who helps the people. Well, we all knew about the team. Who really helps the people, and how he does it. And I assure you the Greuges syndic always does. The city of Lleida has had the great luck of working colza with the syndicate, with Mrs Dora Padial, always for the better and the defense of social justice in its vaster scope. And I can only appreciate the good work, the involvement and dedication that she and her entire team have always had. Your entire team. The syndic of Greuges have a lot of work, Catalonia. They've got more than I've got. There are many heavy, very heavy, in Catalonia, and many come from the bench, from the demagogic bench. I repeat: many of the weights come from the demagogic bench. And finally, from this chamber, it is a continuous shame to listen to all the institutions of Catalonia one by one. Catalonia, our birth, still unstated. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.176.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.177.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll be very brief. Just a thank you to the syndic and his entire team for their dedication, for their professionalism, for this critical, also, feeling, and in their reports, which makes it possible to improve, both from the Government of the Generality and from the Parliament of Catalonia. And only, for the last reference made to me by the deputy of Ciutadans on the language, look, I don't know Rufián, soc Balsera, but I will also tell him one thing: I don't miss the castle, much less when it's my mother tongue with which I communicate with my parents every day. What we cannot say is that the castle and the català are in equal condition. And last but not least, I come from the public school, and I see the public school in català. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.178.0	Thank you very much. Finished the debate, and on behalf of the chamber, I would like to thank the heavy duty syndic and his team members for their attendance at the plenary today. And we suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.179.0	Let's resume the order of the day. [[Question to the Government about the deployment and repres of the legislature (withdrawn)]] [[300-00074/13]] And before we continue with the order of the day, I must say that the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left has withdrawn the question to the Government about the deployment and the repres of the legislature, which corresponds to the point of the order of the day. [[Ask the Government about strategic and business support projects]] [[300-00070/13]] Let's move on to the fifth point of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about strategic and business support projects, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Forward Units. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.180.0	Thank you, President. Conseller Torrent... Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. First of all, as we have done other times and I believe that it is a good opportunity to do so today, from the Socialist Group and the Forwarding Units we want to make a recognition, a very sincere recognition for the work, the great sacrifices that have been made by so many autonomists and autonomists of our country – botiguers, merchants and entrepreneurs from different sectors – in an extremely difficult year and a half. Because we are talking about the personal dramas that have occurred for the pandemic – health, social – but there have also been many personal and family dramas linked to businesses, to the autonomy and to the many difficulties arising from the health crisis. Also, for another band, looking to the future..., the firm conviction that our society – entrepreneurial, dynamic, open to the world – will be able to lead the many changes that are taking place on the way, and, therefore, take advantage of these opportunities and challenges that we have ahead. We say there will be no social progress without economic progress, and vice versa. In fact, we say that we must complement it, that we must not contradict it, because sometimes it seems that if we are betting on economic progress, we are leaving social progress behind and vice versa. And it's not like that. This is the moment – surely everyone must agree – to have a long look. Surely in the elaboration of the assumptions, that in this legislature, that at these times, we all have the feeling that we need to lay the groundwork so that we have a sustained, sustainable growth, a proper progress, and a solid economy for the next few years. And we have to do it without demagogic or catastrophic, because there's a lot of demagogic, and there's a lot of catastrophic visions that don't help. But you also need to speak clearly about those fears that don't work well, talk clearly about those fears that don't work. Who are, in our view, these objectives that we have shared with the counselor many times? Catalonia must take advantage of the adversity of the covid – of this evil covid that has transformed us all – and the extraordinary resources that Europe will have to transform the Catalan economy; to bet on the strategic sectors, to gain competitiveness, that we still need to gain competitiveness. Now's the time, Counselor. Now is the time to transform our economy; to re-industrialize and reach this twenty-five per cent of GDP, which we are talking about a lot, but there is no way to move forward; to try to stop the industrial destruction that is taking place in the country; to modernise our fabric with the resources that come, and to become, in short, the first economic engine of the State and one of the most entrepreneurial and progressive regions of Europe. But to make him listen to everyone, without harm, as I said. You are sure that you have also felt that there is a great deal of fatigue in the business sector. There is a great..., sometimes also a little moody, around some statements that are said, if not from the government, of the members of the government. It does not mean the dependence of the CUP, that we have not spoken many times, not so much for what the CUP says – which can obviously make interesting contributions, like all parliamentary groups – but that you subject the government's strategy to some assumptions that are certainly not shared or understood by certain economic sectors. We're going back to giving our hands, as we've given them for the first time. We believe we believe that the government's smallest when the Socialist Party gives their hands do not help to create great alliances, great consensuss, around central themes of the country. Do not help the economy, businesses, economic progress, nor, obviously, do not help to have assumptions with a larger majority. Let's see, time to time, how's it going. And, therefore, there is a certain disappointment and discomfort for an important part of the sector. They think there's a lack of empathy and a lack of clear answers. You're sure he's also soft in business circles; you have to tell him what's going on. Therefore, we, for this reason, for what we have said, but also because we believe that there is an excess of demagogicism and populism in the last years, at times, at all times, we believe that what concerns us also is to be responsible, apart from being clear; try to give your hand to bring more solutions and fewer problems. Our objective of the inquiry was to deal with three very important aspects. The first is to make a valuation of direct aid to business solvency for the peas and autonomes covid. The Government of the State – of Spain – donated €1,000_million to Catalonia to provide direct aid. I'm working on the parenthesis. When we say: "The Government of the State does not give direct help, well, it does not give them because, among other things, it gives them to the communities, among others, to Catalonia. With these 1,000_million euros, which were 7,000 in total... 1,000 went to Catalonia. And between 2020, for example, he donated a set_percent of GDP, the Government of Spain, to fight the coward, as it should be, and transfer them to the Generality, as it should be. How much more good have you been? Obviously. But help is limited, and what we can't do is put us in debt for many years. First of all, we ask for transparency and information on how these aids have been used, to tell us how much aid has been given, for what reason, how many requests have not yet been resolved, how many resources have not been solved – we are aware that there are many people waiting for us, that there is a problem of human resources to solve the shippers who are stuck – as well as why, for example, they have not allowed, as they have been compromised, that companies with party exercises, which operate at school, have not been able to present themselves. Also an addition: we would like you to tell us how is the resolution of the aid of the night octurnal, that we have also received complaints in this sense. According to the question we would like to talk about: what happens to strategic projects. We haven't talked much, but I have to get out here: strategic projects or tractors of the Catalan economy. Why does it cost so much for the government to lead, to engage, to join consensus around big country projects? Without going any further, the end of the week we were in the Valley of Aran. You didn't even send government representation. Well, yes, to be fair, there were the Gerard Figueras, but as responsible for Exteriors ; unless I understand that Old is already the stranger... But, man, I think it was a day where there were many representatives of the territory, many institutional representatives, many mayors, many governors and governors; it was a good day for such a view which was the opinion – this participation that you say –... which is the opinion of the territory. They are territorial projects that, if they do well, generate progress and activity. You say you don't know what's wrong. Salou's CRT has already been told today, too: it seems that they do not see it or that the ones they depend on do not see it well. Barcelona airport has said no; we will lose competitiveness. The Circuit de Catalunya seems to be again a condition for approving the assumptions. Renewables? They say yes, but at the time of truth it seems that we are not moving forward. Like the National Pact for Industry: they say yes, but when you see the 2022 premise, we have a 70_per_cent less money than you do years – a 70_per_cent less money than you do years. I don't know how we'll deploy the National Pact for Industry. Obviously, the extension of the port will be a new chapter, surely, of these disagreements or of this ambiguity. Or like tourism, because we all know that the tourism model is in question, but not just that, but that the money in tourism promotion has also gone down. I think all this infinity, all these are unthinkable to us four days ago. Unthinkable is that Catalonia is thinking one and the other time, rethinking, moving forward, moving back, on whether to push large infrastructures, on whether to make great projects of progress for the territory. In fact, we would not have done many of the great events that we have done in this country, or great infrastructures; in the present circumstances it would have been impossible. I think that, more than saying that not to these projects, what they should say is that not to the opinions of the UPC, try to build other majorities. Because, obviously, all the projects... we all have our opinion here, but I think it's time to decide on what kind of economic projects to look for. We believe that if we go to say no, no, no, no, we will lose opportunities every day. If we say no, no and no, communities like Aragó, València or Balears will pass through our hands. And obviously, the world won't look at us or wait for us, but it will change very quickly, and the projects or infrastructures that don't come here will make them in other places. And, of course, this will make us lose competitiveness. Finally, I would also appreciate it if you could tell us... then I will widen it further, because I am running out of time for the first intervention, but it is very important, and so we agreed to the last point we had here in this Parliament: it was that I should be at the place where important decisions are taken. We lose by incomparability; not all and not always, obviously. So I didn't take it as a whole, but it's true that a lot of important places can do a good job. But if there's a meeting, a summit, a meeting of people with management skills, we're not... obviously at Bernat's table, which isn't counted. And so, too often, at the conference of presidents we have not followed; at the act of SEAT we have not been there; at the act of the Pyrenees we are not, and we are not leading; at the economic summit of the presidents of Aragó, Balears and València we have not been there; at the summit of the Mediterranean Corridor we have not been there; at the high-level meetings in Europe we are not. Therefore, I believe that we cannot lose because of incomparability, but we must win to lead solutions to Catalonia, Spain and Europe. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.181.0	Now you have the word, to make the answer, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Work, Mr Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.182.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr Ordeig. I'll start with the coincidences, why don't you say it later, huh? ... The first coincidence, of course – you too have done it and profited from it every time you come to the Faristol, and of course we also want to add to it –, the recognition of companies, the autonomous and all economic sectors that during these twenty-months or more than twenty-months that are during the pandemic situation have endured, have demonstrated a very important resilience capability. This makes today, after this period, when we already allow restrictions to recede and when there is a certain economic recovery, let us say that, in fact, the reactivation is a fact. Therefore, in the first place, add us to the recognition that you did. Second of all, you were talking about a long look. Certainly, long look, which means strategic look, which means not just to see what's going on today and how we respond to it today, but above all as we have to face up to our own years, in generational claus, even I would say, huh? We are at a cruel moment in which we are deciding what Catalonia will be like in the next few years: we are deciding what we will produce, how we will produce, what we will consume and how we will live our own generations. And now is a key moment in which we are actually taking, by active or passive, directly or indirectly, decisions of these characteristics. And, precisely, the proposal of the Department of Enterprise and Work in this legislature is twofold and goes that way. On the one hand, helping economic recovery, to all the economic and social sectors that have suffered the most. In this sense, we follow the line already laid down by the Government in the last legislature, with direct help to the most affected collectivities. In fact – and the other day we remembered it to the Commission, in the appearance of the assumptions – the Government of the Generality has allocated 182 euros per person with direct help, when the average of the Spanish State is sixty euros per person. This, counting the resources that can come from other administrations, such as the Government of the State, which, in this sense, if they are equal to the conjunction of the State..., obviously, it would still put in more value the fact that the Government of the Generality has allocated 182_euros per person, before sixty of the state's media. Thus, in a first phase, economic recovery. And in a _second, in the medium and long term, prepare us for this transformation of the product model, which is absolutely necessary from many optics. From the start, because it is essential to respond to the challenge at the global level, with its impact at the local level that we have on the table today; in fact, there were already before the covid, but now they have intensified. And there's no more excuses, there's no more excuses for not dealing face-to-face with these reps that will explain to us, explain to society, in their own years. Therefore, changes in the model produced to cope with these challenges, these issues, these problems, conflicts and everything – I would say – at a global level. But at the same time, because, obviously, what we want is not to lose opportunities in a context, the European, where the combination of the economies of the states of our environment are taking strategic decisions linked to many economic sectors. And we have to do exactly the same, if we don't want to lose the competitive train. Therefore, recovery, economic recovery, with a long look; transformation of the product model, with a strategic look. And from this point of view, and with this will to see it more there, to me what I would like to do is, very quickly – and then I will enter into concrete questions that you have commented – a respite of which is the situation in the world, what is happening and how we face it. And answer 'no questions: are we prepared to take advantage of the opportunities that are being given? It is obvious that the basket broke all the chains of administration, supply, production and distribution. And that meant not just a shock from an economic point of view – the world economy stopped – but it also forced us to rethink the exercise. And in this connection, in this context, many companies that at a certain time had decided to shift production out of Europe are now planning to return to Europe, are planning to reschedule their activities on our continent. And we are willing to take advantage of this context, this window of opportunity. We need to know how to take advantage of it, because this is an engine of wealth creation, sense of doubt; generation of jobs, too; but also, in the line of what we have planted before, this can help us to make this transformation of the product model we want to make. And, in this sense, obviously, they are calling for resources, because there is not enough to be well prepared for these investments, these projects of natural above all industrial, but we have to have enough public resources to support them. And, in this sense, it is true that the European foundations, the Next Generation, represent an opportunity as never before given to Europe. Perhaps the equivalent would be the Marshall plan, but since then, like at least, there has been no injection, an expansive policy of these characteristics by the European Union. I, therefore, need to know how to take advantage of it. The Next Generation, the European foundations, of course, are an opportunity. To the State it corresponds 140,000_million euros, which must have this tractor power. But, because tin, they must not only be destined to carry out those tasks that the European Union marks for us and which, in some way, pose the paradigm associated with sustainability and resilience, transformation, green economic transition and digitalisation, but must come to the joint venture of the country's business fabric. And the 99,8_per_cent of Catalonia's corporate fabric are peppers. So, obviously, if we want to take advantage of this power of the Next Generation, this has to come to the limes. And I assure you, it doesn't really help that this ends up giving the real business fabric of the country the fact that there are lines of help as the Spanish government is doing; for example, laying the lines of help to industry 4.0, cable, in full August and leaving two days to present projects to it. You said: "We have to empathize with entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. So, empathize with it and put it on the skin of a small or medium-sized businessman who, in August, gives it a basic line so that he can modernize its production process and is left to present it with a project, which, for another band, is sophisticated, it is complex, which involves an important engineering job. God's full of august. That doesn't help to get to the peppers, and it's imperative that we get to it. We have also arrived with the help of solvency, with the Royal Decree 5/2021. And if we were to say that things aren't doing well at the level of the Next Generation, neither have things been done well with the Royal Decree 5/2021, which was planted with some input design vices that we've tried to overcome, that we've tried to fix with the different calls we've made. And you were asking for concrete figures, respect that. So, last November 4th was the payment of the second call, concretely 150_millions, that have reached 7,258 enterprises and autonomes. That's the second call. That, if we add to the first one, we arrive at the deployment of 605_million euros, and we have reached 25,011 beneficiaries– 605_million euros, 25,011 beneficiaries. And it's on the way, as you know, to the third call. The Social Dialogue Council was asked last week – we set it up, and the employers agreed and applauded it, in a way – this third call, which is now on the way and which we hope can reach even more autonomies and entrepreneurs than these 25,011 have already benefited. Therefore, help the productive sectors that have suffered the most, all the more, say so. We've made all the efforts we've been able to. In fact, we're the territory of the State that's most worked out in this sense to help reactivation, huh? He was talking about strategic projects, too, you guys. He's made a little bit of a revolution, huh? , to his inquiry. I understand that, because then, I guess, the young lady will want to talk about a lot of things, but here we have limited time; I'm sure we're going to continue talking to her not just in the next five minutes, but when I convince her. He was talking, you know, about strategic projects. And I did it with a look that I'd say it's a lot of the 20th century, not to mention the 19th century, acritic: of growth for growth, of "all projects are fine, of "anything that is planted and placed on the table is fine. And I'd like us to have an attitude – not us as the government, but the conjunction of the country's institutions, for which we give to the principle, eh? , because we play the Catalonia of our own years – more close to the 21st century, more analytical. Today things are different fans. And I think that citizenship is ripe enough to understand that most projects, by definition, are not good or bad for entry: they must be studied, the pros must be seen, the contras must be calibrated, and, in any case, an accurate analysis of each of these projects must be done. And if they are sustainable projects, if they are projects that have a positive impact on the territory and, above all, if they are consensus projects with large majority, they are certainly, of course, projects in position; but, if not, they refer us to a model that is absolutely out of date. So, you're making the long list of projects, aren't you? So, acritically, and, obviously, here we should go into the matter and set up, in each of these projects, what benefits and what contras it entails for the country, and, from here on, make decisions. I think this is the European scheme, we could say so, the 21st century scheme, which is to which we want to attach ourselves. I'll be right back. He's dealt with a lot of issues, I'm sure he'll be dealing with them more now. If we can then respond. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.183.0	The word has the deputy Óscar Ordeig, in the time of replication.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.184.0	Oh, counselor, where do I start? [[Rialles.]] My mother, Aviam, I'll take a sentence that was told to Old Man the other day. Is that... oysters, do you think we want the destruction of our territory? That they want to abuse [[some applause]] Tarragona, Girona, the Jew, our mountains, our future? Listen, we want to be opportunities. And, grabbing that bell..., he said: "Well done work has no borders. It's the right thing to do – it's the right thing to do; it's the right thing to do – but who do they take us for? For incompetent people who don't know how to organize big international events? If Barcelona, Catalonia, we have shown ourselves to the world precisely many times with great international events that have placed us as a reference; if people still talk about the Olympic Games of 92... With its indefiniteness, is it far-fetched, today, the games? No, no. No, because, of course, you have to look at each other and look at each other so much... we did this, the pros, the cons and I don't know what... listen, no. Obviously, things must be done well; not speculative championships and infrastructures that do not serve the king. But, I'm sorry, it's that the Pirinaeus is dying, it's that there won't be anyone left. I, at this point, or it's moving a little bit from the comfort zone... And we're giving them our hands. It's just, what else can we say? We are willing to give in, we are willing not to follow our opinion, but they must move. I can't be 'no' to everything—'no to everything. In the end, not because you say that you do not share it, but because, of course, you want to make so many reflections on the reflections that in the end it is not moving. The question is, can we do more? They can do more, can't they? With the resources we have, with the difficulties we have, with which everything is very complex... we know that. Can the Government of Catalonia do more? The question is, yes. The Government of Catalonia, on the margins of the national theme...? To me it seems very good: you are independent, it does not happen, but there are many other things that unite us, yes or no? Are they joining us or not? Well, sure, maybe not, huh? - Maybe not. But I think so. So, well, we put them here on the table continuously, many times. Okay. And, listen, let us not deceive ourselves – let us not deceive ourselves – that if you were here talking, then, discreetly, calmly, there would be many things that, obviously, if it weren't for other connotations, we would agree. We have a lot of work to do. The European Commission is getting some innovation in the European regions...., I say, oysters, it is here that we also have a lot of use to do. We're not too bad, but we could be better. Listen, he told me things about the government of Spain. Listen, I'm not coming here to answer for the Government of Spain. I mean, I, in any case, come ask questions about the Government of the Generality, which is for something the Parliament of Catalonia. You are here and you want the republic to the Parliament of Catalonia, but the only thing they do is subject the debates to what happens in Madrid. No, no, we need to look at what happens to Catalonia and Parliament, for a good government – for a good government. And I'd ask you, too, to complain to us about a good opposition, huh? I also take advantage of a record – and also to set the alarm – for a relocation process of the Vilanova and Geltrú company, which here we have our company telling us that today they have announced the relocation of the factory, with 350 people, 350 families that will remain unworkable, if no solution is sought for the company of components of the car. So, we have work, we have a lot of work, it's that all this is very complex. And, as we believe, that's why it will also allow us to follow the most demands with you. I say, help them. He told me part of the help. Please, more resources to resolve shippers in time and form. Great events. Esconti, yes or no? [[The timer laughs.]] Counselor, please, the government... the government has to stop. And it has to be done well, we share it – it has to be done well – but it has to be done. We have many opportunities, and if we don't take them, they'll take some more. I understand that we do not coincide in the cent_per_cent of the projects that we have said here, but, man, some yes– some yes. We have a presence where our interests are played. Listen, we have to be. The Catalans have been distinguishing us for many years, and the Catalans, to be not from Catalonia, Spain, Europe..., the world! , trying to defend the interests of our territories, our way of hearing things, and providing solutions. I don't know at what point we started to stare at each other, to make ourselves small and to make – forgive the expression, or the joke, eh? – the roundabout. Let's go to the angry places: "How angry I am because we have a lot of problems and there are things that haven't been solved, so I don't go to meetings, I don't go to summits, I don't go to where the Mediterranean Corridor is defending, because I think they won't listen to me. Well, of course, obviously. Do you know how to get agreements? All the understandings of the history of humanity, do you know what they're talking about? Anticipated disagreement – anticipated disagreement –; disagreement, dialogue, negotiation, divestments and agreement. So, please, let's go to places, have a clear project, defend projects of well done territories. I, please, let's move out of the comfort zone. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.185.0	There's a word from the business and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.186.0	All right. Well, Congressman, he's back to insist. "Things must be done well," he said. Home, yes, so, with general criteria, we are completely in agreement. And precisely to do the right thing, I, when I come out here, try to expose who are all the elements, more or less objectively – obviously, every one of his ideology –, of all the things that the State poses and that have not worked and that we have tried to fix from here, basically to give answer not so much to you – that also, obviously – but to citizenship. And when you come out here and say, "You're going to be all right, things, and I'm going to tell you about the state, then you don't know, as if you didn't. So it turns out that, obviously, if you claim that we are doing well, you mean that you were claiming it for the joint administration, especially at a time when the Spanish State is responsible for 140,000_million euros coming from Europe, that they are not pro-Spanish, coming from Europe, and therefore from the effort, between others, Catalans and Catalans. And when we claim to be able to influence the management of European foundations as a government, and therefore also from the control and initiative of the Catalan Parliament, you don't say much about this, do you? We have not heard them say anything about it, obviously, that from Catalonia we can decide a part of these European foundations. But, likewise, with this..., we have this week set up, we have explained an office..., the Next Generation fund office, a business office where entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises, above all, in the country will be able to head to advise themselves, to work on projects, because, somehow, we share the orientation so that we can be more competitive in these calls. We aspire to more than twenty per cent of these European foundations. Twenty per cent is Catalonia's pesso, as you know, in the conjunction of the GDP of the State; therefore, we aspire to have a little more. All right. There's this speech now, isn't there? , which tries to pose in fashion to hang lufes, politically speaking..., the expression of "not at all. So look, if we have to talk about "not everything, he" isn't all the Spanish government, huh? Systematically and historically. Because here, when he came to talk about projects, I didn't hear him talking about rollers, for example, or the Mediterranean Corridor. Oh, yes! , that we go to complain to us, the Mediterranean Corridor. I understand that you are part of the Spanish government; so that you have lives, too, to be sure to speak. He said: "Let us not give up any fall, let us not give up any space. And the PSC, which occupies all that can benefit the citizens of Catalonia? [[Some applause.]] Because I think I could do more. Therefore, the "not to all historically has followed the Spanish Government. Since the 75th that did not invest a euro in the rolling stock service – certainly, that every day they take 400,000 Catalans and Catalans, these autonomies of which you spoke, and that obviously we must recognize the super-effort they make, because, if they had to talk about rolling stock, their negotiations would be arranged. He also spoke before the National Pact for Industry. Obviously, this is the instrument that must be used by us to make the roadmap to define this path up to the twenty-five percent of the industry's gross domestic product, which is an objective that, as it became clear to the Commission on the other day, we share most of the parliamentary groups. Therefore, I am convinced that we will all participate in the consensus in the elaboration of the National Pact for Industry. A national pact for industry which, among other things, must allow us to have foundations for reindustrialisation, but also protocols for action in cases of industrial closure, such as Mahle's, Vilanova and Geltrú. That, indeed, it is a hard time for a company, in this case, to assist the automotive sector, a sector that is patenting the costs of transition to a new model and that we need to know how to accompany, which we need to help in this process. We have already transferred, obviously, to the workers, to the mayor of Vilanova and the Geltrú, our commitment to work with the best possible resolution in this situation. And to 350 workers, to the 350 families, therefore, send them a message of compromise by the Government of the Government of Catalonia to help them in this situation, which is complicated. We have already spoken to the management of the company, and we are convinced that we will be able to establish a negotiation process as we have opened in other processes of, unfortunately, also some of which are linked to the automotive industry. In short, Members, we share the need to reindustrialize the country – we told the committee the other day – to deepen innovation. And at the same time you know, as much as you have been insisting on this song, in this speech, that the Government of the Government of Catalonia is committed to participating there where we can really get benefits for the city of Catalonia, and, in any case, to preparing this country for the post-coved world that we have already begun to live. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.187.0	Let us turn to the sixth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the social economy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. [[Question to the Government on the social economy]] [[300-00075/13]] First of all, you have the word to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Alba Camps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.188.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, public to accompany us... This inquiry is especially relevant, because we are talking about a more effective tool to give answer to many of the reptes that are debated in this hemisphere to resolve many of the concerns that we raise. Eight months have passed since this legislature to speak in a plethora of social and solidary economy. Glad that Esquerra Republicana is on the political agenda; glad that the law of social and solidary economy is part of this government's plan. And convinced of the need for an impulse and a public recognition more than I deserve in the economy for the common good, an economy that has gone far beyond rich money, which we traditionally always understand. Therefore, a thanks to those people you bring rich in capitals, which is economic, social, environmental, democratic and just. Our parliamentary group is working towards the goal of bringing about the four transformations or revolutions: the green, the feminist, the democratic and the socio-economic. If we talk about transforming, we also talk about taking different perspectives. The social economy not only transforms the economy itself, but also society in general. It is the economy serving people, not the people serving the economy: from green transformation, with energy consumption cooperatives, to social transformation, with the empowerment of working people, through democratic transformation, with participatory governance and economic democracy. And obviously, taking care of the feminist transformation and recognizing that there is not only the historically known work as the product, but also incorporating the work – invisible – reproduction and cures that we mostly realize the women. In addition, we are talking about a multisectoral economy that enables basic needs to be met, such as housing, food, health, cures, and which, moreover, allows us to donate services and innovative responses in finance, energy, logistics, technology, culture, telecommunications, mobility..., and could continue. And, besides, it's applicable to the territory. There are proposals of all sizes and across the country, from rural areas to more urban areas. "Ubuntu is a traditional African word that in the world of the economy would be translateable by winning only if we all won. Our society has decades of driving economic growth regardless of whether or not it leads to better welfare, and this idea of old radically changes it: "We only win if we all win. Moreover, the social and solidarity economy has proved to be able to organize quickly to respond to the limited situations we have experienced. It also turned out to be part of the response to the emergence. And it precisely did so because it is current and changing according to the needs and opportunities of the moment. And it was also because of its own community and cooperation essence. The people-oriented economy has arrived where, unfortunately, the Administration has not always been able to arrive. An economy centered on benevolentness attaches to the work the value that it really has to have in all cases. We need to promote the economy that makes us walk towards a fairer society and a more egalitarian society. And this model change must also be used to fight against job insecurity. Yesterday, counselor, he informed us that a job inspection will sanction franchises from a chain of supermarkets. Motivations: fraud in the contract, lack of contracts, lack of social security or illegal cessation of workers, among other day-to-day offences, risks and work with minors, and the saddest is that I could follow. And it is that the economies are found between an ample fork, in their forms. If we go to the extreme, we find ourselves, for a band, this: abusive enterprises like this, that devalue the strength of the work to the maximum, an economy that makes us poorer individually and collectively, enterprises that in the background denigrate their workers and tend against the state of welfare with their labor, extractive and fiscal practices. It is time to set the globe of this labor exploitation and of corporate violence, to set it up and to defend the rights of workers and workers, not to praise models of precariousness as some have done so far. The model we want is the model of decent work. And more in view of the fact that the other gang of fork has the option of savings that maximize the wealth quantitatively and qualitatively, that give value to people, to the benefit, to the environment, to the territories, to relationships. Where do we go? We're clear on that. And, besides, we're not talking about an abstract or utopian idea. Let's talk about a reality that has been in existence for many years, that goes from the moon: Catalonia has been a pioneer in co-operativeism since the Industrial Revolution. Go from the moon and, more importantly, pull over. In our country we find many examples and with many objectives. For example, co-operatives from the territories who work to fix people in rural surroundings. To the Solsonès, to cite two examples: Territories of Massies, which promotes life to the people, and Biolord, which gives a productive value to the land with the ecological tree of mountain. Each time we feel to speak more, also, of cooperative housing projects, already in cessation of use or to promote the suitable housing: La Titaranya, of Valls, or La Borda, among many others. In some cases, focused on dynamizing old barrels in a more precarious situation, or directly with the purpose of restocking. To Sales, for example, to Bergedà, neix the Energy Cooperative Pedraforca, which gives energy to the inhabitants of the municipality: civic empowerment, community public collaboration and green transformation. In feminist spaces, special mention was made of Pa'lante Women, a project for monitoring and empowering migrant women. What do we intend, with this inquiry? This inquiry attempts to put on the table the public-community collaboration as the answer and as the bet, encouraging socioeconomic initiatives that work with the vocation of public service. It is time to set it up as a more than attractive option, that we equip it with the legitimacy it deserves. We need to consider social and solidary economic actors as leading economic agents. Therefore, they have to occupy the space of debate, the space of decision, the space of impulse that at this time other economic actors have historically always considered and always represented. In front of such a powerful tool, what it is to set up a standard _frame that protects it. Counselor, it is time that Catalonia had a law of the social and solidary economy, a law of impulse, a law that guarantees the preservation of the work that is taking place and that facilitates the sort of option. And what else can we do, from the Public Administration? I have said this: legitimising, making visible and claiming, from all administrations, transformative economies as first-class economic agents. A full recognizance is required. We must also promote responsible consumption, both of the Administration and of the citizenry. All people must be able to access the responsible purchase. At this time, it cannot be obvious that there are certainly socio-economic limitations which make it possible for many to remain willing, but rather to be unable to do so. We don't just have to encourage this conscious purchase, but we also have to make it accessible to everyone and everyone. For what it does to the Administration directly, responsible public contract, from the together smaller to the Government of the Generalitat. It is clear that we still have legislative limitations that we need to know how to reverse. For partisan tactics, in fact, we lost a great opportunity to promote the social economy to public contract and to serve people. But, before a huge effort on the part of the companies, agreements in many sectors and consensus proposals, always, always, always insistence and determination. We'll do it, because it's essential in hours now. Look, when you walk, coast; when you innovate, coast; when you plant different points of view, usually also coast. Although it costs, it's an effort they won't have to make them come. From the Republican Left we believe in innovation, we believe in progress and change in favor of the welfare of people and society. We have to do what it takes. Local governments, often with limited resources, are the ones that have so far been the spearhead of these models. So, we need to minimize these limitations. Finance to boost it, technical gathering based on the expert and with access to the wider territory, as are the cooperative athenaeums, and a legal framework that facilitates the adoption and choice of this transformative economy. This legislation must protect the social economy. It is a very valuable idea as not to shield it and care for its essence, avoiding that those who always adopt the title but do the opposite in form and in the background, ill-methent, obviously, the concept. I ended with a quote from José Luis Sampedro, who said: "It is necessary to create a more humane, more solidary economy, able to contribute to developing the dignity of the people. And to do so, therefore, two good news: the first is that this economy, counselor, already exists, and the second is that we have the opportunity to make it grow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.189.0	The words of the business and work advisor, Mr. Roger Torrent, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.190.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Thank you for bringing to this Chamber an inquiry around the social and solidary economy, which will give us the opportunity, effectively, then, to be able to work on a motion of principles, values and concretes in which you will be sure to participate in the joint parliament, and that in the end strengthens the movement. A movement, an economy, which, as you said to end, exists, there is and goes from the moon. In fact, the social and solidary economy has maintained, along the 20th century and the 21st century – you very much placed it in the beginning or parallel to the first Industrial Revolution, effectively... As the economy experienced this transformation, it also, in parallel, emerged from this movement of the social and solidary economy, which has maintained the same principles and values along all these years. Certainly, adapting them to each reality, because each moment is different, because the economy itself has evolved, and also the social and solidary economy, but always connected, anchored, to principles and values that have perpetuated over time and that are associated with democratic governance, equity, equality, the sense of cooperation also in the not only economic sphere, but fraternal – we could say so, and involvement in the territory, around which each of these experiences of social and solidary economy is located. What has not changed over time is its value of social transformation. Precisely, the added value of the social and solidary economy is this ability to generate new consciousness and to change certain elements of the model that do not work or that are far removed from this economy for life, that puts people and life at the center, that we want for the future and that we want for our children and girls. But, in any case, the value of social transformation has always been there: at the beginning of the 20th century, bringing concepts such as solidarity, equity and consciousness, and so on; then, then, this crystallized into a movement every time stronger until it was endowed with a proper standard mark. Since we are in the Parliament of Catalonia, we have to put in value, for example, that the first law was made here the year 34, driven by the then deputy and then adviser Joan Ventosa, which was the law of bases of cooperation. This, obviously, as everything else, during the franchise disappeared, and in the democratic restitution the cooperative movement and the social and solidary economy were essential to support the democratic values. And today we are in a new paradigm, in which, as you said, we have to face these four great transformations that President Aragones poses and that are essential to face with guarantees the Catalonia he sees: the green transformation, the feminist transformation, the social transformation and the democratic transformation. In all four, the social and solidarity economy does not just have to say, but it is a lever of change, a phone tool to guarantee them in full condition all four. And, before this paradigm, which precisely benefits the growth of the social and solidary economy, it is essential that, in the same way that at the time at the first half of the 20th century it was done, today we also have a legislative environment, a legal environment, which can allow us to stretch all the transformative potential that this economy has. And, indeed, it is essential that we have the law of the social and solidary economy. Actually, as you should know, Member, and as Members and Members know, we approved the preliminary memo a few weeks ago, a couple of months ago. He's working on the joint of the text because he can get right into this room, and so you can work the law yourself, which, for another band, I insist, is essential if we want to take advantage of the context, from this point of view. And what do you want to do, the law? So, obviously, create this legal framework, generate tools for the development of the social and solidary economy. At these times there are 7,422 organizations in the country, but we want many more, and we want them stronger, stronger and more able to compete. Therefore, legal status, promotion, but also recognition and institutional representativeness. And, therefore, that there is an explicit recognition of the law and that this gives little to participation in public decisions affecting them. And in the decisions that institutions make, that the social and solidary economy is also represented, that their gaze is present. All this is what must guarantee a law that will allow us to create, as we said before, new organizations; to allow those that already exist to grow, to take up more muscles, more weights, more strength, and, finally, also – and this is essential not only for the economy, but also specifically for this sector – that we can have innovation tools. Therefore, the law is a fundamental element. And, as you know, therefore, one of the priorities of the Department of Enterprise and Work..., as I said before, we are already drafting the text so that you can enter this chamber, and therefore you can argue. But not only law is important; executive measures, too. While we do not have this legal mark, it is essential that the Government responds, through public resources, through the decisions we make, to the social and solidary economy. And, in this sense, I would like to highlight the..., I would like to highlight them because they are projects that have a reasonable success and of which we are not satisfied, because they have a positive impact on the country's joint. He wanted to name the Singular projects here – he also spoke to the Member, you did not speak – with a presumption of EUR 3.5_million; the programme of support for the cooperative pole and the ecosystems of the social and solidary economy, with a presumption of EUR 600,000; the Ateneus Cooperatius Network – he also spoke – a project that is working very well in the territory, which constitutes these points, these reference nodes, which are also essential to promote the creation of social and solidary economic organizations, endowed, in this case, with EUR 4.8_million by 2021. And the programme of support for the incorporation of formary contents into co-operativeism and social and solidary economy at Catalan universities; it is essential, too, that the university students of this country, when they plan to leave the university and create their own businesses, think that there is the mark of the social and solidary economy. And, finally, the support program for the creation of student cooperatives, also very important and an experience that is very interesting. This, however, for the measures we are already taking, in view of the assumptions of 2022, we have made a very remarkable injection of resources in this area and which must allow us to make a leap forward, as you requested in your intervention. And in this sense, it means that, in the area of an economy for life..., of the five axes that the Enterprise and Work Department holds, an economy for life, that is, of course, closely linked to the field that today is the protagonist of this inquiry, in which 223.7 million euros are spent, is to say, an 18.3_percent of the whole of the department's budget, a xifra people who are undervalued. Obviously, we all want to have more resources and be able to spend more money on it, but in any case, this 18.3_per_cent I think shows who is interested and who is the department's willingness in this area. In fact, I have shown so much that this xifra supposes an increment of 49,3_per_cent respects the assumptions of 2020; therefore, an increase of almost fifty_per_cent respects the previous accounts, precisely in order to be able to make this leap forward from which we spoke. In short, it is a legal framework and tools for development, precisely to promote – and around the principle – those values, those principles that are traditional of the social and solidarity economy, that have never changed and that today are more essential than ever; today, that we all fill our mouths to talk about putting people in the center and that the socioeconomic model takes more account of the community and takes more into account than until..., one thing that we have after during the covet, or that we have stopped during the pandemic, that is, that we are not all preserved until we are all and each of us; communityally we are not able to secure until each and every one of us is completely preserved. This logic, which I insist on, we have followed during the cove, is that which has always inspired the movement of the social and solidary economy, which, as I said earlier, has historically been the protagonist of the great transformations, also, of this country, and that at these times it is essential to face this transformation of the model of production that we have mentioned earlier, to the previous inquiry, and that it must have a cooperative content, a solidary content, a content of equity and equality and a relation to the territory, which will certainly provide us with the social and solidary economy. That's why we're doing the law, and that's why we're still betting on it. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.191.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on cultural policies]] [[300-00071/13]] Let us turn to the agenda item, the question to the Government on cultural policies, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Rocio Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.192.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, honourable councillor... This week he presented the premise of his department for exercise 2022, and, as we have already been able to say, we see an effort to make it grow, but we start from very low levels of public investment in the past few years. We believe that it is still an insufficient assumption and little ambition, but we recognize him that he wants to try to recover lost forts after the detail of the governments of the Generality and start putting on many years of shadows for culture. It is not the assumption that we would have done to gather, recover and advance the culture of Catalonia and to start this path of economic recovery from a sector that is heavily punished for the pandemic and the restrictions that it has entailed in outages and closures. Because, she advises, the cultural sectors need and demand two percent of the Generality's assumption as quickly as possible. Implementing cultural policies is an emergence, because the world of living culture has long been in crisis. Let us remember that in this Parliament, with vast majority of the Chamber groups, both 2019 and 2020 came to an agreement for the financing of culture. Having two_per_cent of the premise for culture was the compromise. The government has to complete it, and it looks like it's still going to come true, if we're going this way. He was able to feel it already in the Butaca awards, to Mataró: the theatrical sector reminded him, to you and the President of the Generality, that it is urgent to complete with the compromise that the Generality intended this two_per_cent to culture. Associations, industry and businesses in the sector, theatre professionals, the performing arts, political will and immediate action to save culture. And you'll tell me you agreed to get there in four presupposed exercises, and you say that at the end of the term, but we're already too late. Cultural policies in Catalonia urgently need economic resources and public investment from the Generality. Culture is the 3.5_percent of Catalonia's GDP and generates more than a hundred_ thousand direct jobs. Culture is a priority. Our companion and esteemed Rafel Bruguera already said, at the end of the doccene legislature, that that same one was failed in cultural matter. And I would say to you today, Constable Garriga: "Let's change the course now. Be brave, she's not allowed to wear it for who she tells her culture can keep waiting four years longer. You don't think he has the whole legislature left to get to that percentage, because in this Parliament you never know... you never know what's going to happen to the assumptions, and you never know when the legislature ends. Some do not arrive, others are extended, and you don't know when you can count on moving the country forward and helping the workers and the workers of culture. A society without public policies supporting creation is not an advanced, open, plural or forward-looking society. Today I wanted to explain something that we have already shared with him in many moments, but I want to give him an intervention of his own in this very Ple, in which he said: "We work together to have a multilingual society where all languages are in equal conditions, starting with Catalan. He also told us, in this plenary, that you have helped in the literature in the castle and also in the audiovisual production in the castle, and many films in the castle. Counselor, we agree that we must protect the català and also the castle. We need to reinforce and advance the model of linguistic immersion promoted in the 1980s. Let us remember that two of the first municipalities of Catalonia where this immersion was applied were Santa Coloma de Gramenet and Cornellà del Llobregat. We feel compromised with linguistic normalization centres such as integration and social cohesion. And because we want to defend the català we also voted in favour of pushing the national pact for the català. The president of our parliamentary group also made it very clear in this Parliament that we want to protect all the co-official languages with the new general law of audiovisual communication, in the foreground of which the Government of Spain is working, and we will also continue to work for the financing of doubling in Catalan. The field of audiovisual is a priority for us, too, and it needs doubling, subtitle and also a lot of creation. But the audiovisual sector and cinema need support. We see that the help of the year 20 is very important. Do not specify which language is supported, and we are not clear whether the cinema and also the audiovisual productions that are made in the castle will be supported, too, on behalf of its consultancy. That's why we're asking you: do you consider the aid for audiovisual production that is made in Catalonia in castle? Do you consider that the castle is in equal condition to Catalonia, in respect of cultural production? Speaking of editions, the Gremi d'Editors de Catalunya gives us some data, and we see that these data outnumbers production in castle and not in català. We also see that the Consortium of the Ramon Llull Institute, which relies on its department, only granted aid of EUR 131,000 in 2020. They seem weak to us. Do you think that's enough? Where are the help of the Generalitat for the creation and publishing of literature written in Catalonia in castle? We haven't found them. Constellera Garriga, in her reply, which she gave us on 8 November, confirmed that there is a multilingual context, but help for the preservation of the language in the castle we did not find. We would appreciate it if you could explain it to us, because there are associations and entities that have been waiting for the support of the Council of Culture for a long time. They're also a culture fan, the ones who do it in the castle. And also a subject that we have talked about in committee and that today we would like to do is: the General Directorate of Popular Culture and Cultural Associationism. We've already said it and we'll say it again, let's celebrate that this direction goes back to Culture, that it's from where I should never have come out. The assumption in relation to popular culture seems to increase; we also celebrated it, and we say it again. But we want to know, Counselor, how will this increase be translated into what it does to entities also of popular and traditional culture that do not serve Catalan language; what recovery will they give to their activities? Catalonia has historically been a land of concentration, a country that does not exclude anyone who comes to live and work, an example always of coexistence and cultural diversity. The Government of the Generality has to age because it is still that way, just as our families did when they arrived in the fifties and sixties to help build the cities and towns of Catalonia, and as they have done after other cultures since the nineties. This makes us think that resources have to be put in place, that they have to be put in place, on the part of his office. And that's what we want to ask him today: what resources will he allocate to this new general direction that now passes to Culture? How are you going to put it? What dialog can be set up with these entities? Catalonia's popular culture has been one of the worst in these two years of health restrictions. About 500,000 people are socies and pay a share to entities in Catalonia, and of them 23,000 participate in governing bodies of these entities in an unselfish manner, mostly. And the sector in Catalonia has an economic impact linked to voluntary work amounting to €600,000, a very large amount. For this reason, counsel, we think that support programs should be directed to these entities, also, of popular and traditional culture, to all these expressions; obviously, also to the Federation of Athenaeus, to all those entities of Catalan art culture, but also to the rest, those that make culture in castle, in gallec, in any expression of the cultures from which they originate. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.193.0	To answer, the words of the Culture Counsellor, Mrs. Nattalia Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.194.0	Thank you, President. Bona tarta, deputy Rocio Garcia; Bona tarta, remains of deputies and deputies. As you said, this week we presented the premise of the Department of Culture for the year 2022, which increases and stands at 389,4_million euros. This means that it increases by 28.3_per_cent to the last approved accounts. It is very good news, an important leap that allows us to move forward to the two per cent that we have committed ourselves to at the end of the legislature. We all agree that we would want more. All advisors and advisors from any government want the maximum amount of money for their department, but getting to this 1,3_per_cent..., is a good figure, which will help us get to two_per_cent. It's our commitment, it's this government's commitment. The most significant increase in the department's budget is in Chapters 4 and 7, which are the ones who have to deal with both aid to cultural activity and investment in equipment. This means that the greatest increase in these assumptions is in the sector, the people who work there, equipment and events. We have said for the first time: every euro invested in culture must have the maximum transformative potential for people. All the units of the Department of Culture grow above the twenty-i-five_per_cent in relation to its presupposition of the year 2020, and the greatest effort was meant to be in two general directions, as I explained to you already to our appearance the past diludes: that of Popular Culture and Associationism, which grows a forty-u_per_cent, because it was much underdoed, and that of Innovation and Digital Culture, that it is a new general direction, absolutely transversal, and, therefore, all the endowment we have made is net; we are talking about 3.6_millions of chapters 4 and 7, plus 2_millions more to finance – so, 5.6_millions. From the Directorate General of Popular Culture, just make one morning: we do not have a new Directorate General of Popular Culture and Associationism; what we have is that the competence that the Department of Presidency held until now in relation to regional cases has passed to Culture, and therefore is within this Directorate General of Popular Culture and Associationism. This is where the regional boxes are found. The only fact that since this legislature the cases in question become part of the Department of Culture and not of the Presidency is already a declaration of intent. It shows how we conceive of Catalan culture, which is open and diverse, as it has always been, and which respects the exploits of everyone, in the same way that it also demands that others respect Catalonia's own. Because they must agree that Catalonia is a plural, crowded country, as you have already said, where no one has to give up their cultural developments in order to build a shared future project. A country made of diversity of origins, languages and cultures, which enrich us as a collection and which are of cohesion and social progress. Regional cases are tools of integration, socialization, cohesion and community building. Its dependence on the Directorate-General for Popular Culture and Associationism must allow for greater coordination and cooperation, thus promoting the development of its representative activities and putting them at the expense of the rest of the country's entities working in the field of popular culture. In order to manage it, they transferred to the Department of Culture EUR 170,000 for the convening of a specific line of grants, managed until 2020 for the Department of the Presidency. Enguany filed thirty-four requests, valued thirty and awarded twenty-five. The total amount of these concession proposals amounts to EUR 169,000. We do not expect any increase in the amount of the 2022 requirement, because this year's endowment has been sufficient for all the requests submitted. If you had been insufficient, we would have increased it and predicted this increase. We show a clear will to grow folds, to enrich ourselves together, to learn from each other. In fact, access to culture is one of the priorities of our department. We have four, in total: access to culture, creation of a cultural reference system, audiovisual and language. These are the areas in which we will engage in this legislature. With regard to language and language, which asked me, and returning to the assumption, the department will increase the assumption of the Language Policy Secretary from €31.2 million to €38.8 million. The councillor, as you know, because we have already explained it, will push forward the national language pact and devote €450,000 to the technical work of this pact, and will also increase the contributions to normalization of the orange and diffusion of the Catalan sign language. The Department of Culture will also allocate 27.7_million euros – a 17.3_per_cent more resources – to improve accessibility to Catalan language and increase its levels of knowledge in the adult population and new speakers. Because, as you know, and as you also said, and as we all share, Catalonia is a multilingual country, where more than three hundred languages are spoken. In this context, the Catalan language, the Arabic language and the Catalan sign language, which are languageless without state support, require the support decided by the Catalan Administration. Your future depends on how you take care of them and the policies we make from our government and the rest of the governments of the Catalan-speaking territories. We want everyone to have access to the Catalan language, and I trust you have the same concern. Since the Secretary of Linguistic Policy of the Department of Culture we are working to be able to draw up the national pact for language. They already know that we are now in a first phase of design that will allow us to identify and plan effectively what we want the pact to be. I know that a lot of parties in this room would want me to talk more about politics to strengthen the castle, and I understand that, because it's a language that we don't want to lose either, but it's not the case, it's not much less. We have said it in full, we have said it in committee: the castle enjoys a very good greeting to Catalonia. Almost the hundred_per_cent of the people who permanently reside in Catalonia understand it, speak it, read it, write it... Just walk around and look at a kiosk, or look at the folder, or the offer of communication media, to know that the castle is in good health. Therefore, this language is perfectly normalized in society. We would like this concern for linguistic normalization to be expressed by all parliamentary groups in this chamber, as well as by the manifesto, with respect to the normalization of the Catalan language, the orange language and the sign language. Also comment on it – and we have already done so in the committee – that from Catalonia we are already promoting a lot of Spanish language through the Cervantes. You know perfectly well that we said that, looking only at three parties of the general assumptions of the State, we were devoting 273_million euros, of which 52, surely, come from our butxaks, from the Catalans, right? On the Catalan language we have advanced from the starting point where we were, but we have data to show that we have not met the normalization objectives that we have proposed and for which we must continue to work. In terms of social scope, we want absolutely everyone to have access to the Catalan language. The first need we detect is to strengthen the training offer and encourage the adoption of language among the adult population, reinforcing the Consortium's action for Linguistic Normalization. Language learning only takes place if, in addition to training, you can speak Catalan with equals and in a relaxed way. It is necessary to enhance the follow-up of people who learn the català to the consortium with the programs« From the classroom to the street, lines like those of « Trades learn, networks of equals, etcetera. These tasks are unthinkable if it wasn't for the volunteer network for language and non-formal training, and that's why we'd reinforce it. Languages are the most important tools of cohesion that we can provide with society. Looking forward, we find a common space to advance and reach broad consensus, peaceful among all the language management – I know you do –, we pose ourselves as the object of the collection. There are two types of language that coexist in our home: one is economically protected, institutionally protected, and some have problems with living. We work together to have a multilingual society where all languages are in equal conditions, starting with Catalan. In relation to the lines that I was asking myself, in relation to the lines that are given to the department for the promotion of the Spanish language, in fact what I explained – and I think that's what I explained to my later intervention – is that there are many lines that do not favor the two languages, but that can be presented to any of the two languages: the lines of input that can be reintegrated into the edition, the lines of audio-visual production... The only thing is that, if you do it in the Catalan original version, you have more insight and you can have more access to the help, but it does not discriminate in the case of the Spanish language. That's what I tried to explain the last time. Therefore, in all these areas we will like to keep a dialog with you and know your points of view. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.195.0	Thank you very much. Mrs. Rocio Garcia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.196.0	Thank you. Honourable Counselor, it is clear that we have commonalities, that we have shared them and that we will certainly finish talking to them. But we did not want to be so concrete in the use of the castle, but in the reinforcement of the cultural policies that are fan in the castle. And we wanted to say this because we found that we have had creators and creators of the audiovisual sector of cinema, also of the publishing – writers, writers – who tell us that it is true that they are open, these lines, but that at the time of truth they do not feel that, when they make literature in castle, the Council of Culture, their department, give them support. And it's important that this look is tingu. And it seems to me that the other day... I don't know if I gave it to you, but at some point we had commented: we must avoid radicalism. And we're not for radicalism, not much less. We are for consensus, for centrality and for the defense of language and culture, but also for literature and also for audiovisual production and creation made in castle in Catalonia. And in this way, listening also to what the creators and creators tell us, we come to consensus, we avoid crickets and we open the dialog, which is a little something that we want to express to you today, initially, with this inquiry. I understand that you are also compelled to feel different opinions, to listen to associations... I know that they are addressing them; to us too. I think we have to do this, that it's necessary. And in this way we will build a vast majority of defense of culture. As the sector said the other day, in the Monumental Theatre of Mataró, it is necessary and necessary not to delay further the arrival of this two_per_cent. It cannot be that they are still clinging to that agreement of 2019, that it must be in four exercises presuppostaris. There was no presupposition exercise on 21. The lack of a presupposition for the 21st did much harm to culture. And now we're late. It seems to me that on some occasion I had said to him: "You can't take it in a relaxed way. It is essential that we invest in cultural policies from his department, that we do so from a broad perspective, that we incorporate the sectors and creators and creators who are telling us that they can do so also in Spanish language, because it is also the culture and language of Catalonia. And in this way, everyone will feel that their department, their government, is working for the culture of everyone, not just on the one hand, that it's a little thing that we want to claim, and I know that, for what he said and for what he expressed at other times, he takes it into account. We don't want to generate chrism, on the contrary; but this look is essential that you do it. And now that it is equipped, its department, with parties with important growths, not the necessary ones – let us not say the sector – there must also be very clear, transparent and shared lines, from which will be the support that the creators, the creators, both in the audiovisual sector and in the film sector, in Catalan cinema, and in the literature. Because, if you don't, it's going to generate even more discomfort than we're already feeling. And I, to remind you of what gave the head of the opposition here a few weeks ago..., also the government has to complete the Law 20/2010, of the cinema, of Catalonia. It can't be that we always ask some of them to complete the protection of the languages, of the Catalan language, and that the Government of Catalonia doesn't do it. And remember him once. In these last few years, the investment of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation in the production of Catalan cinema has moved from a set_per_cent to a assumption of 0.3; it is to say, that Catalan is also being unprotected in the production of Catalan cinema. I trust that we will continue to speak, finding points of agreement, but above all, reflecting on what we want to express today in an open way, but also on the contrary, not only for ourselves – that we do not want to do it much less partyist – but for all this sector and the world of creation, which I so much need. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.197.0	There's the word "Culture Counselor."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.198.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I'm hoping for a moment, because I wasn't sure, I repeat it, huh? In this sense, there are two types of language that coexist in our home: one is absolutely protected economically and institutionally because it has a backward state and is absolutely protected, and some others have problems with mobility. And what we want is to work together to have this society where all languages are on equal terms. And, in this case, while we do not do this promotion of Catalan language, the Arabic language and the Catalan sign language, in case they are in equal condition, and we all see it. We are starting the work of the National Linguistic Pact, and we are beginning to see and work the data of all departments of the Generality in relation to how the Catalan language is in all its areas, because they are the ones who know, know and recognize better than any of its areas. We have just presented a first study of the Department of Education in which we are already beginning to reflect the data of the students of ESO quarter, in which..., which is their usual language of use in classrooms and in which language they are addressing the teacher to classrooms. We're not okay, and we're starting to see it. This doesn't happen to us with the Spanish language, it doesn't happen to us at any time. Before I said it, let's go to a newsstand and look at all the offer we have in a newsstand, in which languages we are; let's look at the communication media that we're getting all over the place – on television, on radios – which is the percentage in which we're listening... Let's look at the audiovisual: our children and children, why do they learn the castle so easily and which level – high – have castles of little ones? Because all the audio-visual offer they're having is in the castle. The percentage of audiovisual in catalá is small. It's the end of the day since we're going to the plataforms, which is why we're fighting, to have these shares in the Spanish audiovisual communication law. Therefore, we are not talking about the same conditions. And we need... the day we're talking about the same conditions, we'll do the same lines of encouragement and support to the castle, but I think we're going to get to the same conditions. And I repeat, the lines of the Department of Culture... you don't know who you're talking to, do you? I mean, I think we have the same interlocutors. And not above us that no one is painted because there are no lines of foment the castle, specifically – we are not coming out of the way – because it is possible to present all the lines mostly. Someday, then, we look down and land all the lines of the Department of Culture, because they don't have any kind of problem. Three hundred and three to three hundred and eighty-nine million euros this year, from 2020 to 2022. It's obvious that all of us would like to have much more. I, as the Culture Advisor, would have liked to have made it to two percent this year. Any councillor of this government would want more pressure, but it's obvious that the assumption has a limitation and it's over, and it has to come to an agreement between all departments and with the Economics Department and all government councils. So from 303 to 389 is the biggest jump the department has ever made. We get to Chapter 4 help lines, we make nine investments, we get for the first time to restock the national equipment; the national equipment, which we start by not only being able to maintain, but can have better programming. It's the same with the athenaeums. All the department's general directions increase a twenty-i-five_per_cent. We've never seen it before. Insufficient? Sure – sure – that's why we want to work on this two_per_cent; but also realistically. And it's obvious that you have to ask us to get to two percent this year. And what I have to say to him is that we'll get there at the end of the legislature, because we'll get there. But it's a presupposition that makes a very important and very good jump for the whole sector. The sector is not aware. The sector is clear that it has not looked any more and that we have surely reached EUR 100_million in the accounts of the 89; agree. But we're not that far, I mean, we're not in a catastrophe. And, therefore, we think it's a jump and it's a very important jump; that the sector will notice it a lot and that, moreover, from the year we have the commitment to go in four years. Therefore, we are in the best condition, surely, that the Department of Culture has been in many years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.199.0	Let's move to the eighth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the functioning of the university system; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Asking the Government about the functioning of the university system]] [[300-00068/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.200.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Geis, good afternoon. Commissioner for Universities and Research, I am here today to ask you about what, in my opinion, what, in the opinion of our group, is a genuine hysterism, for the health of the Catalan language that you have unleashed in the absence of other elements with which you can continue to feed the usual victimism of nationalisms. In your case, I find it particularly worrying because, when you articulate your arguments publicly, you are really of an inconsistency that cries out to heaven. In this regard, you have been saying for a few weeks that Catalan universities have to reach, according to, moreover, the directors of the ACUP – of the CUP not, of the ACUP, of the Catalan Association of Public Universities ; I suppose also according to the CUP, but, in any case, according to the directors of the public universities –, eighty_per_cent of the university teaching hours in Catalan, because they are very concerned that there are teachers who can have Catalan as a pre-established language in their teaching life and then end up teaching in Spanish. I already made public a few weeks ago, following the example of a courageous university professor like Mr Álvaro Choi, who I in my classes, despite the fact that I start in Catalan, which is the pre-established language, when a student asks me in Spanish I answer him in Spanish and, on many occasions, I must confess to him, Mrs Geis..., I accuse myself that on many occasions I also follow a part of the class in Spanish, another part in Catalan; go, what I understand as normal in our society, in Catalan society. In fact, Mrs. Geis, this normality that Catalans, the vast majority of Catalans, consider a wealth, you try to cancel it both at university and at school, as in all areas of our community. And I want to ask him and I want to do..., I want to stop him on some episodes that have recently occurred in Catalonia that seem especially worrying to me. I would like to ask you, Mrs Geis, if you consider it normal for a university professor like Mr Rafa Arenas to be literally dragged by radical students of the self-called Union of Catalan Countries, who avoided or tried to prevent the association of university students S'ha Finat! there was a normal act in which they put a tent at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, which was boycotted with violence, with brutality, by this self-called Union of Catalan Countries. A university professor, Mr. Rafa Arenas, was dragged, literally, trying to defend the students of S'ha Finet! That, I don't know, Mrs. Geis, what opinion you deserve. I wish you'd be brave and tell me what it is, that it's truly an aberration that that happens. Look, these days I've been reviewing the importance of Spanish in Catalonia and I've looked, for example, at English searches, what relatively important educational websites in the world say about learning Spanish in the world. In one of them I found the next headline. He says – and forgive my English –: « Immers yourself in Calatonian culture when you study Spanish in Barcelona. You can say: « Immerse yourself in Catalan culture by studying Spanish in Barcelona. That's the asset, that's what the Castilian assumes for Catalonia. That's what Spanish means in many respects, because it's not only what it means internationally, but what it means..., what it has as the mother tongue of most Catalans. And that is why it is absolutely aberrant that nationalism – you – seeks to exclude the Spanishman, to exclude the Spanishman from Catalan universities or to reduce it, I insist, to what he said this morning: to the status of foreign language. In this sense, I wanted to recover a few words from my admired Pio Baroja, who came to Barcelona in 1909 invited by the Radical Party of Lerroux, by Alejandro Lerroux, a man, let's say, that here, therefore, it is difficult to lie, but that I think it is worth bringing it up in this sense. And Pio Baroja spoke about the tendency of the nationalist politicians of that time, which he said..., he defined them thus, he defined them as « pedantic geniuses that need to close the door of their region and of their city, that they need a small closed staircase where to ascend soon and that there is no fear of intruders. That's exactly what you want to do at Catalan university. [[Greetings.]] The saying: « pedantic geniuses. Certainly, I am deeply concerned about the contempt you are subjecting to university professors, their own autonomy, their own freedom. And I would like to remind you of the words spoken by a university professor of those who deserve all the recognition of Catalan society, all the recognition of free university students, of Catalan society which lives in freedom and wants to move away from nationalist impulses and velities. Teachers such as, for example, Maribel Fernández Alonso, Ricardo García Manrique, Rafa Arenas himself and so many other professors of the entity Universitaris per la Convivencia, who are doing impeccable work, absolutely unpayable for the freedom of chair, for the freedom of expression and for the neutrality of public institutions. Because, look, Mrs Geis, the different directors of Catalan universities are perverting the notion of neutrality in public universities, which I understand should be a minimum that any public university – a fundamental requirement in democracy – should preserve. In this regard, one of the letters that have written precisely to the ACUP the mentioned professors of Universitaris per la Convivència ended with a phrase by Manuel Sacristán, a man whom you will know, a Marxist person, of the left, with a truly admirable intellectual pose, which was the driving force of an act of dignity on the part of university rectors during the ominous period of Francoism. In the year 66 the Caputxinada took place, an enclosure of university professors who revealed themselves against the claudication of Catalan university rectors to the Franco hierarchy. And what Manuel Sacristán said in that text, in that manifesto of the Caputxinada, was as follows. He concluded: "The only requirement of a democratic university is that no university centre should be dominated by a political, religious or ideological group. And that's just it. [[applause]] ... that's just what Sacristán said, which reminds me of my admired Ricardo García Manrique and what, in short, we, from the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, asked of the Councilwoman of Universities. Recently, the rector of the University of Salamanca said that Catalan universities that exclude Castilian will remain isolated from the world, and that is absolute evidence, Mrs. Geis – absolute evidence. Castilian is not only the majority language of Catalans, but a fundamental asset to which our universities cannot renounce under any circumstances. That is why I hope that you will reconsider your positions with regard to the claim that eighty per cent of the subjects taught in Catalonia are in Catalan and that they do not or do not violate or, let us say, attack the freedom of chair. In this regard, an infective campaign promoted by entities such as the Platform for Language has appeared in Catalan universities these days, which says: « Has the class stopped ironing in català? You're complaining. If they don't let you make the presentation in català, you complain. If you don't let the exam in Catalan, complain. If the teacher changes language, complain't. That is to say, nationalism, as always, touches upon the subject, and touches upon the subject before a non-existent peril, invents perils to try to close files around his project, to try to generate this small, this mirage of objects to the Catalan society, in short, this..., small scale on which to prosper soon, on which to ascend soon. That is what nationalism offers to Catalan society. And we, from Citizens, defend an open Catalan society, a Catalan society at least bilingual and aspire to be a multilingual society that respects the linguistic diversity of the citizens of Catalonia. I would like, Mrs Geis, for you to really respond, for example, to what I ask you about Mr Rafa Arenas' image, dragged by supposedly anti-system radicals, but clearly aligned with the thesis of the separatist government. How do you feel about dragging a university professor to defend freedom, neutrality and ultimately fundamental principles of a democracy? How do you feel about that? And I would like you to tell me, Mrs Geis, in what makes less Catalan a university in Catalan and Spanish, a university also in Spanish. Why does that university seem to you to be less Catalan? Catalan culture is not just nationalist culture; quite the contrary, Mrs Geis. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.201.0	Next, the words of Constellera Gemma Geis, Constellera de Recherca e Universitats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.202.0	Well, good afternoon, Speaker of Parliament. Counsel, Members, Members... Deputy Nacho Martín Blanco, the truth is that she was very intrigued to be able to listen to her inquiry into the Catalan university system, but because she had hope, she had the illusion that neither language nor neutrality of the universities. Because it turns out that you have only asked a question in your parliamentary office, also respect the Catalan language, and now you have just asked us another question about the Catalan language and the university system, which you call this neutrality. I had the hope that you, therefore, sometimes made a positive proposal, that you spoke of transference, of financing, of many other positive aspects, but you sometimes did not like them that the record they had been born with the will to attack the Catalan language and each of their interventions here in Parliament gives credence to what you were born for. But with the same..., with the most tranquility and serenity I'll try to answer what you're up to, which I'll tell you not to agree, huh? ; on many other issues perhaps yes, but on this one no. With regard to the Catalan language, I would like to remind you what the overallity of the Catalan university system is: there are currently approximately 290,000 students at Catalan universities, 25,000 teachers and more than 8,000 people who are part of the PAS, i.e. administrative staff and servants. There are a total of about 320,000 people who are part of the university community. And I'm also saying that to bring this data into line with you. In relation to the català..., I will try to explain it many times, but you will manipulate it many times as you intend to explain it. The university system of Catalonia and the law of universities of Catalonia..., which, precisely, at its presentation of motius quotes the Caputxinada in another context very different from what you quote. The law of universities in Catalonia establishes, in its article 6, that Catalonia's own language is Catalan. And this government does what it does is to be compromised with university with an open and critical look at the world – and that's true, because it is so – but also with the català forming part, therefore, of Catalonia's own language. And, therefore, I said the law of universities in Catalonia. What we are doing – and you have put different examples, which also always manipulates them and they only seek confrontation; there is no –..., is that the students of Catalan universities have the right – and the government has to veto this right – that the assignment that is offered in a certain language is guaranteed. This is where you claim this espionage and this persecution... so it's not like that. I already know that you will say it many times, deform it and manipulate it, but it's not like that. Simply, the Government of the Government of Catalonia and what these students claim is that the student who is enrolled in an assignment and who in the assignment file consists of a certain language, is able to complete the operation of that assignment in the language that has previously been informed during the enrolment period. Ras and short. That's what we're doing, huh? You too, sometimes..., and we will work in this line, I say now, and to the assumptions there are specific policies for the protection of Catalan language at universities: promotion, recognition in the academic field, recognition in the field of research, recognition in the field of transfer, as well as to you and today you have not done anything, policies of promotion also of the English to the students, which we have committed ourselves to and there is a very large presuppositionary increase. Therefore, when you define the debate and refer to this distorted vision, it is not true. Catalan universities, which excel at the international level, are open universities, to which there is a teacher who does his teaching in Catalan, a teacher who does his teaching in English, a teacher who does his teaching in that which he says is the most important. But the Catalan language is the vehicle language of Catalan universities. And so, in this sense, how the government would be loving there. And another thing that... and, therefore, yes, we would guarantee linguistic rights and make political actions in this sense. You're also referring to neutrality. His intervention was basically two arguments: his concern for this deformation that you say of persecution of the castle to the universities, which is false. And to believe that the university professor can, let's face it, manipulate from a consultancy, I think it's to ignore the university system. But there are some linguistic rights that need to be credited. But the Catalan universities... I told the committee the other day, we won't share this point of view: neutrality is censorship. And the neutrality where it is recognized is in the realm of the Internet, which precisely you agree with the digital decree, which violates this neutrality of the Internet. But at Catalan universities, neutrality? How do we recognize neutrality? Since when must universities not be dissension, freedom of thought, criticism, debate? It's the essence of college. The university can never be equivalent to neutrality. The one that passes, that you ask the neutrality of the Catalan universities, only the Catalans. Because I don't see you asking for neutrality at Spanish universities, the neutrality of international universities. What's wrong? They only ask for neutrality in Catalan universities. Why? Because they don't like what they think, because they don't like the position. And a counselor... that's what I told you: you can't think that from one of our counselors we can here give instructions to the university cloisters, that they act freely and act freely. And that's how it has to be a university where university autonomy is guaranteed, which is that I act free. He also wanted to ask: has the law of universities in Catalonia been read? Article 3. Article 3 of the Law of Universities of Catalonia, which is the subject of this Parliament, states: "The objectives of the university system of Catalonia are: the promotion of critical thinking and the culture of freedom, solidarity, equality and pluralism and the transmission of the civic and social values of a democratic society. And, miri, when up to the ancient building of the University of Barcelona, there is an inscription of the 11th of May 2004 that says: "The University of Barcelona, compromised with freedom, united its history to the national future of Catalonia, driving the values of citizenship, persecuted, like its members, for intolerance and dictatorships, and autonomously under the vigor of the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, proclaims the honor and glory of all those who fought for freedom, democracy and poverty. These are the positions and this is the workings of Catalan universities. And I'm already telling you that you must be able to manipulate it, but the right to neutrality of Catalan universities does not exist. Because, of course, what do you think when there are thirty-three Nobel prizes in the world that are placed next to Professor Mas-Colell. Do you have the right to exist, the neutrality, of this faculty, when there are more than four hundred university world arrest teachers who stand in a manifesto in favor of the October 1 syndics and ask for their acquittal? Also, what do you want to ask? the neutrality of all the world's academics who are politically in favour of rights and freedoms? It is inconceivable that a university is neutral when it believes it has to defend its rights and freedoms, because this is absolutely related to what democratic values are. And, finally, there is a resolution – to see if I will find it here..., a moment... – of the rapporteur for the United Nations, of the May... Here. Says: "From the Special Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to freedom of opinion and expression of United Nations, David Kaye, of 28 July 2020: "Academic freedom is not only enough to protect individual human rights on the part of traditional state actors, it also means protecting institutions, their autonomy and self-government. Higher education institutions have extraordinary functions in human society in the long term, such as knowledge production engines, discoveries, innovation, skills development, preservation of culture and national progress. They configure the democratic discourse and international cooperation, as well as the search for self-realization and moral truth. ........................................................................................................................................................................... So, I'm already telling you that, in relation to your two questions, I think that the Government of the Government of Catalonia will always age for this freedom of expression to universities, its positioning in the rights of speech and public freedom when I believe it is appropriate. To think that from a consultancy it is possible to protect or to say that the universities or the cloisters are in a position to know absolutely the university, and, in any case, the catalá is the language of the universities and we will do all those policies to guarantee the compliment of the linguistic rights to which the students of the Catalan universities have right. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.203.0	It has the word now, to make the reply, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.204.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Geis, I'm wrong to say this to you – I tell you from respect –: you certainly share with Mr Torra many other things, but the same confusion, not to say mental cocoa, with regard to what freedom of expression means. Freedom of expression is an individual fundamental right. That's why it's a fundamental right. It is a right of individuals, not collectives, much less institutions or public corporations. Therefore, when we talk about freedom of expression, if I as Nacho Martín Blanco express an opinion, or you as Gemma Geis express an opinion, everything is perfectly legitimate. What is no longer so legitimate and what is directly perverse is that a corporation, as in this case a governing body of a university, expresses an opinion and, therefore, violates the right to freedom of expression and the ideological neutrality of the entire university community. [[Greetings.]] Because the citizens of Catalonia, and in this case the teachers and students who do not share that opinion for nothing – moreover, that opinion is deeply unacceptable to them – have to accept, have to assume, have to directly compromise with the corporation, in this case the governing body, the rectorate of its university, to issue an opinion clearly contrary to its principles. There's the difference. That is why let me insist on the mental cocoa that you have with the concept of freedom of expression and ideological neutrality. Of course, a rectorate of a public university cannot stand against judicial decisions, cannot stand in favour of a concrete ideological cause, cannot use partisan symbolism in his university acts, because that goes against the most essential principles of democracy, freedom of expression and ideological neutrality. Simply, Mrs Geis, that is the basis of a healthy democracy. And that is precisely what Manuel Sacristán said in his report or in his manifesto of the Caputxinada. Otherwise, you insist that Catalonia's own language is Catalan, and that necessarily makes the Spanish language inappropriate. Hey, but we're going to the facts, we're going to the things. The vast majority of Catalans, or most Catalans, have Spanish as their own language, Spanish is also an official language in Catalonia, as it is in the whole of Spain, and, therefore, it is normal that there is no such claim to institutionally despise the Spanish that you have as one of your main currencies. And so the normal thing is that, in the Catalan, Catalan and Spanish universities, you live together with absolute normality, which is what is completely inconceivable to you. What happens in the Catalan university is faithful to what happens in the Catalan public administration as a whole. You say that you do not have the capacity to pressure the rectors of public universities, etc. That is why you, as a counselor, would have to have the obligation, if you really had a minimum concept of what institutional neutrality is, to be able to say, at least to express your opinion, and to understand, at least, that public corporations, in this case the public university, cannot do this kind of public position, because what they are doing is to violate, overstep ideological freedom, the freedom of expression of members of the university community. It's just that it's not that complicated either, Mrs. Geis. Indeed, the fact that in Catalonia public universities had a system – as they have had so far, in fact – in which Catalan and Spanish live together with absolute normality, until you have decided to rebaptize..., and, by ascribeting to them one thing that you attribute to others, curiously, that is to create problems where there are none. Where there are no problems it is certainly in the university with regard to language, and instead you have invented now that as you do not speak, in your opinion, eighty_per_cent of the subjects is not done in Spanish, because you decide to get your hands on it and try to influence it, try to demand that in the Catalan public universities the Spanish should be cleaned up and, therefore, stay in a practically foreign language condition. I'll tell you again what I was saying this morning. You say that Citizens were born to go against the Catalan language. No, Mrs. Geis, don't be confused. Citizens were born precisely to reflect the reality of the street in Catalonia in the public institutions of Catalonia, bilingualism is reflected, respect for Catalan and Spanish is reflected, bilingual conversations are not considered, as some of you say, a sign of submission. A campaign of the Generalitat that presented, perhaps, let's say, a little unhappy, Mrs. Erra in her day, which said little less than speaking Spanish, or changing to the Spanish when you are Catalan speaking is a show of submission, of slavery, as one of the pops said, one of the references, perhaps a little histrionic, of nationalism, Mr.Espot, recently. Well, speaking Spanish..., look, I, Mrs. Geis, when someone speaks to me in Catalan and I'm speaking in Spanish, I have no problem changing to Catalan. That is the linguistic coexistence of Catalonia, and that is exactly what you want to annihilate with your public policies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.205.0	Then, the word has the counselor, Ms Gemma Geis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.206.0	I already told him we're not gonna get along, huh? I've already told him that we won't get along and we won't... it's all right. Why do you know what's going on? That freedom is to vote, and its chasm leads them to political irrelevance, and we are seeing the vote after the vote. And, therefore, we will not agree [[applause]] ... we won't agree and nothing happens. The cloisters, the cloisters... you will never be able to ask for a university cloister; that a university cloister is not a position. The thing that happens to you that bothers you is that the university cloisters are in the opposite direction that you like. Because you only ask for the institutional neutrality of Catalan universities, because precisely Catalan universities think differently because there is a majority in this country in favour of independence, a much greater majority in favour of the right to self-determination and, therefore, from here on, you will not be able to find in the reality of Catalan universities the reality that you would like politically. Therefore, neutrality for you is censorship, and it is asking the universities that it is not in a position to respect the rights and freedoms, to respect the commitment to democracy, to respect what it is. And this, I'm saying, this I think will not be possible in the university model that you don't only share this counselor, but you share most of this country. Therefore, in this sense, Mr. Martin Blanco, you will not find us there nor will you find the action of the council in the line that you ask. And you're not gonna make me nervous, are you? – You won't make me nervous either. Therefore, in this sense, we are very peaceful, very calm about the work done, and with the endorsement of a majority parliament in this country that defends independence, with a majority that defends rights and freedoms, and that defends democracy. And here I'm sure the entire university community will be on the side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on Feminism and Equality Policies]] [[300-00069/13]] Let us move on to the new item on the agenda, the question to the Government on policies of feminism and equality, presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.208.0	Thank you, President. Deputys, counselor... well, I'm sure some of you will wonder what he's doing, won't you? , the VOX Parliamentary Group presenting an inquiry on equality policies. Well, the answer is simple: because we are in Parliament to do politics at the service of Catalan society, unlike some of you, who are only for interest, to draw political revenue, and also to promote anti-democratic pacts. In this chamber, laws of exclusionary feminist ideology, gender ideology, the promotion of abortion, positive discrimination and the progressive secularization of society have been being drafted for decades. And you have put all this and more at the centre of any public policy. And it is that the feminism that you represent does not defend women; quite the contrary: it has reduced being a woman to a feeling, to a self-perception that has nothing to do with sex or biology, much less with reality. And how are you going to defend, in this regard, what interests women, and how are you going to defend women if you don't even know how to describe and explain what it is like to be a woman? The objective of its policies is not the equality and welfare of society, but to continue to create, precisely, a placement agency for staff without any office or benefit, beyond gender activism and the activism of the rainbow flag. And within their ideological madness, they have created a macrostructure, in this sense, called the Council of Equality and Feminisms. For what? To promote and promote all their evil so-called equality policies. And it is that we find that Catalonia is the only region in Spain that has an exclusively equal council, being, according to the draft budgets, the council that grows the most, with a 99,1_per_cent, as a result of a political waste to which 92_million_de_euros are allocated. And it is that in Catalonia, unfortunately, it is intended to impose by law a feminist supremacy in various areas, which directly attacks equality, against freedom, and which is discriminatory. [[Greetings.]] And I can't extend much, so let's focus on three aspects. First, the liberating laws adopted by this Parliament, such as Law 11/1989, establishing the Catalan Institute for Women. More than ten million euros dedicated to this institute. Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersexual, and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. Law 17/2015 on effective equality of women and men. Act No. 17/2020 of 22 December 2008 amending Act No. 5/2008 on the right of women to eradicate sexist violence. Let's see, in Catalonia there is no discrimination against women and neither is there a patriarchal system that is constantly oppressing women. [[Greetings.]] Just like there's no discrimination... [[The applause continues.]] Just as there is no discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, as some of these laws contain. And under no circumstances is there a social, political, educational or labour need to implement all these laws. The second aspect: Parliament's duel protocol. Parliament's duel protocol expresses its commitment to make visible the forms of violence against women and its consequences. Therefore, at present, in an institution such as the one we find, which represents or should represent the entire Catalan society, other circumstances of domestic violence are systematically ignored and silenced, however serious and painful they may be. In this way, first and second victims are created, stigmatizing, that is, always the barons. Is this equality? We believe that minutes of silence should always be kept from Parliament for all victims of domestic violence. [[applause]] regardless of the sex of his assailant and his victim. This is equality. Third aspect: sexual indoctrination in Catalan schools. And here I want to recognize them that at this point I feel a great anguish as the mother of three children I have little ones. And I know that there are many parents who will also think like me, when they want to impose gender indoctrination in Catalan schools as an infallible recipe for sexual abuse. And I'm going to give you a brief example of your equality policies at the early childhood education stage at Coeduca't. In Coeduca't's plan you can find a section that talks about pleasures of sexuality and sexual desires, and talks about how to approach masturbation in early childhood, as an exercise of self-knowledge and exploration, joy and pleasure in contact with the body itself. We're talking about children in the early childhood education stage. And I don't go on, because it's something that goes beyond fiction. And this has a name and it's not Coeduca't, and much less education. And our question in this regard is why the Generalitat is assigned functions that in this case belong to the parents. Because no public power can get into the home of Catalans to tell them how to deal with their children's emotional and sexual education. And it is that you are very defenders of freedom, yes, but when this freedom is at the service of your ideology. And it could go on, although there are so many aberrations that are driven or intended to promote from the council of Equality and Feminisms that we would never end. And none of these policies co-ordinate the coexistence nor create equality or economic, political and social development of men and women. Therefore, from our parliamentary group, in the face of its quota system, our incentives for the work and family reconciliation of both the father and mother and to be able to guarantee equal opportunities; in the face of their implementation of entrepreneurial feminist certification, because our assessment and support to those companies that are familiarly responsible, and in the face of their anti-natalist policy and of false empowerment of women, our demand for their femininity, our defense and protection of motherhood and the recognition of the family as the main cell of a healthy and prosperous society, and in the face of their proposal of sexual education of child perversion, our proposal of parental PIN. [[Greetings.]] And remember that parents are the immediate guardians of their children's education and that it is a basic issue of freedom that supports common sense and natural law. And since I have a little bit left of my speech, I'm going to use it to read a Coeduca't document, which, if you enter the website – and I invite you to read it in depth – you can find, can't you? There is a document, for example, that has developed an association, which is an abortionist association, an association that came here to a appearance a couple of weeks ago, which is called the Association for Sexual and Reproductive Rights. And this association participates in drawing up the documents of the Coeduca't programmes. And we find ourselves, when talking about key words and concepts of the document, with: gender bias, gender binarism, sexual binarism, sexual and reproductive rights, gender stereotypes, gender expression, heteropatriarchy, sexual identity, gender social construction, LGTBI, pleasure – in children of childhood –, sexual preferences – in children of childhood, yes, ladies deputies – and machist violence. Someone come to me and explain that this is not indoctrination in Catalan schools. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.209.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.210.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... They do very well to present this inquiry, because they have many doubts, and they are hard, and as a minimum they will be able to hear some of the answers. And before you start, let me tell you that you come here again and again to say that you want to talk about the real problems of Catalans, but it's hard to believe when it turns out that your party has been financed by the great Spanish fortunes. [[Rialles.]] So, I don't know about five Catalans... together, huh? , five sectors of society represent. In any case, to some very concrete. They have been assigned to individuals of other countries charged by fraud, among other crimes, as published. And his program is a mere copy of what religious groups in the United States used to preach in the sixties. They're so disconnected from the real problems of the Catalans, the people, that they've engaged a Croat against windmills. And I'll give you some examples, because I understand that they're not evil gigants that you're seeing, these windmills, where there are public policies of equality that aim to guarantee the freedom of all people. First example: policies to combat masculinist violence. Two_of_each_three women have not suffered at the length of their life, already to the pair, family, work, the spaces of the oci, the educational centers... Only in public transport, six_of_each_two women have suffered sexually, and new_of_each_two in the case of the youngest women. Masclist rapes affect all women; also their voters, Mrs. Lora, and their friends and their Germans and their daughters. On whose behalf do they speak when they think this is not a top-notch political and social problem? The Department of Equality and Feminisms works so that women can have a life free of male violence, and that's why we have doubled the resources dedicated to the proper approach of these violences, both for what you do to the attention service, as for what you do to repair, as well as, and importantly, to prevention, because it is a country strategy, because it is a much more powerful strategy, and it will be developed in different departments, such as Education, especially to combat sexual rape. In the first half of this year, the twenty-i-u_per_cent of the complaints of sexual crimes against women corresponded to children from zero to twelve years, and the twenty-i-u_per_per_cent to girls between thirteen and seven years. Most of these attacks and abuses are not eaten by strangers or passed through the streets, passed through their own homes or habitual spaces of interaction with minors, and passed..., that is, they are eaten by acquaintances, relatives, veins, monitors, teachers or chaplains. His parliamentary group sees imaginary gigants of two rabbles when we talk about emotional education in the phase from zero to three, but the seas and parents of this country want their creatures to know how to identify inappropriate behaviors, that they are aware that their body is their own and that they cannot touch other people, that they can react immediately before any attempt is made. That's not moral, that's to guarantee the child's protection, and that's what we're supposed to do as public powers. In the case of adolescence, the main source of information about sexual relations today are friendships and the internet. Is this your reception, Congresswoman? , the porn that they find in the networks or that they share with friends? Or maybe they plant abstinence as a solution, as do the speech groups that financed them? This government takes seriously the healthy development of boys and girls, and that's why it gives knowledge, to eliminate taboos, to eliminate stigmas about the menstrual cycle, about masturbation; because their relationships are based on respect and knowledge..., on consent. As an example: equal treatment policies and non-discrimination. Entering an ociplace with the tear you want, you have the surname you have, you have the color of skin you have, whatever your sexual orientation is. And who says to enter an oci site says to get a job or to lodge a piss without discriminating over these reasons; or simply to be able to access a public space or a trade without architectural barriers and with necessary adaptations if you have any disability; or that our views and notices are not seen discriminated against in banking services because they receive documentation with a QR code that they may not know how to read. Without oblivion, obviously, of the duty of public administrations, whatever it is, to act without producing any type of discrimination. Who do you represent if you don't think these are real problems for the people of this country? We work because people know their rights, because people who have suffered discrimination get a reparation and a guarantee of non-repetition, because they eradicate hate speech or aggression towards groups and social collectivities that are sentient simply because they are who they are. And we will reinforce these equal treatment and non-discrimination policies – certainly a mandate from this Parliament, with an internationally agreed law – with a new law, in this case, against racism, and with another new law that guarantees the rights of trans people in all spheres. And we will continue to work, of course, for the gathering of people who are migrants and refugees, because they know the rights and rights that all people who live in Catalonia have, come from where they come, as well as to remove the harms that weigh on our veins, classmates or migrant workers. Third example: equity policies. The Department of Equality and Feminism is also here to ensure that the poor have no face as a woman, no skin color, no origin, no sexual orientation or age. We worry because all people can live worthy lives, while you make proposals for those who have the most, I suppose those rich who financed the creation of their party. And, in this sense, they are key projects such as those we have worked with the Occupational Service of Catalonia for the better of the occupation of women in a situation of male violence or of women majors of forty-five years, or for the better of the occupation of trans people; as are also those actions for the menstrual equity that we are pushing together with the departments of Education, Climate Action and Health, to deal with the difficulties of many women accessing menstrual products, which are products of primary need, with an unjust and unsustainable type of VAT; and the expansion of policies of cure to infants, with proximate uses of language, which are products of primary need, with an unjust and unsustainable type of VAT; and the expansion of policies of care to children, with the ability to reach them, together with the ability to communicate, to communicate with others. And I'm sure, despite the explanations provided, they're still obsessed with the imaginary giants and they don't see the men in these policies. But it's that equality policies are asking everyone and they're for everyone. Is it that there are no great gay men with disabilities, different origins or different skin colors that suffer discrimination? Do they believe that men who wish to fully exercise their parenthood do not benefit from conciliation policies? They think they don't weigh those stereotypes about masculinity that prevent them from often expressing their emotions and discomfort, which explains why they're paying much higher suicide taxes? They don't think they're interested in unraveling these roles that make them expose them to unnecessary risks to prove that they're what society has said to expect from them, as is the case with a more fearsome course, which ends up causing eighty percent of traffic accidents with fatal victims? You also see giants imagining when we talk about policies to involve men in the eradication of male violence, and we are basically talking about the need for men to take a step forward, to provide them with tools so that they are allies of this shared struggle, because they are especially those who delegitimize and reject any expression of violence that they see in their daily lives, with their fellow workers, with their fellow workers, their friends, or because they identify all those sudden patterns that perpetuate masculinism and rape, and that can be liberated. Ras and short: feminism is for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen of VOX... [[Greetings.]] Lords and lords of VOX, without equality, did not release him. You often proclaim equality, repeating, like a rattled disc, an article of the Spanish Constitution. But they must know that equality is not effective by magic, reciting this article many times or very strongly. Equality is not proclaimed, it is guaranteed. You consider that some people are more alike than others and claim a selective freedom that they want to impose again that silence, ancient and very long, that we will not allow. Know that we do not take their proposals as a simple quixote of windmills. They will not pass, because the Department of Equality and Feminism and the government's conjunction we work precisely, and tirelessly, to guarantee to all the people of this country the freedom to be, without any type of discrimination or violence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.211.0	Then, in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.212.0	Thank you. Well, Counselor, I speak to you as a woman and not as an activist, which is the only thing you know how to do. We represent four thousand, four million Spaniards. Don't talk to me about representativeness. And, Counselor, look, with all due respect, I believe that your speech is worthy of making an amendment in its entirety. Their intervention has not brought anything new, they always use the same speech, which has little or nothing to do with reality. He's told us about women who are victims of violence. Well, denying gender-based violence does not mean that there are no abused women, does not mean that there are no women who suffer violence. But what we say – and what is the reality that is evident –... is that there is domestic violence, and that they deserve the same protection, in this sense, a man, as a child, as an elderly person who is a victim of domestic violence, as a woman. And you only talk about women, women and women. He's come with data, I can come with data, too. And if we look, for example..., talk about minors, girls. I'm talking about minors, children, men and elderly victims. They are data of victims of domestic violence in the year 2020 in Catalonia. We've had 364 men and 596 women. Both these 364 men and 596 women deserve the same respect and protection. [[Greetings.]] And that's what VOX stands for. Later, he also told us about freedom. But you only want freedom for your model of woman, the one who promotes feminism, which is contrary to the essence of woman, and also her feminism, which only admits those women who pass through the totalitarian roller. And I would like and I would love for you, counsel, to come down to the mud and look into the eyes of those women who, doing long working days to earn bread for their home, come home and are the pillar of their family. And I'd like you to look these women in the face and tell them what you're doing with your tax money, which you're doing is creating and setting up feminist bars. I'd really like you to look these women in the eye and tell them this. And neither a lesson of equality nor feminism to women who raise this country every day, whether by caring for their family, in their homes or going out to the labour market – nor a lesson. [[Greetings.]] Then, on the subject of sex education, I am deeply concerned about the insensitive way in which they have to deal with such sensitive and complex issues, such as sexual abuse, which is something we are also concerned about. You, with the excuse of protecting children from sexual abuse, because you try to put us with shoes all the indoctrination of gender ideology, besides introducing, in this sense, sexual contents that have nothing to do with reality and have nothing to do with preventing sexual abuse. [[Some applause.]] And, in this sense, we are going to continue reading things of the Coeduca't: "In a childish stage, recognizing that being curious about one's own body is customary and normalizing it, including the exploration of genitals, exploring the different sexes and bodies. And in this we, then, cannot agree. But, well, you're going to continue with your ideological agenda of so-called equality policies. And to sum up, do you know what the consequences of your policy as a counselor are? That we have become the autonomous community with more violations of Spain. And, please, less feminist chiringuitos and more investment in security so that our daughters can go quiet on the streets. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.213.0	To answer, the word Tània Verge has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.214.0	I will be brief, because, against a problem of reading understanding, there is little that can be done. [[Greetings.]] So, you're able to read some data and state all the opposite of what the data says. So, here the problem is his, there's no way he can explain why he understands it. It is also difficult to feel how they intend to give equal lessons, their party, which is the party with the least Members of this Parliament, the parliamentary group with the least Members, a twenty-seen_per_cent. I don't know what the message is that you are giving to the women who voted for them: that they are more incompetent than the men of their party? Because the law sets a match so that there is a balanced representation. If this Parliament has a forty-per-cent turnout right now and a fifty-per-cent turnout, thus achieving a balance very close to the two genera, and, in change, you have only managed to find a twenty-per-cent turnout, is that why discrimination has ended in this country? It's just that his party is so equal, but so much so that women have preferred, I don't know, to do other things, but not to be doing politics with you. A party so equal that it is the only party that has refused to sign the declaration of zero tolerance compromises before the settlement that can be produced in this chamber; they are so equal that they are allowed the luxury of demarcating from an institutional compromise that has not only been made in this chamber, but also in the European Parliament and that, as political parties representing a part of the citizenry, they have the obligation to be exemplary. As for what you say about violations, they also have a problem of understanding. And let me explain it to you. Of course it's worrying that there's a high number of complaints. Because the facts we always read are denunciations, they are not violations; in fact, the name of violations is always superior, because we know that there is underreporting. That I am increasing the xifra that was hidden is positive, because it means that the women feel more accompanied. And they feel more accompanied, because there has been a lot of movement on the street that he told them he believed them; because there have been some laws drafted in Parliament that have given guarantees; because there are some institutions that are accompanying them, and because it has been a long time since the March of Catalonia that male violence does not return to violence in the realm of the pair and exparella. Therefore, we are already attentive, we are already accompanying with specialized servants, whether in the clinical or in the specialized network, to the women who have suffered a situation of sexual rape. There's also a specific unit inside the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad So, that these cases come out is essential to end impunity and to end these myths, with these shames that have been associated with aggression, that is to say, the way a woman was dressed, where she was, at what time. So, here it is one – well, here..., as in so many others, eh? - Red line. I don't want to do politics with masculinist rapes. I, on top of that, contradict each other again. If they put emphasis on the volume of sexual assaults there, how can they not demand more resources to prevent them? How you don't have to demand that you do this job [[applause]] ...,this work of prevention in all spheres, obviously starting with the schools? But, as I said, no pretense – no pretense – to convince them. Simply repeat that what we do from the advice and from the government's conjunction is to ensure that all people can live free lives, without discrimination, rape or hate speech that you promote, day yes, day also. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.215.0	Let us turn to the desire of the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the Catalan language to justice; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. [[Question to the Government on the Catalan language of justice]] [[300-00072/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.216.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs and MPs, good late; honourable counselor, very good late. Certainly, the data certifies a davalada of the social use of català. These days we are talking, therefore, about the data that we have known about linguistic immersion at school, from català to audiovisual; figures that do not please us, that we were told by the Councillor of Culture, of 300,000 people who live in Catalonia who do not understand català; problems in the classrooms at universities... But we believe that we have to recognize these data; it is the first we can do. And so, it seems to me that there are some assumptions in which there are 47_million dedicated to promotion policies, promoting the use of Catalan language. Therefore, let us defend these assumptions, too, for these policies. It is important to recognize that they are cross-cutting actions to the whole government – education, culture, presidency – and, with the data at the front, we believe that we need to create better actions. And for this, today, also in the field of justice, counsel, therefore the inquiry. It's a bit of an alarm, but we think that absolutely people have to be alarmists on this issue. Just to those who do not defend the social use of català and the promotion we would do a great favor are alarmists and are not aware of these data to the Administration of Justice, in its various fields that conform to justice – the lawyer, the judiciary, the prosecutor's office – and also to the same department. The data from the CAT Report, from the indispensable Language Platform, to which we recognize and greatly appreciate the good work and awareness of the citizenry and the impulse and defence that we have emerged in these past fifteen years..., say in its CAT Report that only 7.4 of the sentiments that are being sent to Catalonia are in Catalan – this is the lowest figure of the last fifteen years – and also say that in Catalonia, 2015 there were twice as many commercial documents in Catalonia as in 2019. It's data, therefore, that we don't... we also recognize that when they do firm and constant actions, they improve these data. But it is true that the Administration of Justice continues to be one of the areas in which the use of catalá is of the most precarious. The reasons for these difficulties of linguistic normalization in the field of justice and in the judicial sphere, do you think that they are purely linguistic difficulties or are they of ideological and political recasts? Why does it cost so much... why is the realm of justice so impermeable, especially the high heads of justice? And they say the high heads just to be empathetic with those judicial offices in which you work and workers are absolutely sensitive to the linguistic question, they strive and believe, therefore, quite simply, that justice is an area that must be clean to the city, also in linguistic and Catalan language questions. The politicization of justice and the consequent judicialization has long been embedded in the linguistic question in Catalonia. The General Council of the Judiciary, the Supreme and the Constitutional Court are a barter's advocate of the unit of the country – his country, as Councillor Jaume turned this morning – which is not only not moving forward, but is reversing the multilingual character of the State. Vicenta Tasa, Professor of Constitutional Law at the University of Valencia, to the magazine Llengua i Dret said that the regulations are growing of the linguistic uses on the part of the state legislation reinforces the role of the Spanish language and limits and interferes with and empty aspects of the autonomous regulations in language matters. These powers of the State and these constitutional organs must think – in fact, they think – that the rebuff to independence passes through the rebuff to promotion, recognition and use of Catalan language. They're armored from within with mid-size legislation, and they come to make a few warnings for the city of Catalonia and its institutions, in which they seem to tell you we won't let one pass. But let's go to concrete questions, Counselor. I'm sure you, apart from the ones I'm proposing, will be able to expand it with many more. The brochure Platform for Language, What obstacles prevent the use of català to justice? , unravels some of these concrete questions. The first, the lack of linguistic training, of competence in catalá by officials and judicial offices. Despite the good task of the language service of the department throughout the territory, which can be trained, can be advised, corrected or translated, the structure of functional bodies is loaded with mobility and provisionality. And that, taking into account, moreover, that the català is neither required nor deserved in these places, simply a simple score in some of these places, and therefore, judges, magistrates, prosecutors, lawyers, by law, the obligation they have to know the castle, not the català. This is the famous article 2.3.1 of the Organic Law of the General Council of the Judiciary. Add to this one more obstacle in this language skills the fact that there is little tradition, a little flair, little tradition of opponents in these places. Surely you can explain to me, therefore, better actions, some programs, in this sense, to reverse this situation. Another obstacle is the language of judicial proceedings. We have already said that this article obliges, imposes the castle as the default reference language to the entire state. Maria Josep Feliu, a teacher in Language and Right magazine, said that this obligation dilutes the possibility of exercising the language rights provided for in the same Statute. In practice, the department has done a good job and has a tool, which is the language option tool, which allows you to sort the language in this procedure, the language with which this procedure is carried out. And that, of course, was a little advent. Insufficient. But it would also be good if you did not always turn on the attitude of the city, the voluntarism of the city, the militancy, but that it was a more professional tool, that is also defended from the functioning, that they make it their own and that they do not disconnect it, right? Another question is to guarantee the rights of the city when it goes to the Administration of Justice before the justice of the Spanish State, because we are certainly talking about a violation of rights. If a city expresses itself in the castle, there is no restriction and enjoyment of all the rights and possibilities throughout the territory; in change, with the catalá is clearly restricted. It passes in a view room that already for many people it can be a hostile situation, uncomfortable if not, because the right of defense of the accused is retaliated because it does not like..., it is an uncomfortable situation in which it does not like to contradict, do something different or numb, because, therefore, from his point of view, it was not in case that it did any sensitivities. That is to say, we cannot be fully jutjats in Catalonia. They explained to me that there is a curious situation: in a passage of a room of vision each one speaks his language, català or castella, lawyers, the people that have to be judged, until it could still pass with judgments, but in an automatic, imposed and almost diglossic way, inside a room of vision the language that is always imposed is the castella. « It is not a matter of awareness of the citizens... Deia Platform for Language: « It is not a matter of awareness of the Catalan citizens speaking of their linguistic rights, but it is a matter of achieving that these rebin prou protection by the public authorities. Counselor, this is not a lost battle, because the struggle for independence will win it, it will be a final victory; among other reasons, because we want it to be an instrument to live better, to have all our rights recognized, also our linguistic rights that are violated. Thank you very much, Counselor. You will be able to extend me other obstacles and solutions. A lot of mercy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.217.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of the counselor of Justicia, Mrs Lourdes Ciuro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.218.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon to everyone. So I thank you very much for your inquiry, Mr Ten, because the català certainly does not have good health, and still less for the administration of justice. On the contrary, the català is in a situation, in the Administration of Justice, more than precarious, we could say. Because you've moved on, haven't you? , a given: only 7,4_percent of the total sentences resulting from the courts and tribunals do so in Catalan; a two and a few, if we speak of the demarcation of Tarragona. With which it must be a priority of this council. It's from the government, with determined action in favor of language. But it is especially of this councillor, a determined action in favour of Catalonia to justice. Because it's not fair that there's a perception that man can't lead to justice in catalá. This violates – you said well – the right to effective judicial protection, and we have to solve it. Catalan cannot be considered a second language in the Administration of Justice and, therefore, there cannot be second Catalans when they are directed to justice. It is therefore necessary to increase the use of the presence of català in the judicial sphere with the objective that it is also a vehicle language with identical conditions that the Spanish language does. The city has the right to use Catalonia's own language in all judicial phases and that this does not imply a limitation in the exercise of its rights. We always say that we want a justice of our own, that we want a justice of zero kilometre. What's that supposed to mean? That it can be, therefore, also in equal conditions in català, that both the city as the lawyer or the other legal operators when they come to justice can be convinced and without fear that they can lead in català. It's our obligation as the Department of Justice, it's my obligation as the councilwoman, first of all, and it's the right of every citizen to demand justice in Catalan. Because if we don't do it, no one will. As he said, for the causes of the world there is the world; for the causes of Catalonia we are the Catalans. Among the objectives of this legislature, therefore, and which we have set ourselves in the plan of government at the level of all government action, it is necessary to point out, as I have said, the use of català rau, in all spheres. And for what it does to our department, what it does to us today, Justice, so we have to worry about defending and strongly promoting the català in a very special way to the Administration of Justice. And we're in this, aren't we? Here we have to make two distinctions, two actions, two lines of action. One that would be more internal, from the area of the own department, that passes to follow, to watch how the use of the català is developing in the proper Department of Justice, by means of a plan of preservation and promotion of the use of the català that goes to make a continuous diagnosis, that is already being done, of how the català is working in the Administration, but from the department of self, to define and implement the actions that it serves to improve its promotion. I, for another band, define, plan actions by mid-term. We're talking about how the catalan is treated in the department, from jutjats to arrests or from victim care to sworn translators. A complete analysis and a complete diagnosis. And, at the same time, we need to involve all the agents and entities that we operate and that operate in the Administration of Justice to build great consensus and establish an action plan with an extensive external projection in different aspects. As I said, within the appropriate department, with annual training in legal language, with formatting material, consultation material, courses through the CEJFE to function and officers of the Administration of Justice... The course, we will maintain an expansion of the provision of the Language and Right course, of four hours of duration, from the CEJFE training program, as I said. And, second of all, very important, to protect the catal from an external window, in the company of other agents, because only from the department will we not advance. It is necessary to involve all operators: universities, schools of legal practice; judicial schools. And we need to spread all the tools that we have in our department so that they can be used. For this reason, from the Department of Justice we would like to thank ourselves for giving us all the tools we already have, such as the possibility of translating all kinds of documents into Catalan, the linguistic advice, text correction, models and forms. We also have the LexCat portal, we offer in Catalan all the arrangements that come from the Spanish State translated into Catalan. We have implemented, as you rightly pointed out, the language option to e-Justice. cat, so that it is the citizenry, through its lawyers and prosecutors, that can sort the language of the whole process. That's what you need to know. We don't have to broadcast. Because you need to keep a lot of tools if these aren't known and are not used. And we have, moreover, a series of well-established institutions, such as lawyers' colleges, which, of course, you know, I explained to them in the appearance that we would make an economic effort in all those requests for the return of offices that are made in Catalan, going from fourteen to twenty euros per demand. Or you agree with other institutions, with representatives of legal collections, such as prosecutors, such as social lawyers, such as notaries, such as registrars, that they already schedule, and we help them with this, to an extensive training activity. And, finally, we participate in the agreement between the Government of the Generality and, as you have said, the indispensable platform for language, which helps us to age so that the català is a vigorous language in all areas of our society. A question that is also curious: that we must get old so that the language itself is vigorous in all areas; it should be an inalienable right of the condition of Catalans. But we have to work, we have to thank each other. And, in addition, we are working on the following agreements and agreements: lawyers' councils, with a library catalogue that will bring together more than three hundred linguistic resources of legal learning in a web site, or we also want to make an agreement with the Judicial School, which you know is here in Barcelona, to draw up a protocol for the formation of judgments also in Catalan that you are studying at the Judicial School. But above all we have to make a cry, we have to make a call to collective involvement in the defense of the català to justice. It's up to all of us and each of us, the department and all of the operators. I've lost my mind to acting in català. It is important that lawyers and prosecutors are encouraged to serve all the tools we have at the abst in order to defend the client in Catalan, because we want full effective judicial protection in Catalonia. In fact, let's start the campaign«Justice the català so that there is a compromise in these lawyers and prosecutors to act before justice and do it in català. They'll hardly come out of sentences and write justices in catalá if they don't get in. We have to make a pressure, if I may be able to express it, because we can act in català to justice, and a need for its knowledge on the part of operators from between jutjat. Plus, I explained the scholarship program to them. We want to get students because they encourage themselves to oppose the courts and the prosecution. Because you know that as a community we have a shortage of these professionals, that we would not only be used to gain the status of judges, because we would not go, in principle, to judges who are from Catalonia to other destinations, but that, more than anything else, we would deepen the knowledge of our language and the sense on the part of the administrator that it will be understood in that room because there is a majority of judges who are also competent in Catalonia. And finally, in the framework of the national pact for the language that we have been pushing since the government, we will seek the maximum involvement and consent in all operators, also of justice, because the català is also, as you know, the vehicle language in equal conditions. The use of català to justice is a linguistic right of the citizens of Catalonia, so we want to transmit it, and in addition to being recognized and used for the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, which, by virtue of its Articles 9 and 10, compromises the signatory states, that is to say, among them the Spanish State, to guarantee the use of these languages in justice and in the Administration of Justice. And we will not tire of claiming that this Spanish State does its dues and, therefore, from the General Council of the Judiciary it is required that the català be a requirement to act in Catalonia and not a merit, in that way as you very well explained. We would therefore require the Spanish State to comply with the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages. Therefore, this will be one of these battles that we will present from the department where we are, where we can speak with the State, and above all we will also have a tool that we hope to activate from the year that sees, from the 22nd, the month of generation, which is the catal pact for justice, which more than we have an argument with all the operators of justice to define how we want justice in Catalonia during the next years, which strategic planning we want to judge, which historical demand we have of resources and where we want to place also the state of prisons and prisons and educational centers of minors, with a planning, such as the deity, stratifica, which must be based on the principle that the catalist must be informed that the catalist has not yet been protected from being used as a catalyst. Obviously, I do not say unanimity, because there are struggles that are due to loss, but I am sure that most of the parliamentary groups in this Parliament are committed to making català a full language in the administration of justice. Many thanks for the inquiry. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-17-1701.219.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. So we've arrived at the far end of the order of the day. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
