ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.1.0	Good morning. If you occupy your seats, we'll start the session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] According to the Ministry 111/XII of the Parliament of Catalonia, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of the year 2021 there are a total of 1,655 victims dead and missing in the Mediterranean. [[Ask the Government about the Catalan language to the schools]] [[310-00166/13]] Let's move on, then, to the first point of the order of the day, the questions with oral answer to the Government. He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the Catalan language to the schools. The question is posed by Mr Carles Riera, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.2.0	Good morning, Counselor. The Catalan language to our schools today has three problems: the general regression in the presence and social use of the Catalan language, the attacks coming from the right and the extreme right with complicity and support of various institutions of the State, and the continuing lacks and neglects at the time of applying immersion on the part of the Generality's succeeding governments, both of Convergence and Unity and of Juntes per el Si as of Esquerra, which have followed the successive sensations that imposed castella quotas on various schools. We must note that the policy of his department and of his government is, at these times, insufficient to reverse this situation and to confront those who want the catalá back, even more, as the language of teaching. The autonomy of centres and the diversity of linguistic projects is also contributing to the retreat in the social and school use of Catalonia. Counselor, what does your Government intend to do to guarantee the right of the entire student to be educated in Catalan language – without exclusions –, the use of Catalan as the vehicle language of teaching and linguistic immersion?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.3.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.4.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Riera, from the Government, from the Department of Education, we will continue to fight ahead of these court attacks with all the tools, with all the tools we have, with the maximum firmness and with the maximum conviction. What we also have to say is that this armor, this protection of the Catalan language, our culture, will not be a cent_per_cent effective until we have a state close to us. And that's why we're here... many of us here want to move forward with this state of our own and this Catalan republic. You said it, it's a country issue. What we've done is recognize a situation that we don't like. Before the fall of the use of català in the last fifteen years, what we have done is look at it face to face; look at it face to face and turn to action. And that's why we're displaying with firmness, conviction and realism, with a long look, with a country look for this generation of children and young people and for future generations..., and what we're doing is deploying an impulse of Catalan language to the educational centers with which all the educational centers in the country re-establish their support and tools, through driving groups; all professionals, 120,000 professionals, re-establish their support and tools so that the linguistic projects that have written the different educational centers in the country apply to all classrooms. And, therefore, we will continue to move forward, as it cannot be in any other way, because the Catalan school model is not touchy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.5.0	To answer that question, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.6.0	Counsel, the Government of the Generality has full powers to determine the educational and linguistic model of Catalan schools, and should use them to guarantee the right of all students, without exclusions, to be educated in Catalan language. It is important to ensure immersion in all the educational centres in the country, including the nearly eighty-eight who have rejected judicial opinions against this model, which has a vast majority of Parliamentarians and is the object of a great social consensus. We cannot admit any new setback in our sovereignty – which we are going to compromise, counselor, to defend in the investment agreement – in front of attacks on fundamental rights, and which counts with great social majorities. And the català at school is, to be sure, one of these rights. It's not like we can't do anything about it. We need to assume leadership and responsibility. We cannot allow students' rights, families and teachers who want a school in Catalan to be violated, without exclusions. It is necessary to protect school communities – students, families and teachers – from attacks on the right and the extreme right and the fracture they want to cause. Counselor, will guarantee the immersion, including the choices that have been the object of sentences imposing castella quotas? Will it bring to the schools the necessary resources, institutional support and legal guarantees to apply it successfully? Will you assume all the responsibilities that this Parliament is asking you to do to make it possible? If he does all this, he'll have us at his side, building solutions to finally win this country's back. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.7.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.8.0	We are at the side of the educational community: at the side of our teachers, at the side of the directions, at the side of the families, at the side of the student and at the side of the assemblies. All the protection, all the support to the educational centers. We trust our masters. They are the ones who know best what they have to do, what they have to do in every educational project so as to respond to this education and why the learning of the català and the castle is a reality, which is, today. Therefore, maximum tranquillity; fill them with the soroll. Leaders of the Department of Education? And as long as it is. I am convinced that you will be at our side, and we are at your side. Shared leadership. You said tomorrow, you'll be at the top with Som Escola, and disband, we'll take the streets. Now and always, school in català. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.9.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the role of Catalonia in the international struggle for democratic deepening. [[Ask the Government about the role of Catalonia in the international struggle for democratic deepening]] [[310-00167/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Rius, Member of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.10.0	Thank you very much, President. He will advise, recently you have made an institutional trip to the United States and Mexico. And, among other activities, we have seen you participate in various acts of homenation to Pau Casals in both countries in commemoration of the fiftieth anniversary of the famous "I'm to Catalan of the United Nations and of the sixty years of his concert to the White House, invited for President Kennedy. Acts like these to which you have witnessed a constant in the history of Catalans: there has always been a civic Catalanism, attached to the speeches of the pau, and also a retaliatory Catalanism; but, above all, it has highlighted the persistence of our national demand. In fact, when Pau Casals went to the United States, there was already – as now – a reprisald Catalanism, inside and outside Catalonia, and, in front of it, a state that based its action on the strength and abuse of power. That's why today Pau Couples would make the same speech, you know that. It was a speech from a universal català, not a Spanish. You know that, too. Catalan practice with his word, with his actions and with his cello. The Catalan expert always turns up; he doesn't go with the DNI, but with our will to be, which they intend to deny today, another time, repeatedly. I am convinced that this will to be and to do is the same as we currently exercise Catalans when we travel the world to study, to negotiate, to tourism, to cooperate, or, as in their case, to strengthen relations and to weave alliances between the countries of the world. We know that in the United States and Mexico, too, there have been meetings with American think tanks of reference in the field of open government and cooperation with local and Catalan companies, and the Government Delegation in Mexico has also been inaugurated to strengthen the ties of this country, which is certainly also a home of the Catalan republican exile, of those who had to abandon our land because their political ideas were being pursued. For all this, Counselor, we would like to ask you for the work done during this time, as well as for the results that you may have achieved in this peril, which we believe has continued to link Catalonia in the global struggle for democratic deepening. And precisely in the framework of this global responsibility that Catalonia assumes, and as we find ourselves in the final negotiation of the assumptions, we would also like to ask you if there is any novelty in relation to the assumption of cooperation to the si of your department, which manages the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.11.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.12.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... the work trip we've made from my department to the United States, first to Washington and then to New York, ending up in Mexico, had three main objectives. First, put in value and reaffirm the commitment of this government and this department with cooperation, because Catalonia is seen as an actor participating in global reptes. Here, to give 'old examples, we have made a significant contribution to Washington, to the Pan American Health Organization, or, in the case of New York, to the United Nations, to the Central Emergency Response Fund, on Catalunya at global level is a significant donor. The compromise with cooperation is demonstrated with facts. And that's why today I wanted to announce an increase of an additional 2_million, through the reallocation of resources to the local department, to the assumption of cooperation, of the Catalan agency, which would remain in 36,89_million. This supposes an increment of practically thirty per cent respect to what is foreseen under the assumption that this chamber is processing. According to the objective of the journey: to work in democratic quality. If all of you are told what they think when they think about Estonia, many of you will agree that they think about electronic administration. Well, we want people to think of democratic quality when they come from the world, think of Catalonia. And, in this sense, they wanted to confirm the participation of Catalonia, of the Government of Catalonia, in an act that will take place in the mark of the Summit for Democracy that the Biden Administration is organizing around the world. We will take part in an act of Barcelona, an official act, which will constitute as a summit of democratic reaffirmation that shows the key role that Catalonia has in this area. Third objective of the journey: the third objective of the journey is an objective that is transversal and permanent in all the journeys we make from the department, which is to defend the interests of Catalonia. And in this sense, both in Mexico and in the United States we have met with people from the executive and the legislature. And I wanted to highlight a meeting that we had before us in the Foreign Committee of the Congress of Mexico, in which we explained to them what was the plan of this department, and of Catalonia, in external action and we denounced that the least of some Spanish leaders in Catalonia is similar to the least of some Spanish leaders in Mexico, when they did not want to denounce the colonial exploitation that there was in that country. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.13.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the state of epidemiology and vaccination. [[Ask the Government about the epidemiological and vaccination status]] [[310-00168/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Fàbrega, Member of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.14.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor. This diumenge, Dr. Antoni Trilla, in a press article, wrote: "The omichron variant worries, but it is the delta variant that occupies us. We are back in an epidemiological situation worrying; fortunately, moderate force in terms of mortality and heavy cases due to the high percentage of vaccination in Catalonia, but with a very high incidence of infection, especially in children's population, which again involves a very high level of care pressure, especially primary care and public health teams. And with a few amounts of hospitality and ICUs that are also growing worryingly; in fact, the secretary of Public Health, Dr. Cabezas, herself, announced that we are entering a phase of mitigation. Just the highest incidences we find in a child population – therefore, an unvaccinated population – and in the age group with a lower percentage of vaccination – between thirty and forty-nine years – and the patients who enter the most are those between sixty and sixty-nine years who do not have the third dose of record or all those who are not directly vaccinated. Vaccination works. We get out of this tape of science, because we've got some safe and effective cows in a good time. More than 12 million cattle doses have been laid in Catalonia. Actually, 1_million is already this third dose the record dose. In fact, we have the ninety-three percent of people living with this record dose, and the seventy-two percent of people over seventy years old with the record dose. But we only have a twenty-i-five percent of people between sixty-sixty-nine years with this record dose, and a twenty-i-sis_per_cent, if I wasn't wrong, of those who were initially vaccinated with Janssen. Today, vaccination in infants is initiated, a controversial measure, but it does seem that the potential risks are overcome for the benefits. The vaccine that is in use, this paediatric dose of Pfizer, validated for EMA and FDA, has proven to be very safe in countries that have been vaccinating infants for a long time. And as much as I cove with infants is much more leu, this isn't always innocent. Any new variation, in addition, can be much more aggressive in children, and if we have them vaccinated, we will have them partially protected. I – nor is it a minor issue – vaccinating infants will minimize their confinements, which are affecting their emotional salvation. However, we understand that the priority must be to administer the record dose between sixty-sixty-nine years. In all this context, counselor, we would like to know what the Government and the Department of Health value is of the current epidemiological situation with the nine measures taken in the mitigation phase and with the omichron variant at the time, and also what measures are being taken to increase the vaccination rate according to record doses and infant vaccination. Many thanks for your work, and to all the health personnel throughout the pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.15.0	To answer, has the word the councillor of Salut, the Lord Josep Maria Argimon... [[The president laughs.]] Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.16.0	So let's start again, president. Thank you. Good morning, MP, MP, MP. You explained, I think, quite well. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. All right, that's better. And, therefore, the situation, at these times, how do we have it? Let's start, if you want, for vaccination. He said it very clearly, priority is sixty or more years. In these moments we have a thirty-five_per_cent– not a twenty-i-five, a thirty-five – but it's still a low-weight xifra, because this is the xifra, say, at a lower risk. So, sixty or more years is the priority. We start today, this late, with the vaccination of infants, children from six to eleven years old, that at these times we have 62,000, say, quotes that they are already gauntlets. But, I repeat, I insist, the high priority is sixty or more years. Janssen..., is also this priority, but we also explained that Janssen has a difficulty, that many of these people will be found who were given the vaccine, among other things because they are people we have to look very proactively for. Some of them, quite, will no longer be in our territories. I, from this perspective, here we will certainly never be able to achieve this cent per cent second or booster dose, in this case, for Janssen. Who are the measures we are taking from the point of view of strengthening vaccination? Reinforce, first, these vaccination points. In these moments we will pass from Fira..., this end of this week we will spend, we will do the jump..., that is the place where we can, say, vaccinate more; we will do the jump of five thousand daily doses to two thousand. This will allow us to move from about 320,000 weekly doses to 350,000. Also what is the mitigation phase in the appropriate primary care centers. It means that we will focus and focus more on what is coming at these moments, that it is those people who come with covid symptomatology. And, therefore, also, from this point of view, focus more on what will refer to vaccination. Omicron variant. Three quick things. Yes, it's a more transmissible variant, it's by itself, it's because it escapes to cows; but this escape to cows was, above all, done in the labs. We need to see then, in the real world, what's going on. And the third element, which is what everyone cares most about and about which there is no answer, is whether it's a more or less aggressive variant. The CDC's last report yesterday, which the Treu Diari – with data, therefore, from the previous day – indicates that no, but they are very few cases. They themselves already say that there are very few cases. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.17.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on digital projects and measures to promote the future of Internet language. [[Ask the Government about projects and digital measures to promote the future of Internet language]] [[310-00169/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Elsa Artadi, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.18.0	Thank you, President, for everything. Good morning, Vice President. « Pretending to teach nuclear physics in Catalan or Basque is of idiots; Adolfo Suárez, 1976. Forty-five years later, Minister Manuel Castells refused to reply to an interview in Catalan which said that it was a government policy. And, intermig, many examples of attacks against our language: from a number of judgments that claim to be imposed over consensus, pedagogical criteria and the will of the legislator and decide who should be the model of Catalan school, to the Law of the State of the most progressive government of history, which orders the Valencian Generalitat not to communicate in catalá with the Catalonian Generalitat or the Government of the Balearic Islands. Limitations, denials, prohibitions..., with the same objective: to pre-empt Catalonia's own language on the part of a state that has never believed itself to be plurinational, that has never seen diversity as rich and that will now also decide to fail to fulfil the European Charter of Minority Languages. They want us as a nation without a state. They fly us like a languageless people, because in Spain, governments that govern, is equal law and imposes itself in the same way. We've seen it sad with the Celaá law, which won't shield the català. We'll see about an audio-visual law that'll marginalize him. Therefore, before the linguistic emergence that we live, before the attacks that we suffer against our language, we cannot trust everything that happens from Madrid. It won't do any good. Above all, it is up to us to act, and, above all, to be very demanding from our institutions, from here. If we really want the català to be a language of the future, in the band of following the path to independence we have military in our language, we have to defend the català rau, from school to trade, from communication media and culture to justice, in all areas of everyday life. Also in technology, Vice President. That's why today we're asking, from Juntes to Catalunya, what policy the Government of the Generality will follow to defend Catalonia's own language, and who are the projects and measures that will be driven from its department. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.19.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. Miri, as I was listening to him, came to me at the head of that phrase which was pronounced in the year 2000, to me, the Borbó escaped, which "never was the Spanish language of imposition. But well, don't go so far, huh? Recently, a few days ago, we heard of a news that Spain renounces the patent of European unity because it is not in the castle. As you will understand, with a state like this, if the català does not defend us, no one will defend him. [[Some applause.]] And that's why we need a country response, a unitary response, a non-plat B response where the government will lead, where we won't look at another song. But we must do it all together: with society, with this Parliament, but also with the Congress of Deputies. Because, if not, if there has been no uniting of language strategy in the Congress of Deputies as well, we will find that there are laws like Celaá law, that do not shield the català. And, therefore, we have joint actions in all spheres to be able to cope with this linguistic emergence that we are living in. And from my department we will also contribute in a very important environment such as the technological one. Well... we're already wearing a year working on a project so that the machines also understand the català. It's an environment of relationship every time more important. I have collaborators who still drive me messages in the castle because the car's voice interpreter doesn't understand the català. And, therefore, we have a capacity and a will that is not like this. And we can make that change, and this will be one of the projects that we're about to present, as you know, the Aina project. But I let'macabar with an appeal to the Socialist Party, to the PSC. Look, I know you're not like the backseat. They are not like VOX and Ciutadans, in language. They haven't been. What's going on is that it would be good if we knew where they were right now. I ask them to remain brave and that, just as they have done with the judiciary, with the pardons, they also do... they face the judiciary in linguistics. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.21.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the manufacture of electric vehicles. [[Ask the Government about the manufacture of electric vehicles]] [[310-00159/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi Albert, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.22.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Workers and Workers of Parliament, Counsellor Torrent, good day. The region of Baix Llobregat is combative, watered by the river Llobregat, which connects with the Mediterranean Sea, forming a delta that prides us for its fauna, flora... The river is life; yes, also to the region of Baix Llobregat. A region with an agricultural park that is referring to the global level and an authentic agricultural gem on the side of our country's capital and metropolitan area enmig. A region with the mountains of the Ordal or Collserola and the costs associated with the Garraf. The Baix Llobregat is a very diverse and attractive region, but it always stands out for our strength and industrial capacity, which has allowed us to write pages of struggle and conquest of labor and social rights. And the SEAT forms a direct part of this imaginary collection, symbol also of the workers' struggle. The Volkswagen Group's announcement to manufacture the compact model of electric vehicles at the SEAT plant in Martorell is a transcendental decision. The manufacture of the electric vehicle has a tractor effect, with the ability to generate an industry around it that will allow Catalonia to lead the transition towards sustainable mobility. It may be recalled that you, counselor, in your first public act in the charge visited SEAT and met with the president of the company, Wayne Griffiths, and qualified SEAT as strategic partners for this government. Since the first moment, it has been the priority of its department to ensure that the SEAT plant in Martorell is converted into one of the referents that allow Catalonia to lead the transformation process in the automotive sector and has worked hard to achieve it. And now that's so good work done. For this reason, we claim that the Spanish Government accelerates the call of the strategic project for economic recovery and transformation, the LOSS, which is an essential element to guarantee this reversal definitively. The forecast is that until 2025 SEAT will invest 5,000_million euros for the launch of our electric vehicles that will be designed and designed in Catalonia. This announcement is excellent news. In a complex week, it reinforces our position at global level, because it is a pole of attraction for the car and the whole set of entrepreneurs that develop, in addition to enhancing the relationship to the territory, one of the great objectives that is also planted in the framework of the National Pact for Industry. Counselor, what is the value of the Volkswagen Group announcement and how do you think it brings added value to the automotive sector and the industry in Lower Llobregat and Catalonia? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.23.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.24.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Indeed, last week the Volkswagen Group announced that it would manufacture the compact electric car model at the SEAT plant in Martorell. And, actually, as you said, that's excellent news. In fact, it has been a priority since the minute or for the government and for this department; a priority, because consolidating this investment we are convinced that it positions us in a lead situation for which it makes the transition towards sustainable mobility. Because, in fact, of the entire production value chain of the electric car, the car's own construction is not the most important element, it is the key factor. First, because, obviously, it's what generates major reversal, it's the hard core of this production process. Second place, because it allows us to guarantee the present and future of the SEAT plant to Martorell and the thousands of jobs that fall from it. And, thirdly, because, as you said, it is the most watering element, the most tractor in the industry. For all this, the most important element is the construction of the electric car, and that is why it was a priority. Now what's really going on is that the Spanish government is laying down the batteries, doing the duets and breaking down the car loss. And we will continue to work in that most of the elements of the value chain of the electric car..., which previously commented that the most important, the key piece, is the manufacture of the electric car, but it is not the only one: we want the maximum number of fish to be located in Catalonia. And in this sense, we'll keep working on it. And that's why it's very good news that today's event, for example, is that the research and investigation center around the electric car boats is located in Martorell, is located in Catalonia. A phonetic element too, great news also on this line. But we want more good news, not just for what he does to SEAT, not just for what he does to the construction of the Volkswagen Group electric car, but also to Nissan. We want to keep working. We are hopeful that we will achieve a good solution, a good resolution, despite all the difficulties, that there are many and that are very obvious; a solution that allows to preserve the maximum number of places of work to the plants of Nissan in Catalonia, to the three plants of Nissan in Catalonia, that, as you know, there are different projects that can fit in that they are interesting for the country and that we are convinced that they will end well. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.25.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the proximity trade in the Nadal campaign. [[Ask the government about the proximity trade in Nadal's campaign]] [[310-00160/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jordina Freixanet, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.26.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Torrent. Good morning, deputies, deputies. As you know, we are in Nadal's time, and there is no doubt that this campaign, Nadal's campaign, is one of the most important for the commercial sector. It is a golden opportunity to face the social and economic recovery of our cities. Trade has been one of the most affected sectors in the last few months facing the pandemic, but it has also been fighting against large surfaces and electronic placards that continue to win land. We know the effort that the councillor has made in full confinement, the greatest of all the state, but we also know that the only real recovery is to achieve the full dynamism of the commercial sector. This is why, from the Republican Left, from the ends of the territory, we believe that the impulse of local trade is very necessary not only because of the importance of maintaining a commercial fabric, but also because of the barriers' stores, the proximity trade, small communities of life and mutual care, they take care of and worry about our lives, put light and life in all the streets, get involved with entities and associations, and give life to every bar and city. From this paradigm shift we are living, trade must play an essential role, because trade is a fundamental pillar of economic and social activity in the municipalities. It is the time, therefore, to bet and encourage a proper and sustainable business model, a business model that covers the needs of consumers and adapts to new consumer habits through the use of information technologies and that guarantees the survival of an extensive supply of small independent and efficient trade of our cities. On these days we have turned on lights, we have prepared the feasts in every one of our cities, and we have also seen how it was given at the beginning of the campaign."I came to your trade, I came to buy. They've also allowed us to walk these days and talk to different traders. From the barrels – like the Cappont de Lleida barrel, from the upper zone – they tell us to expect this to be one of the best commercial campaigns in the country, meaning doubt the better of the two last years. It seems that everything we've lived has also made us value everyone and everyone who has everything to touch from our home. But we need to go a step further, counselor: we need to bet on digitalisation, to facilitate access to proximity trade, to ensure the balance of business formats and, above all, to encourage efficient and competitive businesses to preserve urban trade. And, in this sense, I would like to ask you, counselor, what actions are being taken from your advice to boost the proximity trade and, at the same time, the production system of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.27.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer, you have the word [[some applause]] Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.28.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. You said: "As long as we push the trade in barrels, the trade in proximity. Indeed, as we preserve the Catalan model of trade, as we preserve the thousands of trades that are inserted in the urban plot of our country, and that are not only important because they represent a hundred_ thousand establishments, with the consequent places of work and lives of autonomes that depend on them, but they make community. They are essential to socially cohesive our barrels, to territorially vertebrate our cities. Community fan. And that's what we got back to with the confinement. When our streets, forced, to face the pandemic, had to be silenced, they had to be emptied, we saw more than ever as necessary this commercial plot to preserve the cohesion of our cities and our peoples. We already knew that, but we learned again with the confinement. So this is what we want to preserve. And, in this sense, we have pushed direct aid to the sector to try to get it over the moment. A conjunctural, palliative help – if I may – but it was essential to be able to overcome the hardest moment of the pandemic. In this sense, the Government of the Generality has contributed €182 per person in aid to both the most affected sectors and the most affected citizenry for the pandemic situation in order to overcome this situation. But now we want to reactivate consumption, we want to help in the reactivation of demand, and we have driven this campaign that you thought, "I came to your trade, I came to buy, precisely to boost life to the centers of our cities – to Lleida and to any other city in our country. But there isn't enough, actually. "We must go further, you said. And, in this sense, the will of the Government of the Generality and the Department of Enterprise and Work is to work with a triple vector: proximity, which means values, means trust, means emotional connection to trade, digitization, essential and which is not contradictory to the previous vector, and, finally, innovation. In this triple feeling we work, from the Department of Business and Work. We're doing it. And we are convinced that this must be the platform to preserve the Catalan model of trade. Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.29.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the state of the trans-people law's work. [[Ask the government about the state of the law of trans people's work]] [[310-00161/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Jenn Díaz, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.30.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. A few months ago we started this legislature self-requiring that at the end of this year we would start walking towards this trans law. A trans law that, in fact, is a democratic mandate of the law for equal treatment and non-discrimination that the last legislature approved, and that we also committed that at the end of a year we would approve, we would start to walk towards the forward draft of the trans law. In fact, this legislature also began with the creation of this council of Equality and Feminisms with this will to turn us into an area of defense and guarantee of human rights, of fundamental rights. And, therefore, both this law and this advice and the work that was done yesterday began with the approval of the memory of the trans law stand out in this will to guarantee the human rights of trans people. But, in fact, it's not just a democratic mandate, it's not just that we approve it with a law, it's not just that we approve it with a young man at the beginning of the legislature, it's just that it's a historical debt that we have with the collection of trans people, which, moreover, the last few years have seen them as the assessment and the political and social persecution have put them in the center of many debates. And on the subject of debates I wanted to speak, because, in fact, this law, the law for the guarantee of the human rights of trans people, does not go to make any intellectual or philosophical debate about the lives of trans people, but what we come to do is, as I said, to narrow these human rights of trans people, phonemental rights: that means housing, that is to say greeting, that means education and that means decent work. We don't come here to discuss the need for the law, we know it's necessary. That's why we started walking. And, therefore, announce that, before these polarized debates, before these two ways of entering the law trans, we, firm; we, for a law without guardians, and we, inviting entities and the trans collection to work for the best possible law, a law that works for the life worthy of trans people. And, therefore, with the approval of yesterday's law memo to the government, we would like to ask you, Counselor, what are these first steps, this public consultation, and announce that we will work for the best law without any guardians. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.31.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.32.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. In 2014 this Parliament approved a pioneering law of LGTBI rights to eradicate the LGTBI-fóbia, which allowed Catalonia to have an inclusive trans_mark, which has inclusive public policies. And I want to emphasize that the extension of rights to trans people has not been to the detriment of the rights of any other person or group in this country; it has simply done it more justly. With the processing of this pre-project, from the pre-project of the full law of recognition of the right to identity and expression of genera, what we do is go one step further, one step further in different senses. On the one hand, to raise to the rank of law all those instructions, protocols, recommendations that in the past seven years have already been set aside in daily interaction with administrations, in the educational world, in the world of sports, of prison centers, and to be able also to consolidate the model of trans salvation in the public system of salvation and its gradual extension to the territory. And I want to take advantage of the recognition of Rosa Almirall Oliver, who created and is responsible for the Trànsit program and who has recently been guarded with the President Macia medal for work. What else do you want to do, this law? It also wants to move forward to ensure the right to free development of trans children and adolescents, in accordance with their identity and expression of gender; to ban the use of reverse and conversion therapies; to promote the employment of trans people, as it pointed out– we have already started working with this SOC programme, which devotes 4_million euros–, and to define – also very important – mechanisms of repair and historical memory especially towards trans women, who have been the most persecuted, the most repressed and the most socially excluded. We are now beginning to deal with the preliminary draft with public consultation and the participatory process, where the protagonists must clearly be the trans persons and entities defending their rights. And because we're talking about human rights, we call for the highest political consensus in this chamber, especially to those groups who believe that human rights are not questionable, but are guaranteed. And also, because we can get back on our feet, all the solidarity and support for the people we are showing today in Madrid and other cities in defense of the Trans and LGTBI law in the Community of Madrid. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.33.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on fiscal competitiveness in Catalonia. [[Ask the Government about the fiscal competitiveness of Catalonia]] [[310-00156/13]] The question is posed by Mr Antonio Gallego, Member of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.34.0	Yeah. Hello, good morning. Do you think Catalonia is a fiscally competitive region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.35.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.36.0	Hello? Yeah. Thank you, President. You ask me if Catalonia is a fiscally competitive country. The answer is yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.37.0	In answer, has the word Mr. Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.38.0	Well, you've clearly done an act of faith, Mr. Counselor. At this point of the year we can already say that we will continue to be the region of Spain with the highest taxes. It is a misconception, that they have decided to deepen further in the fiscal hell in which they have converted Catalonia. Mr. Giró tricked us when he said he wasn't going to raise taxes this year. Successions and transmissions are the most burdensome third parties in Spain. We are also on the podium of shame in property tax, a figure that also threatens to rise for family businesses, as we saw in their proposals sent to the committee of experts for tax reform. We also have the shameful honor of being the region with the most taxes of our own. After his unfortunate agreement with the communists, we will pass from fifteen to eighteen, we will have three more: one against ships and cruises, one against the industries that generate emissions and another that have been invented for ultra-processed foods – the known tax on bollycaos. And, Mr. Counsellor, that, in addition to extending the taxable persons of the tax to empty housing and to enter into force the CO2 confiscation imposed on vehicles. But the worst part of it is that, to make up this brazen robbery, they have sold a mini-rebajita of the IRPF with a ridiculous impact of 25_million_de_euros, fifteen times less than the one approved in Madrid thanks to the parliamentary impulse of VOX. In any case, not even including this microscopic and sloppy tax rebate Catalonia will continue to be the place where the IRPF is highest for the lowest incomes. And the most pathetic of all is that you and your new partners in Podemos keep saying that you are the great defenders of the poor, when you are slaughtering them at taxes, and we remain, as I said before, the region with the highest taxes. Mr. Turned, yours is pure cynicism. This is not fiscal competitiveness. Stop squandering the pockets of Catalans to finance their hundreds of chiringuitos and their imaginary republic and pay attention to us: eliminate all own taxes, as we have been claiming des de VOX in Madrid, and really reduce – indeed – the income tax on Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.39.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.40.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Gallego, will never cease to surprise me with the ability to bend the truth and force the seams of the truth at the time to certainly assess the realities of Catalonia. Believe me, you certainly don't read information from those who are willing to make reality a good headline. He's not good for salvation. The truth – the truth –, the only truth, the reality is that with the assumptions of 2022 we will lower taxes to yields of 35,000 euros downstream. I mean, I say again, we lower taxes to eighty percent of the country's taxpayers. This is the reality of things, that we lower taxes. We'll do it, plus, without retailing services, without retailing services. And I'm telling you one thing: if the Spanish Constitutional Court doesn't waste so much time on us, maybe we'd go faster to get a country that's fairer, more supportive and more forthcoming. [[Greetings.]] And I'll tell you one thing: you're damn right we have a differential in the tax field. You're right. We have a difference with the most favored and privileged territory of the State, and this difference we have with the yields of seven thousand euros downstream; we still have a difference of eleven percent. That's why we reversed the feeling of the Constitutional, because before the differential was 17.3_per_cent and now it's 11_per_cent. I'm done. Miri, I'm surprised you talked to me about tax competitiveness. Competitiveness is a concept that applies to companies. Do you know who they're worried about, tax competitiveness? Countries like Barbados, Bahames, Cayman Islands, Panama and possibly the Community of Madrid. In the states... [[Greetings.]] In Western and modern welfare states, competitiveness is not a concern; it is a concern of progressivity. Progressivity, not competitiveness, when we talk about taxation. Competitiveness in progressivity, social justice and solidarity. And this is the way Catalonia is going. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.41.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the use of energy conductor devices for the Squadron Mosses. [[Ask the government about the use of energy conductor devices for squadron mosss]] [[310-00158/13]] The question is posed by Mr Marc Parés of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.42.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. A few days ago we witnessed in Badalona the death of a city after an intervention of the squadron moves with an energy conductor, a Taser gun. We ask you this question from the very prudence and without wanting to express advanced conclusions, but also from a great concern, because it is not the first incident related to these police tools that we live in Catalonia. In fact, just a year ago we saw Sabadell an intervention in which they applied six downloads – if – against a person with mental health problems. One intervention, the one that the Greuges syndic called disproportionate. Counselor, what is your department doing to avoid repeating tragic situations like these? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.43.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.44.0	President, deputy; deputies, deputies... Well, allow me, first, to begin by giving support and support to people, and to their families, who yesterday suffered armed aggression from a violent person, and, particularly, also to the agent who was wounded for his service and for his bravery. And also congratulate them and thank them for the work they did, the service they did yesterday, to all the officers of the Police Region of Camp Tarragona, and, in particular, also the Special Intervention Group. I had the opportunity to do it myself, through... by phone. Member, what is being done with regard to the use of Taser – which are known to this name – is, first of all, to follow the instructions approved for this Parliament and for the Government in relation to its use, which is especially guaranteed, and, in particular, to incorporate into the mental health plan what is called the guiding teams, that is, to try to interact to improve its use in the case of situations of people with mental illness both in the protocols – and, therefore, to improve them from this perspective – as well as to accompany them at some points in the proceedings. It is worth saying, however, that the use of Taser always has a purpose, that it is not to contain the person in generic, but to contain the person when there is risk for his own life, for the life of third parties or for the life of the agents who intervene. So, this is the path. And in any case, we're still talking about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.45.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.46.0	I think we share that one of our police's objectives must be that their actions do not generate any hard injury and, much less, no death. That's why we think three things are going down. The first is to equip themselves with tools that are not highly harmful, and the Tasers, potentially, are. The second is to establish protocols to prevent these types of damage being produced, to unify them and to make them public, and the protocol that the Department of Interior has made for local police is not yet public. And the third element is to provide us with traceability, assessment and control mechanisms; in this case, it is true that traceability has worked, and what we ask for is assessment and decision making. In this sense, we ask you to reconsider the use of these guns and to modify urgently the use protocol, the Mossos protocol and the local police protocol. We believe that it is necessary to limit the name of discharges to a maximum of two, to prohibit their use against minors and to prohibit their use in demonstrations. The Director General of Police told us that, in this case, he adjusted the use to the protocol. And we don't doubt it, but it's that protocols can't go past people's rights, and the current protocol allows the use of Tasers in all these cases. I think it's obvious that I can change the protocol, like changing the behavior of agents before people who are vulnerable. We know that Tasers can be lethal in people with certain conditions or in people who are taking certain medicines or in people who have consumed narcotic substances. Counselor, at a time when problems and cases of mental health are growing, we believe that it is essential that police bodies incorporate this variable into their actions, and we ask you to do so. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.47.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.48.0	President, Member... Just – because there is a little time – I ratify what the director said respects this concrete case. I want to put in value that it was at the request of the people who were painting an attempt, in this case, the person's parents, and that it was used to safeguard, precisely, the lives of the agents and of themselves, who were the ones who asked for it. There are some protocols, they follow the protocols, and there is an assessment of every time it is used, it's already local police, which is done and in many – in many – and also of their own. Naturally, in the framework of this Parliament, we can continue to work to improve them in the sense of the themes that would refer to mental salvation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.49.0	Time's up, counselor. Thank you. [[Some applause.]] [[Ask the Government about the protection of children at school]] [[310-00157/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the protection of children at school. The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.50.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, these days we have witnessed several deplorable episodes of harassment and incitement to violence against a child of only five years of age. A child who has been asked to do an apartheid, has been urged to isolate him in class or even stone his house. A five-year-old – I repeat, five-year-old – who has been pointed out by members of the Government of the Generalitat and by Junts per Catalunya candidates. A family that has been identified in a_media and to which they have assembled a demonstration in their own people and against their rights to the cry of « Terra Lliure. Mr. Gonzàlez, for a few months your department has had a new tool within the anti-violence plan. It is USAP, which is a student support unit to avoid situations of child and adolescent abuse, violence, sexual abuse, peer harassment, macho violence, LGBTIphobia, cyberviolence and hate and discrimination behaviors. Thirty_y_four million_of_euros that cost us, this plan. And I wonder if it works. Have you launched it, Mr. Gonzàlez, after this campaign of harassment and intimidation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.51.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.52.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... MP Roldán, the Catalan education system has always been an example of coexistence, cohesion and consensus. And always, because it forms part of the DNA of the Catalan education system and it forms part of the anime of Catalans, we will be at the expense of coexistence. We've always been and always will be. We're the ones with the cohesion. You're the Division and the Threat. Always condemn any assault, always condemn any discrimination and always condemn any rape. I, lords and lords of PP, do not allow them to divide by reason of language. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.53.0	To ask, you have the word Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.54.0	Yeah. Mr. Gonzàlez, are you going to put the plan in motion yes or no? Because the question was quite clear. I don't know if it's that asking you to stone a house doesn't look like violence, or asking for an apartheid for a little, five-year-old, you don't look like hate. The problem here is that there is a conflict of interest: how will that harassment stop the person who has induced it? You, Mr. Counsellor, have made an appeal to disobedience; you, Mr. Gonzàlez, who has not condemned one of those miserable tweets; you, Mr. Gonzàlez, who has gone there, to Canet, to trap the accusers and who now intends to send linguistic commissioners to school... That there is a lot of plan here and a lot of support against hatred, but when that hatred comes from the ranks of independence, then you shut up or, worse, you justify it. And, look, justifying violence is not democrat's. It's not democrats to protect the violent. Failure to comply with the law is not democratic. Disobeying court decisions is not a democrat's thing. And, of course, pointing out those who think differently and trampling on their rights is not democratic either. I think it is very clear to you that the label of democrats is very large, Mr Cambray. And I tell you more: it turns out that this five-year-old has more dignity than his entire government together. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.55.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.56.0	Thank you, President. You don't stop, do you? Lies, lies and more lies. I repeat it – I repeat it –, I will say it many times..., we will never justify and always be against any type of discrimination, any type of violence and any type of attack on freedom. Always, always, always. It's you who justify the rape. It's you, the ones who justify the rape for the fact of voting. So, please, zero lessons in democracy. The deputy secretary general of his party, Ana Beltrán, said this weekend that the children in Catalonia would mark them with a bracelet as the Nazis marked the Jew. Wow! Are the Catalan education system compared to 6 million assassinations for Nazism? It's just that it's a lot of crap... it's that it costs even more to believe. In a democratic country and with a democratic culture this could not happen. They can tell Spain what they want, but I assure you that in this chamber and in this Parliament we will not allow them. It's not all right, for a bunch of votes. Decency. [[Some applause.]] Decency, lords and lords of the PP, and rather cynicism. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.57.0	He asked the Government to reply in the plenary on school accommodation. [[Ask the Government about school accommodation]] [[310-00165/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Grau, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.58.0	Counselor Gonzàlez-Cambray, forgive me if I'm a little thick this morning, but apart from being that of the cohesió and I don't know how many more things, what is your specific policy against school harassment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.59.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.60.0	I don't know. You need to know whether you are thick or not, deputy, but in any case, from the Department of Education, from the first day, from years ago, this government, zero tolerance to any type of discrimination and zero tolerance to any type of settlement. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.61.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.62.0	Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray, not so long ago I asked you here about the case of Kira López, the pupil of the Manyanet Father of Sant Andreu who committed suicide at only fifteen years of age. Her parents are convinced that she was being harassed at school. The first time I asked him here I wanted to be very careful: there was an investigation of the Mossos in progress and his council had opened a file to Pare Manyanet. I confine myself then to simply asking for Parliament's agreements to deal with bullying without anticipating any conclusions of any kind about Kira's death. I wish you'd done the same. Instead, we have seen how he gave the subject a folder, dismissing school harassment to Kira López, when the Mossos continue to investigate and when it turns out that the syndic of heavyweights, Rafael Ribó, has issued a demolition report that does not leave you in very good place, Mr Cambray. You see that the syndic of heaviness we have is not considered precisely an affection of the government – quite the opposite. Well, even this very understanding syndic says in his report that I have here that ‘the whole chronology of action must be reviewed in the case of Kira López to assess whether the diligence at school was the right one both to attend to the girl when she was still alive and to give explanations and satisfaction to the family when they could no longer be given anything else. The syndic asks to take very seriously the possibility of taking disciplinary action against Pare Manyanet. The Ribó report says that you have to put the batteries, counselor, you have to prevent and detect these cases, you have to promote specialized and compulsory training for teachers, you have to increase suicide prevention in educational institutions. Why, while the Mosses investigate and the syndic says all this, do you cross your arms, Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.63.0	To answer, the word "education" has the advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.64.0	Congresswoman, you... and, besides, it's not the first time you've done it, huh? ...We're in front of a tragic case. We are ahead of a case of a suicide, which is a fracture of the whole society – it is a fracture of the whole society. And here, obviously... at the side of the family. And from the Department of Education – I explained it to you later, but I'll explain it again and I'll explain it as many times as I need – what we've done is activate, through the free choice of violence, through the rape support unit, all the procedures, all the investigations and all the protocols. It's an investigation that's still underway on the part of justice and on the part of the Mosses. And, therefore, we will accompany, accompany the family and, obviously, accompany the educational community so as to give response in situations that, obviously, like society, cannot accept that it is produced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.65.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in the plenary on the situation of the penitentiary centres. [[Ask the Government about the situation of prisons]] [[310-00162/13]] The question is posed by Mr Rubén Viñuales, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.66.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, how do you rate the current situation of the Catalan prison system?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.67.0	To answer, the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.68.0	Thank you, President. Deputies... in relation to?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.69.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.70.0	What's more, he doesn't know as much about the attacks we're experiencing at the prison centers. Look, it's very worrying, the situation we're painting in Catalonia. Day by day we also have news of some working or prison officer who has suffered an attack: an increase of the five-cents_per_cent in the attacks, counsel, to our prisons. This is, clearly and Catalanly, inexhaustible. Your government has to protect them. His government is the guarantor of our offices and you will function. Her government, she advises, cannot doubt or novel in inactivity. And we ask you to explicitly state that you will not abandon them – as has been done, unfortunately, with the Squad Ways – and defend without matter or crack the function and the daily work of our employees and employees. Look, the reasons for this increase in aggressions are diverse: staff aging, with a mid-twenty-five years; abscess of inter-initiation; loss of more than five hundred effects in the last few years; loss of respect for the authority of the functioning of the internal functioning due to lack of consequences in case of infractions; dark spots in the prisons, without video surveillance cameras; the inopportunity of Circular 2/2021, which has generated confusion and insecurity in our functioning and functions... Look, ever since the government of Spain, we've done our dues on what's on us. For example, prison officers will be considered authorized for the effects of the Criminal Code; application of the principle of truthfulness; right not to complete private penalties with the rest of the inmates, etc. You signed a pre-retirement agreement with the unions after making a statement to the state's general assumptions in the Senate by sending your group, Juntes, asking for money to make it happen. They are surprised – as at least, they are surprised – to see that their party, Junts, makes statements to some assumptions, that it does not vote in favour, but, not content with this, criticizes those who do. Ours will work, counselor, they're full of good intentions and words. We need real and responsible actions. Miri, we are aware that you are the heiress of the government of the Generality for these last two years. We are aware that he only carries six months in charge and that he is doing his best to improve it, but we ask him for two things: courage and compromise. If you're brave and you also have a commitment to improve this, you'll have it at your side, as usual, in our group, but if you don't, you'll have it at your side. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.71.0	To answer, you have the word "Justice Counsel."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.72.0	Thank you, President. Viñuales deputy, from the department we have very clear what happens to the prisons and how we want to address it to solve it. The guiding principles governing the operation of this department will be to ensure security, to ensure coexistence and to guarantee the integrity of the entire prison community within the prisons for the benefit of reintegration – the ultimate goal –; this is for us to guarantee and support human rights. The issue of aggression... you have considered it, you have increased; zero tolerance. This is why we start implementing a protocol from the generation month of the year that goes to ensure the safety of employees working inside prisons. We'll check the circulation. Continued review of all circulars and protocols that will be implemented from the department as soon as we press, as long as the victim's area of attention, as long as in any of the areas, because the ongoing evaluation is a guarantee of improvement and a guarantee of review of what does not work. And in six months of the implementation of a circular, which was answered from the very first moment, we have already been able to detect that, for example, it is called upon to value enclosed cells that do not exist in our prison system. Therefore, they cannot assess what does not exist. What do you mean, that? That we must implement, in order to reach the zero content, all those technical present, future..., better, because this is the end, without abandoning at any moment the defense of the guarantee of all the people who work there, as I said before. We're already vaccinating the entire prison community, all because it's a closed community. Appreciate the effort, because you need to know that being in a cell confined to a prison is very difficult for the inside, very complicated for people who work there, for you to function, because it greatly increases the complexity of the management of a service like this. Therefore, you can imagine that vaccination to prisoners is a priority. In addition, we need to address the employment situation. Since 2009, an agreement expired. We want you to function and communities of the prison service with continuous training, with a prison thing that is not inter-initiated; we want you to function, as are the movements of the squadron. And we also want to ensure early retirement, for example, that it is the agreement we signed with these professionals. And that doesn't depend on us, and that didn't end with money; that ended with it happening in the Congress of Deputies. We presented a statement, because it's the first way to get it. We hope your group will support it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.73.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the epidemiological situation. [[Ask the Government about the epidemiological situation]] [[310-00163/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Assumpta Escarp, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.74.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. We are concerned, and very concerned, about the evolution of this on-the-spot earthquake, today with the in-house gaze not only in the vaccination, but in the last few hours we have had in the last few hours. As I have told you the last few days, it is not the measures – which we have always supported – but its management: the responsibility of its council, and of others, to make the measures effective and accessible to all citizens. Everyone's tired. We're tired of the professional, the citizenry. In general there is a deep fatigue. And, therefore, you miss them like the covid passport, like whether or not the tracking system works or live again a 061 col·lapsate or an overflowing primary do not help. You, counselor, are a good communicator, and communicating at these times is difficult. That's why they surprise and it doesn't help when you bring responsibility to the citizenry with little clear recommendations launched in an interview and without any concreteness. There's not going to be much transparency in the data, if we get confused with the message. Do you think, counselor, that this is a good measure of prevention? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.75.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.76.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, I honestly don't remember now who you're referring to, of confusion. And if I've made a message of confusion, then obviously I had no intention of doing so, because precisely one of the things we don't have to do is confuse citizenship. You've commented on a number of things. The first one, we're tired. Everyone is tired–everybody–, and the professionals are too tired, and the city is tired. And we also need to keep this very much in mind at the time of making decisions. One. Two. I suppose you're referring to the fact that you're also in our hands all that you're referring to the management of the pandemic, and that's what we need to be very present. We all know... we're almost two years old in a pandemic, and we all know more or less the things we have to do and we don't have to do. And what I do not think is, in this sense, that all the measures we need to take must be very restrictive measures, but also measures of, say, the individual prevention that we all have before us. I don't know if he meant that or not, and if you want to make this clear to me, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.77.0	To answer the question, has the word the lady assumes Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.78.0	Thank you, President. Miri, during the first days of the pandemic, we experienced erratic communication, sometimes even contradiction, within the government itself, because..., and this I think ends up giving to whom we share responsibility, solidarity and cohesion with freedom. And, therefore, let us learn, too, from those who later deny everything. The other day, counselor, in an interview with TV3..., I don't know if TV3 or 3/24, launched a recommendation, so, in general, said: "Let's avoid company dinners. It did not generally recommend reducing social interactions or announcing restrictive measures on the names of persons. He preferred to do, like, the whole thing. And it turns out that this example is full of the restoration sector, which now sees them as cancelling the company dinners, that none of their department has communicated anything to them – or the slightest explanation – and that there is also no type of compensation provided, because it is not a rule, but a strict recommendation, and therefore the citizenry, the people, can interpret it exactly as it is. It doesn't seem like the best mechanism of prevention. And that's why I was saying..., clear messages. And if in a given moment the names of people are to be reduced to the table, counselor, you know we'll be at your side. And if there's ever gonna be any restrictions, too. But sometimes, to take an example to give clarity, what it does is to generate more confusion and harm one of the sectors that has already suffered enough in this pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.79.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.80.0	We all know that if we're around a table – or not a table – without the mask, right? , and we're not two, not four, not six, but fifteen, come, and the hospital of Málaga is not an example... And I remember very often saying that neither the primary care teams nor the hospital services are in the classic, that it's the appetizer, that it's not the dinar, it's the appetizer, that we can buy all the folds and do it, so, at work... that's what we don't have to do, and that's what we all know. And from this point of view, it's not a matter of whether to restore it or not; it's whether we do it at home, it's whether we do it outside. And from this point of view, we all know today that what prevention is is the life of ventilation, the life of the mask and the life of the vaccine. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.81.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on Aran's financing. [[Ask the Government about Aran's financing]] [[310-00164/13]] The question is posed by Mr Jordi..., Óscar Ordeig – I'm sorry – of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.82.0	Jordi Ordeig is my brother. Thank you. [[Rialles.]] Good morning. In the first place, send a greeting to all the spiders and spiders, and our recognition to the institutions and skills of the Aran, as it cannot be in any other way. He'll advise, with all due respect, why is it so hard for them to complete with the Aran? Why does it cost so much? We recognize a better lightness of forms in this new stage of government. But what's going on? That when the presupposition of 2022, when up the time to complete with the agreements that you yourself made with the foreign institutions, we see how there is a detail of the eighty-four_per_cent of investments in years accumulated, the failure of the creation of the additional funding fund to which you were compromised, or is not complete with the deployment of the law of the Aran. The Aran is a territory that has forged its history, culture, language, institutions at the length of the centuries, at the length of many difficulties and adversities, and precisely need its competitive deployment in order to be able to face it. A few days ago, with the president of our parliamentary group, Salvador Illa, we were going to hold working meetings in the Aran. And do you know what they're telling us? That they were worried and denied. Concern and denial because the government is not, or is not enough; concern and denial because they do not complete the agreements, because they cannot deploy their own government, as they were saying; concern and denial because it has disappeared..., practically disappeared the reversal of the Generality. Will he advise, will the government at once comply with the spiders and spiders with the law of Aran and with the agreements they had to finance? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.83.0	To answer, has the word Laura Vilagrà, adviser of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.84.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll talk about fets, not words. The whole government, and especially the Department of the Presidency, and especially the Secretary of Local Governments and Relations with the Aran, has a 100_per_cent commitment to deploy the special rule law of the Aran. In fact, in these seven months that we carry, as the constitution of the Government, we have already made a bilateral commission in which we have granted important transfers, such as that of the management of great carnivores– in fact, we have approved it for the Government, too –; also fears linked to salvation or finance of the Arane language, which, therefore..., is very pleased to have thrown it forward. We have also constituted the pose of transfers, we will define future transfers. And, on the other hand, the coming week is the follow-up committee for the financing of the Aran's model of emergencies. I, for what it presupposes, remarkable increase: concretely, 3,5_million euros. And I will put it this way: the year 2020 we have allocated 25.1 and this 2022 we have allocated 28.6 to a band of 1.3 to arrange reelings. And, in relation to the unconditional financing agreement, we have offered two proposals to the General Council of Aran to complete this agreement. And in any case, let's wait for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.85.0	To answer, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.86.0	Counselor, I'm talking about words. I also said it, wanted to replicate it with words, but we need facts. "Words of love, sensileness and tenderness, however, if they do not come accompanied by facts and concrete, do not serve for nothing, as Joan Manuel Serrat said. Do you know what's going on, Counselor? Let the Aran put them before the Mirall: all they claim in Madrid is that they don't offer to the Aran. Claim loyalty to Madrid and offer subordination to the Aran; claim investments to Madrid and offer a breakdown of the eighty-four_per_cent to the Aran; claim respect for autonomy in Madrid and offer free competitions that make it impossible to deploy self-government. So, a lot of complaints there, we get a lot of exquisite when they're talking about the others, and we're talking about when they're talking about us. In short, you make good the maximum amount of advice I sell that I don't have. He will advise, the Aran is far away, but his government at these times, said for the spiders, is still far further away, and his government is getting longer and longer. Please, fill in once with the Aran General Council, and enough victimism and excuses to fill in the granted one. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.87.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.88.0	Yes, thank you. Well, either he didn't listen to me or I didn't explain it well – I certainly didn't explain it well. In any case, the law of the Aran provides, in fact, the right to decide on the Aran in all these aspects that we are concrete. And, in any case, I will explain to you to which the Catalan Government has committed with this foundation of unconditional financing previewed additional endowment of 578,000 euros for four years. But in any case, this foundation had only one condition, which is that we are not on extended assumption, which is the case of enguany. And in any case, we have done an intense job between Economy and Presidency precisely to give two options to the General Council to complete; to complete and, moreover, to complete with generosity. On one side, extend it a year later, let's say, or allocate half of these guinea pig money, which would correspond to guinea pig money, to the year 2022 and to the year 2023. It seems to us that it is a correct way of completing with the agreement that we have, that we have with the Aran. I, in any case, also end up with two or three context figures. As you know, the Aran has a few thousand inhabitants, and the General Council of Aran is a unique territorial entity to which we absolutely respect the competitions. But let us also say that we know that the Aran has 10_million euros of positive romance that can also obviously be used for public policies for the people of the Aran. Therefore, we are completely compromised with the management of these resources for the spiders and for the common good. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.89.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the value he deserves from the settlement suffered by the family of a child from a school in Canet de Mar (Maresme) who asks for twenty-five percent of the classes in the castle]] [[317-00091/13]] The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.90.0	Thank you, President. How do you rate the harassment of Canet de Mar's family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.92.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, the Government of Catalonia is clearly against any discrimination within and outside the country's schools, and we will always be on the side of all people who may suffer some kind of discrimination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.93.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.94.0	Mr Aragonès, at the last plenary session, on a question from the VOX Group, you solemnly raised the risks of democracy in Catalonia, which you believe should be combated by establishing a health cord. Well, I will give you my vision of the real risks of democracy in Catalonia, which, as you can imagine, is quite different. Look, in this plenary we live with 135 Members whom we think very differently, but the only ones who have posed smiling with a convicted murderer like Carles Sastre are you, the separatists. The Carles Sastre affair has always been especially significant to me because of the savagery of the subject in question: he laid a bomb on Bultó's chest, whom he abandoned so that, hours later, the bomb would tear him apart. I explain it so that I don't compare a barbarity like this with any recent police charges. I've always wondered what psychological mechanism leads normal people like you to pose smiling at such a criminal. I have come to the conclusion that this is a moral relativism that has stolen their souls. A higher political objective – in their case, Catalonia's independence – leads them to justify anything. Well, that same moral relativism, not so wild, fortunately, has gone for a walk these days through Canet de Mar: in the name of the sacrosanct linguistic immersion everything is worth it. They stir up the coldness and lack of humanity with which they refer to a child and his or her family. It is to them, to whom you apply a health cord: to point out and stigmatize. It is that moral relativism, the real risk to democracy in Catalonia, Mr Aragonès. And I'm committed to fighting it here and now. I'll never pose with a murderer, think like I think; I'll never point to a child and his family, think what you think. That is the only way for coexistence and democracy, there is no other way. And I hope you guys will run it sometime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.95.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.96.0	Mr. Deputy, please stop doing bad politics and worse politics with the Catalan school. Leave the Catalan school, please. I'm leaving the Catalan school. [[Some applause.]] He knows perfectly well, and he knows... because you know that he is lying, that his intervention has been a continuous list of lies to justify his political position, absolutely unjustifiable. You know that this government, that all the administration of the generality and that all the teachers of this country are like a pinya against any discrimination – against any discrimination. You are using absolutely repugnant and repugnant messages to try to fill a media speech that the only one who wants to get four votes to the rest of the State at the expense of breaking the social cohesion of this country, because you know that no one here is voting for them anymore – no one is voting for them anymore – ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party. [[Some applause.]] That's enough. There's no way to try to get votes in Spain to break the cohesion in Catalonia. They will not, because we are a pinya in defense of democracy in this country, in defense of social cohesion. And enough to use the Catalan language to try to roll back four miserable votes. That's enough. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.97.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on linguistic freedom in Catalan society]] [[317-00089/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.98.0	Mr. Aragonès, do you believe that the small number of indignation with which you have given us now serves for something to the parents of Canet school who are being harassed? And are you going to show yourself this Saturday to put another nail in the casket of Catalan language freedom? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.100.0	You're also part of this strategy. In fact, you were born with this strategy. You came here to Parliament to break the broad consensus of this society – social consensus, political consensus, pedagogical consensus – on the Catalan school model. In fact, the language model at the Catalan school is what led to the birth of his party. So we don't surprise people. But today you have the opportunity, here, to apologize. Apologize, for example, to the whole educational community of Sant Andreu de la Barca. [[Greetings.]] You've dedicated yourselves to assigning teachers. The leader of his party – now I don't know if he's already in the PP or I don't know where he is, because they're all going there –..., the leader of his party of the moment published photos, names, identifying people. This was an asset, much more so than not this pair of tutorials, which obviously nobody knows who they are. Therefore, you today have the opportunity to apologize, and that the person who recognized his spokesman from Ciutadans to Sant Andreu de la Barca will recognize you here in Parliament, who now sees that the asset was nothing, was not based on nothing, and that everything came from a bad feeling. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.101.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.102.0	You referred precisely to the first episode of harassment of children, ideologically, which took place in Catalonia and which was made public, which is when the children of the civil guards and the police were pointed out by the teachers. [[Widow's remorse.]] The mere fact of asking who was a civil warden's son is vomiting. [[applause]] ; the fact that it is not a crime does not mean that it is not disgusting. And you guys at the inspection didn't do anything. And that was the first episode, because now we have a five-year-old stalked. And for what? To silence the Catalans. That's what you want. And we, yes, were born to speak, to prevent you from silence the Catalans since you are five years old, to prevent you from continuing to silence the young people in the universities, with the deputies of the UPC, the same ones who manifest themselves to silence the parents in the schools. And they're also trying to shut us up here in the hemicycles. Well, they won't make it, Madam President. They're not gonna make it either. Look, my absolute contempt for these liberticated behaviors that carry out the same ones that promote attacks in universities. Three Members of this House are going to speak out to press a family next to their school, which is disgusting! I hope the PSC will assume that we are facing a historic opportunity to turn the battle of public opinion around. [[Widow's remorse.]] Canet is a kind of Ermua, saving the distances: it serves to raise the Catalans' awareness of what you are doing with Catalan society. [[Some applause.]] Mr. Aragonès, leave behind identity nationalism and do not try to put doors to the countryside. Freedom, Spain, the Spanish, the Spanish..., will come out and arise from the cracks of Catalonia, will avoid the control of their spies in the schools, their thugs in the universities, the political commissioners who watch shops, dispensaries or parliamentary hemicycles. Understand that Catalonia will never be one of the nationalist myths that you want it to be. Then it will be possible to recover the coexistence in Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.104.0	Mr. MP, compare the media offensive that you have contributed to Canet de Mar trying to use, so, what this is and trying to use a family in this sense too..., but compare this to Ermua, a town that suffered from violence, that suffered from terrorism, I think it's a comparison that you shouldn't have done and that shows you don't have any point of argument. With a society that has suffered from violence and terrorism, to serve these comparisons... it should not be allowed in any way. It's an insult to all victims. I think you're wrong today. Mr. Carrizosa, you're wrong. I know you, and I am convinced that, when you think about it, after this intervention, it will depend on what you have done, to compare what is going on these days of debate around the language of the schools with terrorism, with the murder of Miguel Ángel Blanco. I don't think I should be allowed. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.105.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the need to convene a meeting of all political parties to achieve a unified position to strengthen the financing system]] [[317-00092/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.106.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, to say the least, because today we are hearing authentic barbarity. President, you know that the Ministry of Hysenda has started the way to reform the financing system, which has expired since 2014 and which, moreover, is deeply unfair to Catalonia. And you should also know that there are various autonomous communities – Galícia, Castella and Lleó, Castella - la Manxa, Aragó, Extremadura, Asturias, Rioja and Cantábria – that have joined forces around Santiago's declaration to jointly negotiate the reform of the financial system and, moreover, confronting its interests with ours, with territories with Catalonia, of the Mediterranean arc. And before that, president, we understand that two things are falling apart. The first is an urgent meeting of the parties in Catalonia to build a joint proposal, because this is not party, but country. And the second is to build a Mediterranean alliance for financing with the Valencian country, with the Balearic Islands, to strengthen and end the current injustice. And so, president, we ask you if you intend to convene a meeting with the parties in Catalonia to have a unified proposal to reform the financing system.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.108.0	Mrs Albiach, we, as the government, would always be in every area where we should defend the interests of Catalonia's citizens, and also the economic interests. Now, I think we also need to be aware of the basis on which this debate has taken place in the area of finance. And you yourself explained, how this debate has historically occurred based on a confrontation of fronts between different territories. We're not going in there. And we won't go in there because at these times or... not even the state government is putting more resources on the table in the system. In fact, the adjusted population proposal made by the Government of the State penalizes Catalonia, penalizes the Valencia Country and penalizes other territories of the Mediterranean area, consolidates the status quo. And I believe that, if they want to work together to improve the Generality's resources, to which I invite them is to pinya because 2022 is able to articulate a covid fund that strengthens the health system, because there will be no agreement in this legislature in the matter of autonomous financing. See how the People's Party is, see how the blocks are located and what is the state's willingness to put in more resources. But we do have the extraordinary background experience in sanitation, a sanitation that still continues in the pandemic – the company continues in the pandemic – which we need to continue to reinforce. And, therefore, I take the word from him, but I take it so that I can make a common front because there is an extraordinary fund for the financing of sanitation as a continuation of the covid fund, precisely because we are still in a pandemic.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.109.0	To answer the question, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.110.0	President, the very thing that's going on is the financing system, and you can't lower your arms. Look, I think you, and in a very uncertain way, said the other day that the question of language had to stay out of the party. And I give him the reason. And, besides, you know that you'll have us at your side, that we'll give you all the support at the time to launch judicial measures, political measures to shield the català. And I think this very unit is what we need to reform issues like the financing system. Because, I say again, this isn't about games, this is about country. I say it, and I can't be more honest: I don't like the proposal made by the Ministry of Heritage. It's so much better. For our parliamentary group this is not a good, adjunct and necessary proposal for Catalonia. And I also say: we know that now, in disbelief and in general, it is when proposals are made to modify this reform of the financing system. That's why we're asking for this urgent meeting of parties in Catalonia. And there it is: what has to be the model, for us? So a new funding model that is based on a own history, obviously, where we have to be able to decide fully on our taxes, solidary, but also, and, above all, ordinary. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.112.0	The financing model of the public services of the country, of Catalonia, of the combination of public services..., the only financing model that will be justly independent. Because we will be able to dispose of the resources generated by workers, businesses, families, as consumers in this country. And the proposal of the Ministry of Heritage... is that it is not a matter of going to war with percentages of how the adjusted population is calculated, but that the question is what are the taxes that the Government of Catalonia can collect, and here there is no proposal. Traditionally many of these reforms have taken place with a cessation of taxes. We're not talking about tax cuts here. Or with more resources on the table; therefore, also vertical distribution of resources: the State takes resources and puts them in the autonomous communities. It's not like that either. Therefore, with these bases, I think it is obvious that this is a debate that will not lead to agreement, but we can do so in the field of coven. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.113.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the reports submitted to Decree-Law 24/2021 on the acceleration of the deployment of distributed and participating renewable energies, especially those on which the competences of local administrations are undermined]] [[317-00095/13]] The question is posed by Mr Dani Cornellà, Member of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.114.0	Good morning, President. You and Councilwoman Jordan presented the new decree of renewables in a media act where they invited the entities, parties and many agents of the territory in general. Now that your government's parties have submitted statements to the law decree via accompanying law, will they also take any action to explain themselves? What do you and the government think about these items? Have they done them with the participation of the territory, as you said in the act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.115.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.116.0	Thank you very much, President. As you know, the energy transition is an absolutely essential challenge for our country. We've got a lot of way to narrow down the margin of improvement. That is why the new regulation in the field of renewables is essential, which in fact is already on the move and we are moving forward. Obviously, it can always be susceptible to some type of adjustment, which is what has been done in these reviews, but the principles, obviously, of the law of this system of generation of renewables distributed, participated, democratised, which is done in agreement with the territory, with the participation of local administrations, are not only maintained, but are absolutely strengthened. It is very important that from now on, starting with setting up the new standard framework, we accelerate the projects. Accelerate projects, so that there are more renewable energy generation operators; so that they are more distributed, more involved; to give space, for example, to energy cooperatives and to the promotion of self-consumption, and also to lower energy production in the areas of energy consumption.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.117.0	To answer that question, Mr. Dani Cornellà has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.118.0	President, it seems to me to be an act of cynicism that on the same day that the plenary discussed and approved Decree 24/2021, of the renewables, the government parties were registering for the door behind a set of items to the decree to equal it even more. They did a great act explaining the alleged bonds of the decree, and then they added that they presented papers, a new deception to the territory. Curiously, or not so much, the Socialist Group has presented the same ideas, calcades to their own. For us, semantics does matter. « Minimizing is not « avoiding the affectation to the ecological connectors or on the threatened species, and reducing the gap between the population nuclei and the aerogenerators from one _kilometre to five hundred_metres..., that is to say, better? What do you think, from the Emena 36 to the Accompaniment Law of the Socialist Group? A point that concerns us, and a lot, that clearly attacks the municipal autonomy, defending that the assemblies cannot exercise their powers in suspense of disputes or modifications of the POUM concerning this issue. Let us hope, therefore, that you do not support this proposal and respect them. We therefore propose interventionism in order to maintain the little autonomy that the assemblies already have. Suppose they don't give it support. We assume that this government is for the defense of the rights of the people and cities to decide in the few competitions they have attributed. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.119.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.120.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, this decree you've been working on for a long time. You haven't had the opportunity, too, and we've had the opportunity to make various meetings and work it out. Finally, they legitimately decided to vote against it, but I think it reflects a good part of what we were working on and what we were discussing, probably not as much as you would, but I also think we need to make the approval of this new standard in this Parliament work. From here, we will continue to work to strengthen the role of local administrations. The regional energy transition offices have to be the support point that they have to have many joints that at these times are found lacking technical resources when a project that has a landscape impact or an impact on agricultural soils or protected spaces is presented. And, therefore, we will remain at the side of the gatherings. But the renewables implementation process went much further than that. And, therefore, we need to equip and equip the Department of Climate Action with more resources to accelerate what all the processes are. And, above all, we have to face... there is a compromise that needs a balance, but either we decarbonize the energy production of this country or, if we wait many years, there will be no country here to defend. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.121.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply in full on the general political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the assignment of families who disagree with the linguistic model in the education system]] [[317-00090/13]] Asks the question to Mr. Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.122.0	Mr. Aragonès, how long are you going to keep pointing and harassing families who disagree with your separatist project?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.124.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Garriga, this government doesn't set up, it doesn't assign anyone. You yesterday held a demonstration here before intimidating me – directly addressed to my person – to intimidate me and to step back in the defense of the català. They won't make it. Do it every day, because I will continue to defend the Catalan language every day as the language of social cohesion of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.125.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.126.0	Mr. Aragonès, if I had a minimum of decency, I wouldn't be sitting in that chair. [[Widow's remorse.]] Neither you nor the rest of your government. Last week they carried out one of the most despicable acts that political leaders have ever done: the targeting and harassment of a five-year-old and his family for defending their educational rights and demanding compliance with the Constitution in Catalonia. And the connivance of Mr Illa, the Socialist Party and its trade unions with separatist fanaticism is regrettable, and shows the abandonment by all of you of the working class. They constitute, all of you, separatists and socialists, a very great danger for Catalonia. They have become a normal matter – studying at school in our nation's own language – in an anomaly that needs anonymous heroes, such as this Canet family and so many others who have raised their voices to defend legality. Mr. Aragonès, they pose a threat to the weakest and the most innocent, the children. In November all of you hid and silenced in the face of the savage group rape of a sixteen-year-old girl in Igualada. Now they are chasing a five-year-old boy and sending his violent ones to harass the family, and, in addition, they are mobilizing all their separatist associations to prevent compliance with the law, always pointing from the institutions, right? , so that others on the streets or on the doors of schools attack the weakest. You're the worst sentence for Catalonia. But be very clear – and remember always, Mr Aragonès –..., give up all hope, because very soon thousands and thousands of Catalan families, proud of their land and their homeland, will go out to the streets to claim their rights, to denounce the abandonment by the institutions, to demand the return of competences to get their hands off the education of our children, and to suspend autonomy as long as is necessary to restore the constitutional order, the legitimate rights and freedoms of all Catalans. Because you, and you personally, represent the greatest threat to the prosperity and well-being of all Catalans. And we will be as many times as it takes in the Parliament of Catalonia, in all the squares of Catalonia, to tell them that they are totalitarian and dangerous to the future of our children. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.128.0	The banalization of words is one of the greatest evils that can be done to the democratic debate. And at the length of today's plenary – and we're only wearing two hours, in fact – we've heard how many words have tried to lose their meaning, using them for confrontation, using them with many lies that we've heard here and using them to try to get against what they say: to overcome coexistence, to deepen tension. There's someone who wants to make tension, chrispancy, conflict, his vote pool. They won't find us, ladies and gentlemen of the extreme right. We'll be on the side of solutions and consensus. You are not pleased with the consensuses that exist in this country; social consensuses, pedagogical consensuses, political consensuses, too. They don't like the teachers, they don't like the teachers' unions. They do not, in short, like the Catalan school. They do not like the movement of pedagogical renewal, they do not like the educational community. What you're trying to do is change the majority of this country as they've always done: they've never done it because of the votes, they've always done it because of the force. Therefore, we will always, always, always defend the way of voting. And if I'm sure of this, it's because the Parliament of Catalonia, representing the people of Catalonia, voted for me. And the will of the people of Catalonia does not represent it, much less, courts that are dedicated to political action and that you often have as allies, intervene ideologically in decisions that have a broad consensus in Catalan society. Before that, united among all the forces that we defend the model of Catalan school, bet for social cohesion and coexistence. And, above all, we are talking about the better of the linguistic skills of the schools and of all the skills, because what divides in this country is not the language, it is the inequalities that politicians like theirs always try to deepen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.129.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Asks the President of the Generality about actions to address the situation in the automotive sector]] [[317-00096/13]] The question is put by Mr Albert Batet, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.130.0	Thank you very much, President. President, members of the Government, deputies and deputies... In the first place, we want to express the support of Junts for Catalonia, all the support and all the solidarity, to the third secretary of the Bureau, in Pau Juvillà, who has seen a totally unfair feeling to defend freedom of expression. [[Some applause.]] Second place, president, a mention. Together for Catalonia we will not contribute to making a language supporter, as we have seen during this control session. There's no politics with the language. We have already expressed fifteen days ago, in this control session, our willingness and readiness to make a united front ahead of the attack on the Catalan language. We have the obligation to preserve our language, but we also have the duty to guarantee as much as possible the linguistic rights of Catalan speakers in all areas: at school, at trade, at communication media, at cinema..., in all areas. It's time for action. It is time for responsibility, unity culture and a historic consensus that was used to boost language after Francoism. The one who did not finish the franchise will not finish now four eixelebrates to our country. President, this week we have had bad news for what it does to the automotive sector in Catalonia. We didn't feel one very hard, which is that Great Wall Motors made public refusing to locate itself at Nissan Factory, in the Free Zone. Because of this decision, 1,400 Nissan workers have already begun to get their cards together; 1,400 Catalans and Catalans who will lose their jobs before the end of the year. The loss of every job place is bad news for the country, and more than it affects hundreds and hundreds of Catalans in bulk. We are aware that there are alternatives for the Free Zone, but we want to expose the need for a calm and wide-eyed approach to the country's industrialization process and product model. The National Pact for Industry is a necessary opportunity, but not enough. Calen, too, short-term actions. We defend sustainability, quality occupation and digitalization, key milestones for the 21st century Catalonia. And in this sense, President, we would like to know the actions that the Government has planned to take to deal with this situation in the automotive sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.132.0	Thank you, President. Mr Juvillà, Member of the Bureau. All our support, and forward. I also thank him for his words – and I thank him very sincerely – around the need for unity in defence of the Catalan school language model and the set of actions in all areas in defence of our language. And so I appreciate your support and I'm holding my hand to work together, all the time, in this sense. From here on, you asked me some concrete questions, focusing on the future of the industry, especially in the automotive sector. There are performances that we're doing, by the way. In the case of Nissan, he has been working on different alternatives. By chance, therefore, the decision – which we regret – of the Chinese company that would allow the continued manufacture of automobiles to the Free Zone..., this decision does not take us without working alternatives. There are other alternatives in the field of manufacturing, in the field of logistics, in the field of digitalization, that we will continue to work. And we will do so as we have done, at the Nissan Reindustrialization Table, from the hands of the unions, from the hands, in this case too, of other administrations that have a key role in capturing investments at the expense of the Government of Catalonia. Short-term actions that we have done, for example, working for the re-industrialization of other plants of automotive components industries that have had to be closed. But work is also very important in the medium and long term. The automotive sector faces, at world level and especially at European level, changes in its entire value chain. The decarbonization of mobility means that the manufacture of combustion engine cars will be abandoned and will be converted to the manufacture of electric car. Catalonia is ready to paste the entire value chain of electric vehicle production, and in some areas we are especially strong. We must take advantage of the potential of Martorell's factory. That we have good news, too, that the Volkswagen Group signs the manufacture of small platform electric cars to Martorell, and that's very good news. And, obviously, we are prepared for other areas, such as, for example, the research center in the field of batteries. But we'll have to be bosses, and by means of the Next Generation funds, to extend the transformation to the rest of the industry and the components. The National Pact for Industry, in this sense, is a key piece and will have adequate funding. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.133.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the guarantee of the future of Catalan language]] [[317-00093/13]] The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Jové, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.134.0	Thank you very much, President. President, protecting the catalá is one of the most important and urgent challenges that arise, and it does not face empty proclamations. We are few talking in a globalizing and assimilating world of cultures. We have always had a pre-obsessed empire to exlave diversity without manners. Our company has changed another time. We're no longer in Catalonia in the 80s, President. Catalan is a tool of social cohesion and equality of opportunity, yes; because we do not want linguistic realities out of place, we do not want to go through, nor ask permission. We want to live fully in català, because the language also wants it rich, full and free, and shared. The task of preserving it is, above all, our job. It's a common pocket for all of us, and it's close to all of us. And we are convinced that everyone will be there, as they were, also in times of hiding and dictatorship. Because it's a country consensus; it has to be. We must speak it, share it, put it in value and offer it to everyone as a universal language. For the right it has to exist and be defended, also for historical, cultural and hopeful respect. And the school is a key, foundational piece, and we have to preserve it. Linguistic immersion is a country success, collectible and irrefutable. Even so many of those who today reject it so clinging to being a living proof. Infants and young people have at their center a point of finding, despite the fact that some people want to dress in confrontation. Our classrooms are a space of coexistence. The Catalan school is, above all, the place where we build the future we want for our children: inclusive, open, equitable, just and democratic. That is why political and judicial attacks persist, to overthrow her. And they won't drop it. In defense of the school we want and the teacher, which is not a protective box, disbands all of us in the street, and always, to let us know that the language is not touching and that the strength is us. President, fifteen days ago I was talking to him about a sentence against the teaching of català, and today we have been talking about another, and unfortunately they will not be the last. Because, much as they say, the Spanish Constitution is not a guarantee of Catalan protection, but an excuse to violate it. So what is the best way to guarantee the future of the català? I take advantage of these few seconds to also express our solidarity and support for Pau Juvillà. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.136.0	Thank you, President. Mr. MP, this government will make the defense and promotion of Catalan language one of the axes of our executive action and legislative impulses, too. Different ambits. In the field of school, judicial decisions... judicial intrusions from the past weeks set us a new stage forward. But we are starting from a very uplifting act: the cohesion and consensus that has existed in the political sphere, in this Parliament, in the social sphere and in the pedagogical sphere of the Catalan school language model, we must preserve them. Tomorrow we have calls for entities in the educational, pedagogical, and linguistic fields, to work together with the Government. We will do so at a summit where there will be proposals on the table also to reinforce what is the legislative sphere; to reinforce what are the policies that are constantly doing at school and outside the classroom, also promoting català as language, not only by its knowledge, but also by its social use. Therefore, in the first place, in the school environment, the proper saying will be at the top. Unitary work. And I think today it was very clear, in this House, that we want to work for solutions and that we want to use it to divide society. And the ones we want to work on for solutions are a vast majority. Second of all, it's not just a school question; cultural consumption is a key element. And here the field of audiovisual is a specific field, and there are initiatives in different legislative chambers. The Government is also moving towards the first modification of the Catalan audiovisual law. But not only do you see politics, but also resources. And the increase in the resources of the Department of Culture will also focus on a good part, in which is the clear bet for creation in Catalan language: literary creation, cultural creation, creation in the audiovisual field. Which is used to make agreements with large distributors of cultural consumer products. And then, beyond the realms of school and audiovisual, it is a clear defense of the promotion of language in all spheres: in all linguistic areas – and, therefore, joining forces with Valencia, the Balearic Islands, Northern Catalonia and Aragó – but also especially in all the cross-cutting spheres of government work. And that is why we want to make possible, during the first half of the year, the national language pact, which already has a very good basis, approved for the eighty-five percent of this Parliament. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.137.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the need for political parties to work in coordination to give solutions to the Nissan plant in the Free Zone, Barcelona]] [[317-00094/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Party and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.138.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aragonès, a previa for allusions on the català to the school. Three things, I mean. Don't wait for my group at the partisan and political fight for language at school. It's the worst way to defend the català. They're all leaving the Catalan school, one and the other. [[Widow's remorse.]] The second thing: putting focus on a student, a family and a school should reflect on all of us. Maybe they'll stop. Three: Language and attitude count. I'd like to... I think it's a little more serene in this debate that affects living together in Catalonia. And for the time being, I'm not saying. And today I wanted to focus [[some applause]] On another assumption, I think I'm also in charge of Catalonia – Mr. Batet raised it. And I don't want to ask you any questions, Mr. Aragonès. I want to make them an offer and a petition. I'm talking about Nissan, Nissan's announced tank. Three thousand direct workers, twenty thousand indirect workers, forty years of industrial history in Catalonia. And today, the 15th, I think it's closed the second and last lines of production of the Navara model pick-up. It is one of the most recent industrial locks in Catalonia. This is a theme to let go of the differences and work together, all together, the whole room together. I believe that, with general character, there is a good coordination between the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain. The families of the workers affected... the citizens of Catalonia must know that in this matter we do everything we have to do, together. The offer I make is my support, my group's support and my party's support, to work co-ordinates on this subject, especially in the next few days, and my commitment not to make a policy of narrow-mindedness or a bottom line with this. We don't play with food. And the petition is a direct line, a fluid communication, especially these own days; a personal implication of it, that I do not say that there is – it is more, I know it is – a realistic analysis of the options available, that there is not; listen to the workers and the unions, and give a horitzo to Nissan. You've got me on your side, on this one. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.140.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Illa, you've done a previa, and in this sense, I appreciate the words in the sense of not using language as a party weapon. I think we have also seen with whom it can be counted and with whom it has not, who has used it in this House and with whom it has not. And I don't think we all have to take note of decisions we have to take in the future. The standard mark, also because of judicial decisions that go into pedagogical criteria in an absolutely incomprehensible way, has changed, and, therefore, must also change the decisions that we have to make as the government, that we will have to take in this chamber, and that we will have to do among all. And we want you to be there too. And we want to do it together all that we have defended the Catalan school language model in the past few years and that we have not been, therefore, authors, let's say..., or that they are our political traditions. From here, on Nissan, I also thank his willingness to cooperate. He knows that the two governments, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, have been working together with the different options of reindustrialisation, especially the Councillor of Enterprise and Work with the Minister of Industry; that he has worked precisely to be able to now have different options on the table and that there has been a question that has concerned us since the first minute. In fact, he's been worrying about us for a long time. I remember May 2020, when there was an important effort because there might be an agreement respecting the closure that you allow resources for reindustrialisation, and that's what today also allows us to have different options on the table. We'll have to keep working, we'll have to keep working together all the administrations. I guarantee you and all the groups in the chamber that have the anime of... as you have expressed, of construction work, direct line with the government and joint work. But we also need to have a long look. We also have some important decisions to make in the coming weeks that respect the future of the car. The PERTE must be a good instrument, and we must achieve that the maximum – the maximum – of linked projects here can come to Catalonia not for a question of territorial demand, but because we have the actiu, because it is a sector that accounts for the deu_per_cent of GDP, 200,000 places of direct and indirect work. And, therefore, the future of this key sector of the Catalan industry is at stake and must keep us all at bay. And, therefore, we will work in coordination. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.141.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.142.0	No, no, I won't answer. Since the first day of your presidency, Mr Aragonès, you have been asked to open a dialog in Catalonia. I think the facts that we are living show the need to do so with a certain urgency. I propose we take advantage of these Nadal days to reflect on it. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.143.0	To answer, you have the word of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.144.0	With those who want to talk and not to cry in this Parliament, we will always have our hands full. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.145.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. [[Communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions]] It is the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. The current composition of the Bureau of the Greuges Syndicate Commission is included in the Plenary's file, and has therefore been distributed to all Members, and I urge them to complete their reading. [[Question to the Government about the attitude of children and families claiming right to partake as at least twenty-five per cent of school hours in the castle]] [[300-00092/13]] Complete, therefore, the article 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we pass to the next item on the order of the day, the inquiry to the Government on the settlement suffered by children and families who claim the right to share as at least the twenty-five per cent of teaching hours in the castle. It was introduced by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. And, to make the presentation of the inquiry, has the word the deputy Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.146.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, today the ban on the public debate in Catalonia on the language, on the so-called ‘language immersion', on this system of linguistic imposition which, in a bilingual society, imposes a monolingual system, something – I insist on an idea that I believe some in this Chamber are not clear enough – which is unusual anywhere else, in any other region of any democratic country in the world. There is no place in the world where a bilingual society is imposed on a monolingual system. That..., when some separatist politicians say that they are going to go to Europe to explain the linguistic situation in Catalonia, they forget that they are going to have very difficult to explain to Europeans, both in the European Union and in the Council of Europe, that you, despite having a majority of citizens in this autonomous community that has the Spanish as their mother tongue..., what you do is deny them that right to the citizens of Catalonia with the Spanish as their mother tongue to educate also in their mother tongue. I insist on it too, because it is very important. Because this debate, unfortunately, is full of lies. Of lies, Mr Cambray, who come mainly from the separatist parties, who say: "No, this system does not discriminate against anyone. But, let's see, how is it not going to discriminate a monolingual system in Catalan to a society that has Spanish as its mother tongue mostly? How is it not going to discriminate against the citizens of Catalonia who want to school their children also in Spanish a system that fundamentally excludes any manifestation of the Spanish language common to all Spaniards in the Catalan educational system? If you were to say to me, Mr Cambray: "No, look, it seems to me that Catalan should be the centre of gravity of the educational system, as the Constitutional Court says, but it seems to me good that the Spanish language and Spanish literature have, in addition to the Spanish language and Spanish literature subject, a subject or a couple of subjects in Spanish; that the Spanish language, but the Spanish language and Spanish language should be taught, I would say: "Mr Cambray, we can talk, and then I would think, your position is reasonable. But your position seems absolutely crazy to me, when you tell me that what you are still trying to impose in Catalonia is a monolingual system in which you only study in Catalan. I insist, that has no precedent anywhere in Europe or in the world. Therefore, when you go through Europe, be careful to explain these things, because, I insist, it is an unusual thing. Moreover, I am very pleased that Mr Aragonès, the President of the Generalitat, says that here some of us have come to wink and that Citizens were born to destroy the Catalan language or the system of linguistic immersion. Man, if we're gonna have a rational debate, we can talk about a number of things. Make it very clear, Mr Aragonès, that to end the Catalan language, Ciutadans was not born. To end a profoundly unjust and discriminatory system, which discriminates against Spanish-speaking citizens, Catalans who have Spanish as their mother tongue, and Catalans who have Catalan as their mother tongue, but who also have the right to educate their children in an official language of the State, in addition to the power that the Spanish language has in the world..., indeed, Citizens was born to end such a profoundly discriminatory system, so deeply unjust and that it so profoundly violates the rights of the citizens of Catalonia. Of course, that's clear. Moreover, when we talk about what is happening in Catalonia, about whether you are doing things reasonably, if you do not discriminate... They say: "We are against any discrimination that may occur in our community. Listen, Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, Mr Aragonès, but if four days ago the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has told you that you discriminated against the police and the civil guards in the application of the vaccine by the covid. How can they say that they are against any discrimination? Moreover, he has outraged them very, curiously, what the chairman of our parliamentary group, Mr Carrizosa, has said when quoting..., speaking of the discrimination that the Catalan educational system entails and the indignation that has undoubtedly aroused in Catalan society that case of the family of Canet, a family that, by the way, by asking the twenty-five_per_cent of the teaching hours in Spanish has been the object of an authentic lynching on social networks, lynching not by four tarados, Mr Cambray, as Mr Aragonès seemed to say, by a deputy... - sorry - by a member of the Junts per Catalunya lists. You deny this gentleman, Mr Donaire – let's say the names –, member of the Junts per Catalunya list, talking, among other things, about making the five-year-old child whose parents have asked for education also in Spanish, and a university professor who already..., the truth is that the thing is crying out to heaven, that a university professor says something like that, talking about going to stone the house of parents who have asked for education also in Spanish for their son. Listen, I'm Catalan, and I'm sorry... By the way, I'm Catalan... when on the networks I say I'm Catalan, many of the separatist trolls, some of them also members of the Junts per Catalunya lists, deny me my catalanity. I recognize that when these things happen to me, as they are denied to Members of the People's Party, to Members of the VOX or to Members of the Socialist Party, I, who feel deeply Catalan and who defend and cultivate Catalan language and culture as they surely do not many of you..., I recognize that I think: "Look, if that is your idea of Catalanity, please confide in it. Of course, confide in her. If anyone... [[Greetings.]] If someone in the rest of Spain questioned my Spanishness..., to make interventions in this Parliament in Catalan, and I say someone represented by the rest of Spain who soc least Spanish than a person from Castella, Galícia, Basque Country or Andalusia for the fact of speaking also in Catalan, I would say exactly the same: « Confite your Spanishness. But I assure you, it doesn't happen. What is happening in Catalonia, I insist, is a democratic anomaly that has been absolutely bleached, normalized and instigated by you, the separatist parties. We must tell you things as they are, because, if not, you come here and are allowed to give lessons in education, in courtesy. Tell us: "But how can you compare what happened in Ermua with what happened in Canet? Look, I'll tell you what. What happened in Ermua is a thing of a radically different magnitude than what happens in many other places in the world, but these days it was published in a_medium called The Objective, by a philosopher of jundia, of this country's fuste, who is called David Mejía – not our former deputy, but a Spanish philosopher and literary – where he said that the spirit of Ermua was the time when an important part of Basque society that had been silent before the systematic abuses of the abertzale environment, not only of the ETA, but of the nationalists who supported the abertzale environment, were silent in their villages, they were silent in their cities for fear - it is human to be afraid -..., because exactly the same thing happens when in Canet what happens. And I admire the family of this child of Canet, who has had the aplom, the courage, the courage to manifest himself before the public and to demand his rights before the school that violated them. [[Some applause.]] That is the parallelism that can be established between what happened in Ermua and what happens in Canet. Now, I also tell you one thing – I feel very fair doing this explanation to you; I shouldn't do it, perhaps –: Mr Aragonese, Mr Cambray..., many of you have taken pictures with a character called Otegi as if he were a hero. So don't get so great, because you are actually taking pictures of the intellectual authors of ETA terrorism. Don't tell me you don't, Mr. Republican Left Member. That is indeed the case. You have a relationship of condescension, of kindness, of generosity with ETA terrorism. Therefore, I, as a Member of the People's Party, have, I think, the height of my eyes to come here and say to them: "Listen, no; I explain to you what we wanted to say with this article, this reference by Mr David Mejía in this Parliament, but do not get so great, because I think we have gone from being generous, I also say it to you. Otherwise, when Mr. Salvador Illa, who... now himself is not here, but everyone here... no one escapes that I have a special affection for the Salvador, a special affection for the Lord Illa, a special respect for him. And I share with him many things, also an important part of what is the vision of what must be linguistic coexistence in Catalonia in castle and in català. Now, Mr. Salvador Illa and the members of the PSC, or are you publicly expressing what many of you think in private, that the linguistic immersion system is a linguistic outrage, harms the citizens in Catalonia who in some cases have the castle as their mother tongue and also the catalá, in some areas of Catalonia, and recognize that, effectively, it is a system that needs to be reviewed, and that genuine abuses are being committed with regard to this issue, or we can never make a genuinely assertive public debate, a truly rational public debate on the question of language. It's what they've been asking for a long time. I'm doing a lot more than respect. I don't think I miss respect for anyone. And the only thing he asks is for Catalonia to have a rational debate on the language. And I think that when we talk about what happens in Catalonia, we have to start from that base. Catalonia is, unfortunately, a profound anomaly in democratic terms with regard to the linguistic question. You, nationalists, have lived very happily, unfortunately – and I do not want to reload the inks on the PSC – with the condescension of the Socialist Party of Catalonia. A bilingual society, like Catalan society, has to have in all its institutions, and, above all, in education, a bilingual education, with Spanish and Catalan present, because they are the languages of the majority of Catalans. I hope, Mr Cambray, you dare to respond courageously to some of the things I have put to you. Thank you, Mr. Cambray. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.147.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray, Counsellor of Education.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.148.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... deputy Martin Blanco, brave, all of it. What is obvious is that you and I manage neuronal connections before a very different reality. That's obvious. And, besides, I'm convinced... it's that I resist... it's that I'm not convinced, I'm convinced that he doesn't believe what he said, because he knows that what he's explaining isn't happening in Catalonia. I'm convinced that you – I don't know how to justify yourself, huh? - You know they're lying. I can't hear the story that you just shared with us in this room if you just believed it. In resisting to believe it. Escoltin, lords of Ciutadans, linguistic immersion, model of Catalan school, eighty years... : never, never, never, never no conflict of coexistence, never no problem of coexistence learn català, castella and other languages. The more languages we learn, the better. There's never a problem with living together from the eighties until you show up, because you're the problem. You... [[Voice remorse and applause.]] And as long as yes– and as long as yes. And maybe with the years, they'll come to terms with how sad and sad they feel about politics. You're the problem. You come up with problems of coexistence. Our education system, the Catalan education system, has the student at the centre of all our decisions, always, and always will have it. And for this reason all the efforts of the educational professionals were destined – all the work – to persevere for the welfare of all children and all young people, and to accompany their education. School must be an area of value learning. The coexistence and the good treatment of our educational centres are indisputable, and the good work of the educational community ensures that this is the day to come. I will repeat to you again: there is no linguistic or social conflict with the Catalan education system. And that's exactly why we have always asked to leave school outside of party struggles, we have asked to remove the courts and courts from our classrooms. They're a game that has the only objective, so they've proven it long enough to eliminate the language model of the education system. I, to do it, they don't have scruples. To do so, when they have convinced them, they have publicly designated professional and centres; they have fuelled campaigns against teachers with names and surnames, they have publicly accused them. And even when it was obvious that they were wrong, they didn't withdraw – the president told them a while ago. It is indignant, what they did with Sant Andreu de la Barca. Four years ago you put, with names and surnames, the teacher who did his job. The courts– their courts–, justice– their justice– have told them that they were not right. The spokesman of Sant Andreu de la Barca, the spokesman of Ciutadans, said that they were wrong and that we are not before a case of indoctrination. Please, you may now have the decency to rise again to say: "Excuse me, we were wrong, we were wrong, we were wrong, we were tense together? Excuse me, but that's what they tell us we do, huh? I can also hear Martín Blanco say: "It's what they tell me that you do. I'm told that, as the deputy, to collect this self, I have to strain living together. But he has the courage, the willingness to accept it. Because a few years from now there will be another citizen's spokesman with a little decency, if that's what it is, who will say: "We were wrong, with Canet. It's all right with Canet. [[Some applause.]] And the worst of it all... you know what it is, the worst of it all? The worst thing is that they don't care about children, they don't care about pedagogy. They have no respect for the masters and professionals of this country, who are the ones from each of the country's 5,470 educational centres, with their educational projects of centres and with their linguistic projects, each day educate our children and our young people and guarantee the full extent of their skills in Catalan as well as in Castilian. You, as always, start from the wrong theses and, from here... ; you start from the wrong theses and you go on your way, you go on your way... And every time it's deviating more, obviously, than it actually passes into life. One of these misconceptions is that the Catalan education system is not monolingual. The Catalan educational system has the català and will continue to have the català as the vehicle language, and learn the català and the castle with full competitions, plus other languages. The more languages we learn, I'll say it again, better. And it's an education system, the Catalan education system, the Catalan school model... And that's very important – it's very important –; I know that maybe what I'm going to tell you won't understand it; I know that what I'm going to say to you... He'll say: "But what's that, this counselor, about something that doesn't matter to me? For me, for me, you have a lot of it, which is... social cohesion, equal opportunities and equity. And the Catalan school model guarantees social cohesion, equal opportunities and equity for everyone. Fifteen days ago he was comparing immersion with the Franco dictatorship; now they are comparing it with apartheid. I think they don't have much historical memory and don't know what's behind them. Or they don't have it or they have a lot of shame – I don't know what's worse, two things. Apartheid is the opposite of the Catalan education system. The Catalan education system has never separated and will never separate – put me 'in an example –..., has never separated and will never separate a child, a young child, because of language, race or gender. And always, always, always – said the very honorable president today, I also said it when I intervened – we will always condemn any attitude of threat, violence and discrimination. Mirin, here is the only supremacism there is the linguistic supremacism of Spanish nationalism. And that's not what we say, said Juan Carlos Moreno Cabrera, who is a professor of linguistics at the Autonomous University of Madrid. You, who hold us as dictators and assessors to defend a model of school in Catalan that educates our infants in three languages and that has as its vehicle the country's own language... when in reality what you defend is a supremacy of one of these languages. And that, Members of the City, we will not allow. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.149.0	For the reply, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.150.0	Look, Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray, the case of the spokesman for Citizens of Sant Andreu de la Barca, with whom you rub your hands, is a paradigmatic case of fear, it is a paradigmatic case of coercion, it is a paradigmatic case of the extent to which the coercive and coercive mechanisms of a Catalan society gangrene by nationalism work. I'm going to tell you so clearly. I do not know our councillor of Sant Andreu de la Barca, but I can come to understand the excesses of prudence produced by the coercion, fear and coercion of a system that points as a traitor and enemy of Catalonia to anyone who does not accept the dogmas of linguistic nationalism. But if Loquillo, if Loquillo himself, when he made statements in his day at RAC1 that were absolutely obvious, paradigmatic and pointed out the horror of what is a society impregnated with nationalism, a few days he had to retract himself, how will not a poor governor of Sant Andreu de la Barca who is subjected to enormous pressure? What Albert Rivera said about Andreu de la Barca's teachers I am convinced that it is absolutely true. Seeing what Mrs Borràs says, seeing what you say, Mr Cambray, what Mr Aragonès says, what the deputies of the separatist bench say about the Civil Guard and the National Police, does anyone really believe that any teacher or that some teachers of a public institute in Catalonia may not have done what the parents said, the parents whose children, of the Civil Guard, had been subjected to this alleged discrimination? Of course – of course – we will respect the decisions of the judges, always, but, really, do not get so great, that you are all day criminalizing the National Police, the Civil Guard..., that there is a deputy of your party that in the Congress of Deputies has said that the National Police and the Civil Guard disgusts you. But, hey, who are you trying to fool? Stop fooling the citizens of Catalonia, who are you xenophobic, supremacist, anti-Spanish, Hispanic, and do not stop insulting the Civil Guard, the National Police and any Catalan who does not agree with your crazy vision of Catalan reality. So... Look, Mrs Borràs, in an interview yesterday, without any problem, spoke of the Catalans who defend a bilingual system, of the Catalans who have Spanish as their mother tongue. By the way, Catalans with nicknames such as Mrs Borràs, others with surnames coming from other parts of Spain, but who, with absolute normality, have Spanish as their mother tongue. Do you know what Mrs Borràs calls them or what Mrs Borràs calls those Catalans? « Castellanos, because we cannot be Catalans, for her. It excludes us from Catalanism, excludes us from our status as Catalans because it is not Catalan speaking, because it does not share its absolutely identity vision, that regressive ethos, which you defend, which in the Europe of the twenty-first century has no place in the world and which is pure regressive and supremacist linguistic nationalism. That's what you are, simply. Therefore, to me, truly, to be so dignified, Mr Cambray, and to say to me: "No, it is now that what happened in IES Palau is false and you have to recognize it... No, listen, we respect the judicial decisions, but of course, what happened during those days in Catalonia in many respects and what continues to happen to you when, by the way, a judicial decision – I tell you, it happened four days ago – shows that you have discriminated against national police and civil guards for being national police and civil guards in the distribution of the vaccine... Hey, do you think something more abject, something more perverse, something more nauseous than discriminating against citizens for being police? By the way, it is even more perverse, because it is precisely those bodies and security forces of the State that have been watching over the security of all of you, regardless of your ideology and regardless of your provenance, race and ideological orientation. Really, it's that the problem you have is that you've got a part of Catalan society that doesn't listen to what's really in Catalonia. In Catalonia there is a system of linguistic exclusion of Spanish, of monolingualism; that you, moreover, boast that this is so, boast that the Spanish is not a language to be used. And Mrs. Borràs compares the Spanish to the Amazic. It's an argument I've been hearing all my life: "No, man, yes, the castle is very important, as is the English and the Urdu and the Amazic. Do you believe that that offense, that that insult to the Catalans that we have as our mother tongue, is reasonable? Do you not see that you are creating an antipathy to the Catalan language itself in many citizens of Catalonia? Don't you see that many Catalans who are perfectly bilingual and who love to speak Catalan and Spanish are beginning to think that their attitude towards Catalan is deeply damaging to the Catalan language? Indeed, they abandon their identityist approaches, abandon their recalcitrant linguistic nationalism, and perhaps in Catalonia things are starting to get a little better. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.151.0	There's a word from the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.152.0	Thank you, President. Perhaps you should also take the word, because it meant more to you than to me, almost as a Member. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They like to tell us things and words. F-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f-f... We're going back to say it, we don't separate anyone for a reason, and we don't separate anyone because of their surnames. Because it's not the first time I've said it: it's just like the last names you have... that brings people; I'd just miss them. In Catalonia, everyone has always been welcome: land of collide. He's always been welcome, come from where he's coming, talk about what he's talking about. They've been lying to each other. It's not my place, but it was part of the government at that time, and I can tell you that she's lying, that she's discriminated against with the National Police cows; she's another one of the lies. I'd better explain the Vergés Dawn or the Argimon advisor. And then... I end up with two ideas; I end up with two ideas, because I think I could already... I could repeat what I told them, but I end up with two ideas. You, lords of Ciutadans, will not be able to modify the model of Catalan school as you intend to do, for the back door, from the courts and without any pedagogical criteria. They talked about apartheid these days, compared the Catalan education system to apartheid. So I end up with Nelson Mandela. Nelson Mandela said... he said education is the most powerful weapon to change the world. And we believe, from the government, that education is the most powerful weapon to advance Catalonia, the most democratic Catalonia every day, more social, more green, more feminist and in Catalan. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.153.0	Let's get to the top of the order of the day. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the compliment of the Supreme Court's judgment in the matter of language policy to educational centres]] [[302-00067/13]] The motion following the question to the Government on the compliment of the Supreme Court's judgment in the matter of language policy to the educational centres; presented for the Mixt Group. She has the word, to give her the presentation, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.154.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good morning. Good morning too, Counsellor Gonzàlez. Well, I a few days ago, when I raised this question that gives rise to the motion that we discussed today, I could not even imagine everything that was going to happen; only because some parents have asked the Generalitat to guarantee the rights of their son. I believe that the moral lowness in which some have fallen these days is indescribable. And yes, among those there are also members of the Government, Mr. Counsellor. For example, the Spokeswoman of the Government, Mrs. Plaja, who pointed to the family at a press conference; Patrícia Gomà, secretary-general of the department, who encouraged families and also the centre's management not to attend to the precautionary measures dictated by the court; and yourself, Mr. Gonzàlez, who supported and supported those families who created a group of WhatsApp to harass this child's family in Canet de Mar. You went to Canet de Mar and, instead of going to protect that child and give quiet to that family, you went to give shelter to the stalkers. You, with your attitude, have encouraged a campaign of harassment through social networks, also through the media and even face-to-face with a demonstration in Canet in which you shouted « Terra Lliure – Terra Lliure, Mr. Counsellor –, which are slogans in favour of a terrorist group. Then they are shocked by what things they are told, but it is that, of course, Terra Lliure in the manifestation. I don't know if you're proud or you're gonna condemn him. Look, you guys have been paying for the land for a long time. That of a people's sun which is so much used, therefore, I believe it is nothing more than a wish expressed in a loud voice to standardise Catalan society. But, of course, in that plan, the Catalans that we do not communicate with their ideas remain. So, you intend to turn us into foreigners in our own land. We are told that we are not the people of Catalonia. Mrs. Borràs tells us... she calls us "castellanos, so we're not from here. Mr Donaire calls us ‘unsuitable settlers'. Mr Donaire, who was a candidate on the Junts per Catalunya lists in the last elections. And not content with not even considering us Catalans, you also use your supposed humor programs to draw a xenophobic and supremacist portrait of those we speak in Spanish or of those who, therefore, came from other parts of Spain here to Catalonia. And so, for example, we have Mag Lari, who says he speaks Spanish because it looks worse, or, for example, the cute little Bricoheros, who say they have trained dogs that smell Spanish to avoid theft. Do you really not see how disgusting all this results, honestly? You will not be able to convert Spanish into a foreign language, nor will you be able to alienate at least half the Catalans. The 'a populous sun exists only in the sectarian head of some, because Catalonia is a plural land, it is a diverse land, it does not have one or two, no, it has three official languages and, moreover, where the Spanish is the majority mother tongue. You're trying to use Canet's case to scare the rest of the families, and no one dares to take the opposite of them if they don't commulate..., and commulate with their mantras. I think it's a navigational alert. But, look, I'm going to give you another: we're here and we're going to plant face. Because here we are talking about a question of rights and rights that affect our children, and I think that is the most sacred thing there is, Mr Gonzàlez. This disgusting campaign today is harassment, but tomorrow it will be poverty, because your evil so-called ‘linguistic immersion' is not good for anyone, Mr Gonzàlez. It is not immersion for students who already have Catalan as their mother tongue and it is not immersion for Spanish speakers, who are imposed on a single language, thus going against the pedagogical criteria that UNESCO marks in a multitude of studies. Here you are not asking to move to a system only in Spanish, which is what you have now, precisely, but on the contrary with Catalan. Here what we ask is simply a twenty-five per cent, at least, of the Spanish language, which is one more subject, Mr Gonzàlez, only one; all the others are still in Catalan. Where is the problem? We call on our children and young people to have an educational system that guarantees their rights, but also to give them opportunities to be competitive tomorrow. Do you know what the situation is in Catalonia? Well, if you have money, you can pay for a trilingual school and, if you don't, you have to settle for a school in Catalan alone. Colau said: "If you want to study Spanish, go and pay for it. That's not the best thing for our kids. This system, as much as you repeat that it is successful, is obsolete, obsolete and harmful. Why? First, because it is more than forty years old; second, because it goes against the pedagogical criteria that UNESCO marks; third, because no one else in the world applies it; fourth, because it goes against social cohesion – there is nothing more to see than what has happened these days – and, five, because the results, moreover, are that they speak for themselves: almost an eighteen_per_cent drop-out, Mr. Gonzàlez. This can't be good anywhere. So, please, do me a favor and comply with the court rulings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.155.0	Then, he has the word, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.156.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, we are here again talking about language, discussing the language model at the schools; now, because a court, in this case the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, has issued a judgment that, when it is communicated, will force a significant change in the current language model for the conjunction of the system. We have been pleased to keep this debate in a different context, perhaps because some of the later governments have considered it appropriate or necessary to revise the model with data at hand, update it in the light of changes in society or deepen it, listen to the opinions of one or the other in order to seek to politically refer the existing consensus for what it does to language in its day and strengthen it socially. On the other hand, what we have understood over the past few years on the part of the last governments until today is entrenchment, is the willingness not to talk to us too much, not just those who originally forged this initial consensus, not touching anything. And we continue to hear this: "The school is not touched. When, in change, reality has changed a lot since the 1980s. They've changed, and a lot, the audio-visual consumption patterns are breaking out of digital transformation. We have had intense processes of arrival of new people, speaking of different languages and bearers of different cultures. And it has changed, and quite, sadly, the perception of the català of that language of prestige that associated itself with a better of the job opportunities, a tool of social promotion and, at the same time, of cohesion that we have so much defended from the PSC and that they called the Castilian families speaking for their children to the schools. We've seen, in the past few years, some formations deserve to get politically close to the language. Expressions, like the Koiné manifesto, we were talking about bilingualism as linguistic abnormality. And they are expressions like these and many others of rebuying in the castle, mother tongue of many Catalans, which have made many people come to see in the català a political connotation that has weakened it, that has made it appear as an unusual language and sometimes even imposed. Language as an exclusion element: the worst that can pass it to a language. More far than the PSC would want, which we have worked from the beginning for a communal school – which owes to Marta Mata, to Pepe González – the same for everyone, who is not separated by language or origin; a cohesive school, further defended by the educational community still today, which must transmit knowledge and esteem for languages, respect for all. This communal school has worked. It has worked for many years, in the sense that it has been guaranteed that all children learn Catalan and Castilian at school, that it has guaranteed a real bilingual domain at the end of compulsory education – the Catalan, the Castilian, the Orange Occupy to the Aran –, despite the intentions of independent nationalist governments to rake the Castilian, and other attempts, such as that of Minister Wert on his day and the Government of the PP, to encourage Catalan children; despite the educational law imposed by the People's Party on the conjunction of the educational community, the LOMCE, which planted, among others, funding with public money the schooling of families at private centres where the castle has been used as a vehicle, the Court of Cassation has ruled otherwise ruled that the House should be deprived of its powers. And what we're asking from the PSC is to stop politicizing the language, stop politicizing the school. We have lived with the People's Party, we have lived again, 2017, at the height of the independence process, which has left it all behind; it has also weakened the previously existing consensus. And what we're saying is, let's get to work for coexistence, for society's schools, with dialogue and willful consent. They think that those who speak do so in representation of a group with more than ninety mayors and mayors, many governors; we also govern a very important part of the country. Please note that we are interested in contributing to the coexistence and non-politicization of schools and languages. Does anyone else care if I don't fight the political language? , don't make it serve to draw 'electoral revenue, to lengthen the conflict of the schools? And, in change, yes, does anyone care about improving the education system? , the language skills of the alumni? So if that's it, let's go on and do it all, from the UPC to the People's Party. I am convinced that there is much room for improvement in the language model. We grow the oral skills of the languages that learn, of all. We accompany and advise the direct teams at the time of making their projects, review them. We make a bet for English or a third language to the education system to ensure equal opportunities in a globalized world. We also comply with the judgment, which does not mean the end of Catalan in school, means adding a Spanish subject in addition to the Spanish language, which many centres, by the way, already do. And let us also preserve the pedagogical criterion, the autonomy of center, to adapt linguistic projects to the sociolinguistic reality of each territory and environment to work with flexibility and compensation. This is very important. We believe that there is scope for consensus, to refer it, to strengthen it, to update it and to improve it. Take this opportunity. Don't take it any worse. If we estimate the languages, let's move on and on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.157.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, in the first place, the deputy Mr Sergio Macián, of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.158.0	Thank you, President. Well, I also want to start with... Mr. Counsellor, I also want to start by referring to what has happened these days in Canet de Mar, which has shown with all its cruelty the true face of the most rabid, sectarian and Hispanic separatism, the most fascist face of Catalan linguistic nationalism. The Government and the separatist parties, Esquerra, Junts and the CUP, have done the greatest institutional bullying exercise to a five-year-old child, to the point that the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has had to ask for protection for the boy and that his privacy is guaranteed. The Education Advisor himself, Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray, visited on December 9 Canet de Mar, but not to sympathize with the assaulted family and support the legality, which we understand was what was expected, but to protest the ruling of the TSJ, to encourage the harassment of the minor and to give wings to the aggressors. Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray wanted to turn Canet de Mar into Canet of evil and almost got it, because in the afternoon the terrorist group Terra Lliure was being chanted and jailed. The messages that have been launched from the separatist environment have been nauseating. I do not want to stop mentioning two particularly serious ones – they have already come out today throughout the previous speeches. The tweet of a separatist mosso, a professional hater, candidate thirty-nine of the Junts per Cat lists in Barcelona, on the list of Mrs Laura Borràs, who says textually: "This child has to find himself absolutely alone in class. In the hours that are done in Spanish the other children should leave. And another tweet from a former UAB professor, Mr. Jaume Fàbrega, who says: "I intend to stone this child's house. Let them go out of Catalonia. I, of course, do not think of any better examples to explain what the criminal type of hatred provided for in article 510 of the Criminal Code is. Mr Cambray, says that there is no problem with the language in Catalan classrooms. And then, what is this, Mr. Gonzàlez-Cambray? This deer hate. If the separatists and their subsidized means did not point out and harass the children, thousands of families would ask for bilingual education, which is not a teaching of the Castilian, it is also a teaching in Castilian. The child of Canet is not the only one who asks it, it is of the few who have the courage to do so, because, in front of you, claiming a right is not a normal act in democracy, but an act of heroism. And all this harassment, all this hatred, all this inhuman harassment of a child, why? For simply by asking what they are entitled to as established by the TSJ of Catalonia: that when there are two co-official languages the teaching must be given in a way that is at least twenty-five_per_cent for each of them. And this, which is a minimum of pure common sense, which is that in a bilingual society teaching is also bilingual, separatism does not tolerate it. And it does not tolerate it, because, tolerating the substance, the linguistic debate in Catalonia does not go by language, it goes by identity: with the excuse of defending the Catalan what they seek is to raise walls of separation with the rest of Spain. Immersion is an identity project that has never sought to make children equally take the two languages from the emotional point of view. Immersion has never been a path to real bilingualism, immersion has been a path to the exclusion of the Castilian from teaching. And worst of all: that your linguistic immersion is illegal. When you explain the model of immersion is the legal model in Catalonia, lie, is false. Neither the Constitution nor the Statute nor the Law of Linguistic Policy protect, at any time refer to the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, because it would be manifestly unconstitutional. The ruling of the Statue has already clearly picked it up and the TSJ only repeats, that remembering it, does not create anything ex novo. This is why it is imperative from the constitutional model of bilingualism that both languages have the status of vehicle and learning. They therefore comply with the Constitution at once and comply with court judgements. Immersion is neither a guarantee of cohesion nor a model of success, it is an exclusion model, it is a model of school failure and it is a model of poor knowledge of Spanish. And proof of that is that many separatist leaders take their children to private trilingual schools because they do not want for themselves the monolingualism they intend to impose on others. Since VOX, we will always denounce this situation which we have unfortunately arrived at by the shameful surrender of successive governments of the PP and PSOE nation to the separatists and, above all, by the complicit attitude of the PSC, which has always been a supporter of this infamous system of linguistic immersion. We are not going to do either as the PSOE or as the defender of the people, Mr.Gabilondo, who these days has blatantly looked elsewhere at the harassment of Canet's child, because we are all Canet's family. Finally, I am announcing that we are going to vote in favour of this motion from the PP which reflects the literality of the ruling of the TSJ, but from VOX we do not settle with ridiculous percentages or quotas of Spanish and we will fight tirelessly until we guarantee in Catalonia full educational freedom and the right to bilingual education, until we achieve something as simple as that any Spanish can study in Spanish in any part of the national territory and, therefore, also in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.159.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the words of Mrs Dolors Sabater's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.160.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Well, here we have a People's Party motion in which it seems that you, the PP's, are concerned about education..., and you do well to worry about it, because what you have shown these days with the statements of your leaders and yourself here in plenary is lack of education and lack of knowledge in history, because either you are completely ignorant of many historical events that are taking place, or what you are doing is lying directly, and lying on some issues that are in the fringe of committing hate crimes. The past dissipation was Mr. Pablo Casado who accused the government and all Catalans of linguistic apartheid, referring to the case of the School of Drac Turus, of Canet de Mar. Then she was the vice president... the vice secretary of organization, Mrs. Ana Beltrán. And today we heard it from you, Mrs Roldán, and Mr Fernández has joined the circus. You... really, how far are you willing to promote the feroted catalanophobia? How do you justify this banalization of uplifting facts, of the most serious historical atrocities, to put hell in the fire, to go against a system that is a conquest of the working class, which is a guarantee of social cohesion such as linguistic immersion? And that you, one of two: either you are ignorant – is to say, you are unaware of reality – or you are lying, and in this lie you either want to devalue the meaning of apartheid and Nazism, or you want to explicitly hate Catalan language. Why don't you tell me that it's not wrong to make a denial campaign... that, by the way, if you're in Germany, there the German Criminal Code establishes that minimizing, denying or approving acts committed during Nazi Germany is a crime. And what you're doing practically in these acts is negating in this comparative, or what you're doing is converting the protection of Catalan language and the territorial right that we have the Catalan Countries to use and protect that language..., you're turning it into an object of mockery and hatefulness against language. So, if the alternative is that you don't know, only the record – it's already been here on different occasions – that there are more than 6_million people exterminated by the Holocaust; that the exploitation and extermination camps with the gas camels are just some of the indicators of the genocidal terror regime that was practiced, or reminding them that the apartheid regime South Africa, a system that was tough in South Africa and Namibia until 1992, did not only physically separate people by race, but also denied the right to vote to African people with obvious white supremacy. So, really, if you're talking about segregation, exactly if one thing is pretended and achieved linguistic immersion, the Catalan school model, it's precisely not separating the student for spoken languages. Just this methodology, this system, what it does is not mark the student according to its familiar language, but put in value all the initial languages and give access to the catal and castle in multi-lingual living environment where the vehicle language is Catalan, because it is the one that protects for its minority, and because it is the territorially unique language. And because – and you know very well – in the current circumstances of linguistic neoliberalism, where the market is absolutely dominated by imperial languages, minority languages and the rights of its speakers are object of protection. I have said the European Charter of Languages, we have approved it with the sovereignty of this Parliament with majority consent, which you are now prepared to destroy in an electoral race that leads you to say authentic barbarity. If you really want to protect rights, defend that there is the català, that we can have immersion in català also to society. Why don't they defend that, instead of a three-per-cent Catalan cinema in front of a noranta-per-cent castle, we also have equal rights to access the cinema? We will, of course, vote against this young man. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.161.0	Thank you. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Marc Parés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.162.0	Thank you, President. Well, it's hard to discuss this issue when it's clear that you, the arguments, are absolutely the same, because what you're doing is competing with VOX and Citizens for a report based on the prefiguration of a problem that doesn't exist socially. And so, what they're doing is feeding the confrontation in the si of a society, so, that brings decades living together thanks to the model, that of linguistic immersion, that it was promoted and defended, not for Catalan nationalism, that did not initially want it, but for the Spanish speaking families of the popular classes, that they were the ones who originally defended the model of linguistic immersion. However, it is of little use, at the time of discussion with you, to have the evidence, therefore, that the model of linguistic immersion produces as a result the learning of all two languages. In the debate with you, one more time, as in the past fifteen years, the percentage of Catalans and Catalans who use the Catalan language as usual has gone from forty-sis to thirty-sis_per_cent; it is to say, it has fallen by two points the percentage of people who usually use the Catalan language. In fact, this is an evidence that what makes manifest is that the model of linguistic immersion, which has been a model of success and which has fostered the cohesion and learning of all two languages, is an insufficient model at the time of guaranteeing the social use of the catalá. This fact, which, in fact, is irrefutable and which you know perfectly well..., but the question is that it is the same, because you care very little that the català is a minority language, they are absolutely the same. Because the question of background is that you defend your positions and make proposals like those of this place from a position of domination, from the position of the dominant language, and from the position of power and its alliance with the courts to impose on political and social consensus. They are the same as the pedagogical arguments, they are the same as the socio-linguistic arguments, and they are the same as the statutory framework, because you do not stop repeating the co-officiality of the two languages, but always forget Article 6 of the Statute, which says that Catalonia's own language is the Catalan language, and the language itself is the language that we would normally have to use in our institutions, also in school. And as data and evidence and arguments to you are absolutely the same and do not serve them, so well, I will explain my personal experience and, therefore, my personal situation, so we understand what we are talking about. Mirin, my daughter is eleven years old, she saw Vic, her last name is Sanchez. Your parents are Catalan speakers, your opinions, all of them, are Catalan speakers, just like your tits, your cousins... everyone in the family. She speaks in Catalan with her schoolmates and schoolmates, with all of them, as well as with her non-schoolers. Well, it turns out that since a while ago, and every day more often, my daughter, when she talks to me, so much as she uses expressions in the castle, which her Germans who are eight and two years old never did. And why? So because a language is taught in its social use, and today the social use of language is basically, or partly, it's on the internet, it's on digital plataforms, it's on social networks. And here, as on TV, as on radio, as on cinema, as on literature, català is a minority language, and the castle is not. And this is the reality that we have, and not the reality that you want us to believe. Certainly, my daughter – as we speak of her; today I have decided to speak of her in this Ple – speaks perfectly the English, because she was lucky enough to live one year in New York, a city where the Hispanic community is almost beyond the white community, all two around thirty_per_cent, followed by the black community, with twenty_per_cent, and followed by the Asian community with fifteen_per_cent. In New York City, in fact, only 64 percent of the population has English as their mother tongue, but everyone understands that it is the language that unites them and everyone wants their children in school to be educated in English, because it is the language that guarantees them equal opportunities. And, of course, from the discrepancy with the migration laws that may be held in the United States, obviously, but New York is a city configured from migrations, and built from social struggles and respect for diversity and minority rights. And this, believe me, has enormous effects on the sense of belonging of that community: to be part of a whole, because this whole thing is recognized from the sum of plurality. I think we should take this concept as a reference at the time of speaking of country or at the time of speaking of birth. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.163.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.164.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Let us continue with the debate on language and it seemed very interesting to me the intervention of Mr Parés, because it also allows me to take up the debate on, let us say, the preferences that from the political point of view we consider should be reasonable in our public debate, also according to our personal situation. From this point of view, I am interested in what you said, Mark, what Mr. Parés was commenting on the life of his children. For me, the linguistic question is very important; among other things, because I have three children born, born in Catalonia and who feel their two main languages of the citizens of Catalonia, the català and the castella. It's something that's fun for me. As Spanish speaking seems, I want my children to have a balanced life of their catalanity and of their Spanisholity and to have a balanced life, also of their condition of essentially bilingual people. Because the català and the castle are the first languages of the citizens of Catalonia and I want my children, from a familiar point of view, to think that this is one thing..., it is a richness and, moreover, it forms part of its essence or, if the term is wanted, of its identity. That's why I'm so worried about the exclusion of the castle from Catalan classrooms as the vehicle language. That's why I'm so worried about the idea of presenting the castle as a foreign language, as an alien language to Catalan reality, because it's the mother tongue of my children and I want my children to have a balanced, reasonable, even emotional experience of their mother tongue and also of the other language that we have the Catalans, which is the Catalan language. It's something I'm absolutely clear about. At home, therefore, as Castilian speakers, we also say many things in Catalan. We have a part of the family that is Catalan speaking and my children have an absolute conviction that their two languages are Catalan and Castle. I'm sorry that there are couples – that's not your case, Marc, and I know – that it's not that you don't like them, but that they hate the fact that their children may have some interference from the other language; both Catalan speaking and Spanish speaking couples. For me, it's totally the opposite, it's the richness of the esteem of all two languages that makes my children have this vision so inclusive of the two languages that they represent Catalan society. And it's one thing that I, like the bearer of Ciutadans, will always defend and in my private life is something that I have very clear; in my social life, in my family life and in my way of assuming Catalan reality. I think it's something that's even my advice or my humble recommendation to the assembly of the deputies of this chamber. I think it's the best way to have a truly balanced life in Catalonia. That's why I think, Marc and the rest of the Members, that the fact of introducing a twenty-and-five-per-cent of the teaching hours in the castle – is to say, a more in-castellan assignment – it's not only not a harm to our Spanish-speaking or Catalan-speaking children, but it's a very good way to get a cultural and emotional education also in the other Catalan language. I have clarity – and for my personal experience I can also say this – that a person who grows and educates himself in a system with such an unbalanced presence at all two languages, if the language..., whatever his mother tongue is, if the language that is not the mother's is not taught in terms of emotionality, in terms of affection, in terms of integration as the language itself, that language will not learn it with ease. And I say that with all conviction and with all knowledge of cause. If you tell a child, to a part of society, that the Spanish language is alien to Catalonia, it's foreign, it's imposed – and these things, not fool us, are often said to Catalonia –, and that's something that..., I don't think I'm inventing anything, it's very common; if this is passed on to a generation of children, what will be done is that these children have real difficulties in taking on the Spanish language as their own. I want, for my Spanish-speaking children of the family, to entominate and to have the català as a language as close as the Castilian. Why? Among other things, because it's the language on one side of his family, but also because it's the language of his fellow citizens. And this attitude, which is my attitude and that of my group, that of the Ciutadans Group, towards the other Catalan language, in this case the Catalan, I would also like to see the attitude of the stand of the separatist parties towards the Spanish language. It is something that will always be one of my political objectives and it is a battle that I will always give from respect and recognition, precisely from pluralism, from essential bilingualism that characterizes Catalan society. Some do not want to hear it, because they have a nationalist conception of Catalan reality. It's not your case, Marc, I'm insisting, but I liked that you're talking about your daughter and I'm talking about mine right now, that I think that also, let's say, are visions a little different, but coincidental in the will not to lose sight of the two languages of the Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.165.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word Mr Pep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.166.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Nieves Calomarde was born in a village of Albacete. At twenty-three years, she settled with her husband in Santa Coloma de Gramenet. Here his three sons were born. « I encouraged them to speak in Catalan. I was delighted to listen to them, says the Snows, who had targeted the parish for Catalan courses. Dolores Sánchez, in the eighty-five years continues to struggle for the rights of all to the bars of Ciutat Cooperativa de Sant Boi de Llobregat. He arrived in Catalonia in 1962. Claim the convenience of adapting to the place where you end up living. "It doesn't mean losing your temper," he says. Asks all parties to leave the schools alone and reminds them that the current immersion model allows everyone to learn the two languages. Juan Sánchez, seventy-one years old, from Montcada and Reixac. He arrived in Catalonia twelve years old, with his parents and three more Germans. He did a català course, but he didn't know enough to teach his two girls, who taught him at school. "I was the proudest father in the world when I watched my daughters replying in Catalan to the master," she says. They are real witnesses, they are not invented; in some of a report to El Punt Avui, by the journalist Sara Muñoz, entitled "The godfathers of immersion. They are testimonies that are part of the reality that tells us that eighty percent of Catalans are strongly in favour of the Catalan school immersion system. A question that also tells us that only among the voters of Ciutadans, the PP and VOX, are most contrary to immersion. This is not the case with the PSC. This reality does not prevent us from feeling the things that we have heard here today and that we feel persistently for the thousand altarpieces of Catalanophobia. Now play Canet de Mar. With a historical perspective, they are acting as the worthy heretics of those who during centuries have pursued the Catalan language; coordinated, cadascú in their paper, politics, jutges, the media Brunette of the Count-Duke of Olivares to Franco, now with the judicial system. A judicial system that modifies the laws approved in this Parliament by a majority of the majority. We know that no Spanish government law nor any Spanish court judgment will ever favor the Catalan. It would still be pure propaganda, a speech face to face, facing Spain – if lime, facing the sun – if not because it went seriously. They started with the decapitation of the process leaders, and now they continue to hit the pillars of the nation: the language and the school. It's about identifying language and immersion with independence, purely to criminalize. It's just like the immersion that was born when independence was witnessal, and that was born at the Rosselló-Pòrcel School, among others, of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, from the hands of people like those of the witnesses that I mentioned at the beginning. They are the same as the comparison, the data, the ones that support the immersion, because they show that the levels of catal and castle of the students are almost identical, and similar to that of English, certainly. And that's all they do from the language that in the last thirty years has won a seventy_per_cent of speakers, which means 240_million more, to reach the current 591_million Spanish-speaking speakers. From this heel, the bell that says that the castle is extinct and that it is the fault of the català and, more concretely, the fault of independence is renewed. They never invent anything, but they just invent the reverse supremacism. I could go on, but it's biting cold iron. I prefer to end up addressing the compañeros in favor of independence. First, to tell us "more immersion and strict compliment of the laws we have. And finally, with a message, which is a quote from a book of 1985, but fully in force, unfortunately, titled The Political Persecution of the Catalan Language, by Francesc Ferrer. "There is no people who have given evidence of such resistance before such a fierce attitude. They have everything: the laws, the belical and the psychological weapons, the means of communication, the dismissal and the imprisonment, the judgments and the functioning, sometimes even the bishops, and always the military. But the Catalan people have not clauded. We can still write our story, because we have not yet been defeated. Write it down? We have the mandate, it's October 1st and October 27th, it's independence. Do we have a date? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.167.0	Thank you. I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Irene Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.168.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. The judgment of the High Court of Justice and the decision of the Supreme involved a new attack on the linguistic model of our education system; a model that is built on the basis of a broad social, political and pedagogical consensus. Since the law of linguistic normalization was passed in 1983, the language of reference of the schools of our country has been the català, and thus reflected in the various norms of self-government, education or linguistic scope that have been promoted and approved by the Parliament of Catalonia with a broad consensus. Our model is that of the law of education of Catalonia, the LEC; a law that counts with a broad social consensus and which is collected in a vast majority of parliament. A model of school where the català has been and is a tool of speech, equality of opportunity, equity and social cohesion for all the students. The Catalan school acts as an integrative element, also of use for the new population, offering a specific and unique follow-up that facilitates the incorporation of the studentship into the Catalan education system. The Catalan language model guarantees – it guarantees –, in finalizing the compulsory stage, to the entire student the domain of the Catalan and the castle, as they demonstrate the results of the tests of basic skills that the Department of Education annually elaborates. And this, moreover, is produced in a social context in which the Catalan school is already talking more about two-hundred languages. As the educational evidence says, language learning is not a percentage, and less so at a time of educational transformation and pedagogical transformation when most centres have already abandoned and base their learning beyond the classrooms. But of course, as we can ask these courts to apply pedagogical criteria if this does not count in place. That it is a judgment that arbitrarily dictates the percentage of hours to be applied in order to learn a language is an anomaly and represents a decrease for all professionals of education. We cannot allow any courts or courts to decide how to teach. And it's clear that we always defend him. We're always defending the català, and, more importantly, we're going to do everything we can and everything. A total of eighty complaints have been rejected since 2005, in a system where students have attended 1_million_i_mig. And that's what you can't even, even the social conflict that you invent doesn't hold on to. And besides, I'll tell you who sees them and who sees them. In the year 96, the Popular Party's address to Catalonia considered an act of provocation to the direction that a deputy of his intervened in the castle in this same hemisphere. A few months ago, the leader of his party had a major mental confusion and even more demonstrated an important and total and absolute ignorance of the linguistic reality of the Catalan Countries, confounding language with dialects. And this past week they're talking about linguistic apartheid and totalitarian rule, for the Canet case, comparing it with Nazi Germany. That's why you're saying indecency, Congresswoman; that's an indecency. [[Greetings.]] Catalonia has already overcome the linguistic humiliation of Francoism by safeguarding social cohesion, and you are going to compare Catalonia with a criminal regime, attacking the teaching model. You do not go through a stage of internal reflection, no, we doubt even that you feel comfortable with these speeches, what you do is buy a speech from the extreme Catalan anti-Catalanist right to win a bunch of votes with electoral interest. Politically patrimony the language, leave the cohesion that the català generates at school and use the courts for what they cannot get at the polls. Allow me to end with an uncertain phrase by Ovidi Montllor: "There are people who do not like to be spoken, written, or thought of català; they are the same people who do not like to be spoken, written or thought of. We find this party in the streets, with Som Escola, to defend that the català is not playing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.169.0	To pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy lady Lorraine Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.170.0	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Congresswoman of Republican Left: that you dare to talk to me about indecency... Indecency is what you have done with this five-year-old – that's what is indecent – calling for demonstrations to the cry of « Terra Lliure in the people of these parents. That's what's indecent – that's what's indecent. And we've all seen it. It is indecent to go to Canet to support the stalkers, instead of supporting this family and protecting that child. That's indecent, honestly. And today the debate here is not going to comply or not comply with the sentences. Because we Democrats don't debate whether or not we serve sentences, we do. And we should not have reached a judicial decision if you had already complied from the very beginning with the law and the Constitution, and also with your own education law. But of course, you, that's not..., because you like to impose your monolingual system more, which, I insist, as much as you repeat that it is a model of success, it is not, and I refer to the tests. Mr. Parés said that we don't give data, that we lack evidence. Well, I give you the evidence: eighteen_per_cent of school failure– eighteen_per_cent; above the average of Spain, which is already bad compared to the European average– ; many thousands of UNESCO articles that recommend as a pedagogical criterion to educate in the mother tongue, which in Catalonia is the Spanish language. Data. But of course, why are we going to read the UNESCO articles if you can explain your personal history? That's the data you offer me, which asks for evidence. Then, also, on the other hand, Mrs Sabater, who warns me about the commission of possible hate crimes. You, who call us settlers, who call us misfits, who call us fairies, who call for apartheid, you who applaud when you burn a police van with an agent inside, will you give me lessons in hate crimes, Mrs Sabater? It's just, what to hear! What is to be heard, gentlemen of the UPC! It's all right – it's all right. And stop lying. I repeat: these are the data, the data of the basic competences and the data of selectivity. According to their data, Catalan, Spanish, Catalan and English children have the same level. But it turns out we have four years of extension because no one can believe the B2 level. It is a real shame what you have come here to do today, and, above all, what you are doing with this family in Canet and with all those who dare to take it against you. I'm telling you, we're going to plant face and we're not going to swallow or go through the ring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.171.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, once the item 17 on the order of the day has been substantiated. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the school model and linguistic immersion]] [[302-00070/13]] And let's get to the 14th point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the government about the school model and the linguistic immersion. It was presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win, and to expose it has the word of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.172.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, we said that this morning at the control session: we have three problems, among others. One, the retroces in the social use of the català. It's evidence; all the data so indicate. And, therefore, this tells us, in a very clear way – and I am especially referring to the Socialist Party –: linguistic normalization is far from being relaxed. The objective that the Catalan language is a common and shared language for all the linguistic communities of this country is far from being settled. This backtrack of social use has also occurred at school, from a long time ago, and all the data indicate it. A second problem: the continuing attacks of the right and the extreme right, means that with the complicity of various institutions of the State and the regime, which have mainly two objectives. One, try to hit the back of the català. And, secondly, trying to generate a social fracture and an identity conflict in our country because of language. But to this second problem and to the first one we must add a third: we see the shortcomings and neglects in the application of linguistic immersion, in the defense of the school in catalá of the succeeding governments of the Generalitat – all: Convergence and Union, Juntes per el Si and Esquerra Republicana –, which have complied, all without exception, with the almost eighty sentences that imposed castella quotas on the schools. And we give it to everyone who is finished and who has finished this continuing resignation from the sovereignty of our Parliament and our rightful collectivities. In this context – in this context – if we agree with this diagnosis, immersion is more necessary than ever. It is not the problem, the immersion, the lords and lords of the Socialist Party, the problem is its non-application or its insufficient application. The solution is not a little less Catalan; the problem is to apply it properly to all schools in our country without exception. And I say so, because in a context of retreats from the social use of català and the school use of català, revisionist positions become reactionary positions. Obviously, also, the right, the extreme right tries to fuel an identity conflict, as I said before, and a social fracture at a precise moment when the catalá recedes as the vehicle language and as the language of shared use in the school. Before this is essential, it is more necessary than ever, an inclusive, cohesive political independence, based on the defense of social, civil and political rights for everyone, for everyone, without exclusions. And in this context, the right to school in catalá is a right for everyone, it is a right of all, because it is the right that guarantees cohesion and coexistence in our home in a clearer and more obvious way. This motion, in short, what they claim is nothing more than to confirm the majority social consensus that has always existed in this country around immersion; a consensus that remains necessary, that will continue to be indispensable. And they want to close, too, the parliamentary majority in favour of linguistic and catalic immersion as a vehicle language; it is a duty of this Parliament and it is an absolutely essential necessity at these times, and we also want to demand, remembering and claiming all those people who have struggled, that they fight and continue to fight in defense of catalic as a common good for everyone and for all the members of our community. There is a defence of the right to school in catalá for the whole school community without exclusions and divisions. And the best way to do that is to apply immersion to all the schools; also to the eighty that have rejected judicial bans to apply quotas in castle. And this requires applying resources, the resources that the school needs to apply this model successfully; responsibility and leadership, and defending students, families and teachers who have chosen to defend a school in Catalan. We can give political and legal security, we have the skills. Without doubt, our independence, our republic will strengthen this capacity, but today we have the skills and we cannot neglect them. As long as this Parliament is on the sidelines of the defense of the school in Catalan, of this majority consensus. It's important that the government is there, too. They'll keep us on the side to build solutions and win that end. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.173.0	To defend the papers presented, has the word in first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, MP Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.174.0	Thank you, President. And thank you also to the People's Unity Candidate for the good deal in the negotiation process of this much-needed motion at this time. Today, Councillor Cambray, at the control session, told us..., he asked for confidence for the teaching staff – teachers, teachers in general –, and we consider that this confidence must also materialize with resources and with concrete policies. The Administration has to retake the kingdoms and act, from then on, with linguistic policies to guarantee the vehicle role of the català, reinforcing its inclusive character from a perspective of cultural diversity. Thus, our aim is to contribute to it, precisely, by making an emphasis on the demands of the collection of professionals in the classrooms. And in a context where there is a need for a valid recollection of the model of linguistic immersion in Catalonia, it is necessary that the collide classrooms, which play a transcendental role, give answers to the initial needs of the alumni who, coming from other countries, are incorporated into the centres of Catalonia, with an initial disconnection of the vehicle language. Experts and experts claim that it is a stage of no less than five years so that the student will pass the first immediate stage of understanding and communication and will have the necessary linguistic competence in order to continue with academic learning. And from educational sectors it is reported that the Department of Education has not established any specific, general and stable resources for this second phase of learning. Moreover, the gradual reduction in the number of classrooms in schools and institutes since 2009-2010, the reduction of teachers– by six-cents in 2019-2020 and by five-cents in 2020-2021–, puts at risk the resources of gathering many centers, or the underdotes, the few that hold some classrooms. In this way, attacks on the language immersion model in education are compounded by the fact that language learning is not guaranteed to and from the world. Because, beyond the feelings and attacks that are making the arm of the right..., the judicial arm of the right and the extreme right, the current situation obviously has a lot to see with this intent, with this new attack to break the social, political and pedagogical consensus of Catalonia. But it is partly due to the situation we have today, to the lack of active policies of leadership, protection, follow-up and updating of the language model by the Generality in recent years. We cannot boast of having political, pedagogical and social consensuses, with broad consensus, if the administrations that have done so are relaxing over the last few years and are now paying, too, for the lack of linguistic policies of these later years. And we continue to argue that linguistic policies, although obviously, should not be a truncated element of the culture of this country, should not be subject, at the presuppositionary level, to the Department of Culture, because, despite the increase in the presupposition in linguistic policies in the presupposition that you have to be ready to approve and that from Comú We have been able to improve it, we continue to think that it is totally insufficient for the situation that we have of linguistic emergence today. We think that the national language pact has to be fully endowed, much better equipped..., the whole subtitle theme, the whole digitalization policy theme, too, of the catalá can't just be in the Department of Culture. And we're talking about all these elements at the level of..., which help us to increase the social use of català, but we're also talking about the need for new jurisprudence so that letters, jurists, etc., have tools to leave the old law completely buried. Therefore, we need political courage, legal tools, to gather the professorship with concrete ideas and to understand that the Catalan is not a patrimony of the political party, but absolutely of the whole people of Catalonia, because, in fact, some political parties of the Catalan bourgeoisie, also represented here, did not, in their moment, oppose the model of linguistic immersion. Therefore, we also find ourselves disbanded to defend the Catalan language immersion model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.175.0	Then, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, has the words of Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.176.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, again... since the PSC, what we want is for us to stop throwing languages through the head. Certain parties, one or the other, are the ones that have hurt the català, or the ones that have hurt the català the last few years. Options that proposed a division of Catalan society, some of which have no shame in recovering their initial idea of the two lines. Before they were separated, there were two assignments to be made in the castle? Is that really what it's like to estimate languages? Designing a fragmented society in two or more linguistic communities is what they want? From the PSC we think that we need to continue to encourage and protect Catalan language. We maintain that the Catalan language must be, as it is, a common and shared language for the conjunction of the educational community and society, a tool of cohesion, without exclouring the castle and other mother tongues today present in Catalonia. And if the consensus is to preserve the Catalan language as a vehicle language, if it is to guarantee the domain of the three official languages of Catalonia or we would like to add a third or a fourth, if it is to preserve the autonomy of the educational centers, the pedagogical criteria, there we are; a common school, as I explained to my later intervention. But we think that we can understand that if we want to strengthen the consensus around the language model at school, it is important that everyone is willing to stand in the other's place, to listen to us. And since the PSC, we take over. It is clear that the Catalan must continue to feel the language of gravity, vehicle language, common heritage. But let's recognize that there may be other languages of content vehicles in an educational framework that we want multilingual, reflecting a multicultural society: the castle, which is an official language, or the English language. We also recognize that immersion is a pedagogical tool that helps teachers to learn languages. It is not a sacred doctrine to be applied as closely as possible, but it must be modular, taking into account the socio-linguistic reality of each educational centre, its surroundings, in order to achieve as a minimum the objective of the full domain of official languages, the band of a functional use of a third language at the end of compulsory education. And let us recognize that, more or less like, the feelings cannot be disobeyed, that they must be completed, that this responsibility cannot be transferred to the directions of the educational centres or to the cloisters, that the Government must give compliment, as has always been done in these cases, and that it must transfer security and serenity to the educational community. Because the application of twenty-i-five_per_cent does not suppose death or the end of the català. The català can't defend against the castle, or the other way around. No one has to see it as a claudication, as a defeat. And it's precisely this bad defense... that's what's giving it bad results for what it does to linguistic uses. And it's that while at school we have the highest levels of linguistic competence, because mostly until today the educational curriculum has been done practically everything, except the castle and the English... And here I also want to say that we would like to see linguistic projects really adapted or differentiated, depending on the socio-linguistic reality of each centre, as Councillor Maragall or Councillor Bargalló called for in his day; but in reality it has not been so much this way. He said that the linguistic skills are probably the greatest they have ever had in Catalonia. But, on the other hand, the linguistic uses, which do not depend on schools or institutes, nor do they depend on the Department of Education, have gone backwards. Why? For what we say: political polarization, fragmentation of society, loss of prestige, changes in audiovisual platforms, etc. Therefore, what we want or expect is the government's leadership in the defense of the català without exclosure of the castle, not statements that go from "no re re to "no re can be made. No, no, Leadership to act with intelligence in defending the interests of the education system, the improvement of the linguistic model of our schools and the skills of our students. Give compliments to the sentences. If they do the right thing girls, they'll keep us at their side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.177.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.178.0	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen, let's go back with another young man on the tongue. It looks like a monogram on the tongue. But I think that here the debate..., I was told by the company Joan García, in a realism exercise that I think suits the conjunct of the chamber..., the next: the debate here in Catalonia is monolingualism in Catalan or a bilingual model in Catalan and in Castilà. And we, moreover, bring our idea: that, beyond the castle and the català, there is a reasonable and balanced presence of the English. This is the debate. Here we have some parties, the nationalist parties, that say no, that the only vehicle language that must be in Catalan school is Catalan, that is why we are a thousand-year-old born, that must have a single language. And there are other matches – obviously ours – that we defend a bilingual model, a model in which the language or majority languages of Catalans are represented, both the català and the castella. So, I don't understand, I just didn't hear why we don't clarify the debate any more, why don't we look into each other's eyes and recognize what they want. You want a monolingual model that, for reasons that you consider appropriate, consider to be the best for Catalonia. That they obviously lack the right of the Spanish speaking citizens of Catalonia, that they have the castle as their mother tongue? Yeah. That the right of Catalan-speaking citizens of Catalonia who have a right to a worthy teaching in the castle should also be diminished? Also. That obviously there are still opportunities for the competitiveness of the citizens of Catalonia towards a market every time more globalized where the castle is, as some company once commented, very important? Also. And I think this is a debate we need to keep. From Ciutadans, we will always defend a bilingual or trilingual model; a model in which there is a balanced presence of the català and the castle as in the first languages of the citizens of Catalonia and also a presence of the angled language. Now I feel the speech of Mrs. Niubó..., that I will not express any more preferences for Mrs. Niubó and Mr. Illa, but everyone knows that, effectively, I also value his opinion, his moderation, his always kindness. And I think it's important to be able to say that I'd be happy to agree to this. Because, I insist, I think it is important – I say it again – that these demonstrations made by the Party of Socialists of Catalonia to the plenary of Parliament also have a correlation to the motions or motions for resolutions that are presented to the committees. Because until now what I've seen historically has been a socialist party that has been condescending or, in the worst of cases, has had a rather paorous attitude before the nationalist parties that imposed this monolingual idea of the linguistic reality of Catalonia. It's a very curious thing, the one that happens in Catalonia, because we have a supposedly anti-system party, which is one of the parties that has one of the most radical ultra-nationalist linguistic discourses in Europe. The leaders of the CUP, far from saying that we are internationalists or supporters of a society different from that which we have with an altermundist speech, which would have a certain sense – which I would not subscribe to, but which would have its meaning – are here defending an absolutely ironic attitude, an absolutely meaningless attitude in terms of the linguistic question, in order to defend the freedom which, for example, the great authors of the Catalan anarchism, like Mr. Francesc Ferrer and Mr. Gardía, defended. This attitude of the nationalism of the CUP, which says that the català must be exactly the same as the castle at the conjunct of Espanya, is very contradictory, profoundly contradictory with a discourse supposedly internationalist. That is why I say that this ethnic nationalist, Romanist nationalist, essentialist, more than Romanist, speech of an ethnolinguistic nationalism is so normalized that it is not common in our Western democratic framework. And I think that from this point of view it would be magnificent, it is something that I am more convinced every day that it would be interesting..., today when I was talking to Mr. Cambray, I actually see it: "Dear Catalonia – and I gave it to TV3 the other day – "you have right to a public debate you know, it will be about the question of language. A public debate, Mr Cambray, between representatives of monolingualism, the defense of a monolingual system in which the Catalan is the only language to drive for all the reasons that you are used to branding because you are a supporter of this, and another person– and I offer it–, to have a balanced debate, you will be on TV3 on the bonds of a system that recognizes the plurality of Catalan society, with the Catalan and the castle as a vehicle language, in addition to the English, and you defend its monolingual system, which says that the Catalan is in danger and that it must be the only language to drive at the Catalan schools. It would be a lot to do, this exercise. And I offer him..., and I reach out to him to do it, then he wants it, or even we can manifest it before the directors and presidents of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Thank you, Counselor, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.179.0	Finally, in this round of defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta. [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Will Mr. Gallego do it? [[Pause.]] Perfect. So, Mr. Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.180.0	Yes; thank you very much, Madam President. Well, I want to start this intervention with a reflection, because, finally, depending on what I've been hearing all morning, there is one thing that does draw my attention powerfully. In March this Parliament was formed, and the first thing we saw was that we were started to teach swastikas – swastikas. The first day. That lady who's here, or that lady who's here, that congresswoman. He taught us swastikas. Since that day, some 200 times a day they call us fascists; I've heard Nazis sometimes – I've heard them. And this Member says yes – he says yes. And what's going on? Then they cry, as this Member has said, because they banalize, some, fascism and Nazism. I agree – and the CUP spokesman has also said – that Nazism cannot be trivialised – I agree. But you're the first ones to do it. Since the 1st day of the legislature. So lessons, the fair ones. Behavioural [[some applause]] with less cynicism and less hypocrisy. And now, speaking of the motion before us, we will not logically vote in favour of a single comma of the proposed text – nor one. I know you're not surprised. We will not support a motion that presents a group that applauds people who harass, stigmatize, demonize a five-year-old in Canet de Mar for wanting to study a twenty-five_per_cent..., according to the sentences. Nor are we going to support a political group, the text of a political group that shows that it burns containers, that it likes to presume that it does not comply with judicial judgments, that it gives it the same constitutional framework and that, therefore, it has a somewhat misconception of what democracy and the separation of powers is, is it not? We cannot give the approval to a text of a motion that is intended only to remove and relegate the common language of all Spaniards and the majority in Catalonia, and that is Spanish. Our position is clear: we want any Spanish citizen to be able to study in Spanish or Spanish at any point in the national territory, without need and, of course, without being targeted or being bullied. I do not think it is much to ask that what happens here in any civilized country in Europe be fulfilled: that one can study in the official language of the state without suffering this terrible social pressure; in his mother tongue, which is also the majority in Catalonia. Different technical studies and some UNESCO resolutions state that the best thing for a child, if they care about the child, is that it can be studied in the mother tongue. But since this is not the case, it is not the language, nor is it the defence of the interests of the child, but it is the use of Catalan as a basic tool of national construction, for then you care absolutely nothing about education and the rights of the child. We're not going to swallow, therefore, your sart of lies. His supremacist, classist and totalitarian spirit has been credited to Canet. Shameful and miserable has been the government's silence at the brazen harassment of a family in Canet, and they have kept quiet so that other parents do not have the temptation to reapply for the sentence. It's just that there's evil in his silence, it's not a lost silence and it's not a casual silence. We are therefore going to continue to defend, as we have been defending one of the day's legislatures, Spanish, democracy, the separation of powers, the enforcement of judicial sentences and the right of Spanish-speaking pupils to study their mother tongue. And now, if you want, do what you're used to: call me a fascist, a Nazi, an ultra-rightist, and as the deputy Democrat who sits with his little head says, yes, do so, because I care about a very holy radish. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.181.0	Next, after the turn of defense of the papers, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Group Mixt, the deputy Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.182.0	Thank you, President. Four points to justify our vote denying the motion. First: pure immersion does not apply to the Community of the European Union where there are various languages; neither to the Basque Country, nor to Flanders, Ireland or Switzerland. At all events, two models: either two different lines or pure bilingualism. But what is done here is not done; this is important for me to be clear. Why? Because in the rest of Europe the pure immersion model is directly illegal. And now they know that here too. And you know, after repeated feelings they say. Here what is legal is what is called linguistic conjunction, which we could also define as corrected immersion, which is an interpretation, said follow by step, extraordinarily generous, because in the background it has nothing to do with pure bilingualism. Actually, it's not our model, it's what the court says. Our model, which we carry as proposed, is forty, forty, twenty català, forty castella and come in a third foreign language. But we've got the seventy-five twenty-five, although it's not ours. Why? Because we're democrats and democrats as we feel. Three: Diving is not a success model. How can it be a success model if you yourself say that the social use of català is worse than in Franco's time? What's the matter, what do you say Franco protected the català better than you? Well, I don't know, it could be; I'd say no, but go. In any case, it's obviously not working. The social use of català, after twenty-three years of application of the immersion, drops in a sensitive way; this is incontrovertible. Why? Fourth point: Well, you say that because of Madrid; it's still Madrid's fault. It is like that song by Def Con Dos, « the guilt of everything has Yoko Ono. So, well, you... the fault of everything in Madrid. So no: the blame is essentially his, because they're making the català a profoundly anti-pathic language for a substantial part of the Catalan population. Why? So because there's a progressive identification with a very concrete political project. And that's not what we bring out of the handcuff. The one who says the Koiné manifesto, of which she's an outspoken defender, Mrs. Outràs and more deputies from here... man, too dear to the castle doesn't do it. And what you say many times to compare the social use of the castle in Catalonia with that of Swahili or other languages of this type, with all respect for these languages, but not help either. And then why also – and this is very worrying when we talk about social use – there is a growing identification of cultural production in Catalonia, too, with an ideology. It's a concept of what's not often spoken of, because..., even though you make him serve a lot, but it's something we're thinking about, which is that of patriotic culture; it's something that they like very much to you. Certainly, it is one of the most neo-feixist concepts; neither Saenz of Heredia in Franco's time would have talked about patriotic culture with as much enthusiasm as you do. Mirin: neither Serrat, nor Josep Pla, nor Sisa, nor Floats nor so many others needed any subsidization of patriotic culture to bring the català to the world with the utmost dignity. And a projection that would already please the patriotic artists who are now subsidizing you. In short, what you defend is not only illegal at all – not only in Spain, in all the communities, I insist, Europeans of confluence of various languages – it does not only violate the linguistic rights of a substantial part of Catalan society, but also does not really help the protection of the social use of Catalan; it is a short round. So, look, now we have a feeling of a change; a shy change, which we think can end up feeling positive, despite the fact that, I insist, it is not our model a priori. But what it takes is a change. Because it has been shown that more immersion is less social use, given to the hand, twenty-three years after the language policy law of year 98. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.183.0	On behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, Mr. Francesc Ten has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.184.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning; deputies, deputies, very good morning. I thank the CUP that has presented this motion; the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group will vote in favour. It's a question out of partyism, it's a question of country. And the attacks of the extreme right language of VOX, PP and Citizens, so, don't surprise us, they make a lot of political shame, for lying and misrepresentation, and to me, personally, they make me a setback for this despair and verbal violence that today and yesterday demonstrated in this hemisphere. « What a blemish! What did Ramon Muntaner say, what a blemish! Thank you, Ramon Muntaner, for that. The four of them... [[Greetings.]] The first four points of the motion, and, in fact, practically the whole motion, are linked to the compliment of what Title II of the Law on Language Education says in its language rule, and also articles 92, 93, 94. I'm reading them, please – I'm reading them. It's not trivial that I'm referring to, because it's the legal framework that we need to defend for Catalonia, and we'd like the feelings of the TSJ to be completed just like that and not contradict it. We give all our support to El Turó del Drac School, Canet, teachers, children, the family, the whole educational community and management. This sentence is unfair, and the powers of the State, with precautionary measures, do not take into account the LEC that this very Parliament has sovereignly approved. And what's the point? So we're at the point that institutions need to act. The company wants firm answers and we can't live any longer in this "while while, while, the State licks our linguistic rights, and many others, and puts the immersion in danger. And he knows that posing in peril the immersion attacks the country model. Therefore, it seems to me that we can no longer live in this "while. Calia, this sentence? Of course not. The LEC, in Articles 13 and 14, already says that the linguistic project of the centre has to include the teaching and learning process of the castle. Do you know that? This is no longer the judicialization of politics, it's the judicialization and the intentional politicization at school, which we must avoid, and the courts cannot decide our model of teaching. And we need to be able to say it quietly. We need to think about how we don't leave the directions of the centers as the target of the courts. The LEC speaks, in Articles 92 and 93, of co-responsibility with the Administration. So we act, as the judge says, to protect the directions and that they can apply the LEC and dedicate themselves to schooling and skills and knowledge. If we want the masters and the directions to do the job well, to complement the LEC, to school and to accompany the promotion plan of the català, which we believe in, it is very necessary and defence, so it is also true that we must protect them from attacks and feelings, as we have seen. We'll be on the side of the government in everything you have to do to move forward on this line. We have proposals of different types and different times and we have work to do, certainly, in Madrid, with the Celaá law. The Constitution does not protect in full equality the diversity of the State, people or not; it makes supremacist domination of one group by the world of others: the officiality by the world of co-officiality. Where are we, too? At the point that the powers of the State will measure us if this Parliament, the Government, the parties, the institutions and the whole society does not make a great mobilization to defend the immersion. And let's ask the PSC again if they're in favor of the immersion described in the LEC. Mr. Iceta, Mr. Illa, defend her with the same firmness that they say in favor of making her more flexible? We have not seen that the PSOE – we have not seen that the PSOE – has very firmly rejected the furious attacks of these days, totalitarianists of the PP. It's true that no one has to be attacked – it's true that no one has to be attacked. And if he did, he shouldn't have done it. But we have to defend the LEC, immersion it. And in defense of you that the boys and girls have the right to teach them in catalá, because it is a basic right of equality for all of them, and that it comes out with the corresponding skills; not with two languages, with three. And that immersion does not last, because it is the guarantee of the future of the Catalan society, and because it can help to increase the social use of català. I take the opportunity to make a collective appeal, as has already been done, for this disagreement at the demonstration in Somescola. We will vote in favour of the whole House. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.185.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mònica Palacín MP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.186.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, Members, Members, did not want to start, I say, by referring to any parliamentary group that was not the proposer of this young man, but I have to say: not to put it another way. Deputy Gallego... Spanish doesn't exist. If you want to honor your language, speak Spanish or Spanish. Spanish doesn't exist. [[Some applause.]] Well, Mr. Riera... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Riera, thank you for presenting this motion. We share with you, with your parliamentary group, the content of all the motion put forward. A young man who looks at everyone, a young man who asks all the groups that made the agreement and the consensus possible, and that now we can put it in danger. We'll work because that's not true. To reinforce the political and social majorities that have made it possible for linguistic immersion to be a key model of success for the social cohesion of the country and for the normalization of language. Now we see, however – and he has not mentioned it too – that in these last fifteen years there has been a flood of the social use of català in all spheres; at school too. We have the dice and they're not good. A gradual decrease in the formal and non-formal use of Catalan language in educational centres. Students, our students, perceive català as an academic language and, unlike the beginnings of immersion, that it was a more knowledgeable tool and opportunities, today young people, without enough references in their entertainment spaces – especially the whole digital field – and with a very low demand for the use of Catalan language in many jobs..., many times, the first job that young people are looking for, interviewing the fan in Castilian language, they are doing it in Castilian language – and, certainly, the most precarious of these jobs. Young people, therefore, relegate Catalan language very easily to a mere occasional use. We need to get old for..., thank you because you're looking for the Spanish or Spanish language, now. We need to age for the effective application of language immersion programs in all levels of the department. In view of this, we note the impetus of the Government, that the department wants a long-term programme to promote the use of Catalan language in educational centres; important objectives, such as the commitment and collaboration of the educational community in the better use of Catalan language, to increase the use of Catalan in educational centres, to facilitate its learning, to enhance the role of the teacher as a linguistic model, and to understand that, in order to do all this, it is essential, therefore, to provide professional tools and resources to be able to develop their work better. That is why we will also vote in favour of the point of addition of the group of commons. For what it does to the Supreme Court's resolution, which makes the ruling of the TSJ firm, we know that the government will assume all the political and social responsibility that lies ahead, and this has already been transferred by the councillor to the addresses of all educational centres. Today, once more, as always, we want to thank thousands of teachers for their work and their commitment to the education of our children and young people. As far as Canet is concerned, this is not the first place where precautionary measures or sentences are applied; there are eighty cases expected to affect all education advisors since 2013. Therefore, it would be good, too, that it is not fessinous great pronouncements or magical solutions, that we understand that they are easy to make, but responsible people. Hence, from here on, you have also given support to advisors and advisers who preceded Councillor Cambray and also executed these sentences: Irene Rigau, Meritxell Ruiz, Clara Ponsatí and Josep Bargalló. The difference with the case of Canet is that it came out in parallel with the feeling of the TSJ addressed to the department, and that it had much more media. But do they know what they all have in common? So the current borders of the legal and political brands and on the margins of our self-government, a more motivating reason to explain how all of our own country's own tools keep us warm so that we don't have to continue asking permission to be and persist. Finally, to encourage everyone, also the deputies of this chamber, also especially the deputies of the Socialist Party, because we are sure that the members of the educational community will be very pleased to see 'lsdissabte to the demonstration. For everything, thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.187.0	To pronounce on the papers, has the word the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.188.0	Thank you, President. Well, we have to say we celebrate, we see and celebrate the consensus reached with the groups of the government, with Esquerra and Juntes for Catalonia, and also with the commons. I believe that with this we guarantee that this motion will indeed be approved in this Parliament by a large majority. We are still asking the Socialist Party which also votes in favour. We have to say that we share many of the aspects of your speech and, therefore, this makes it difficult for us to hear your thoughts, which, frankly, we do not think fit well with the speech you have made. To be honest, they are points that, if we have assumed them, we have clearly drawn up the hope of this young man, that, as I said before, they do not want anything else to say, to re-edit major social consensus and vast majority of this Parliament in defense of a school in català, of català as a vehicle language, of català as a common and shared language, of català as a common good of all our society and, therefore, of immersion as the best way to solace it. Because what we have to point out to you, the Socialists and the Socialists: we are making this debate at a time of backsliding from the catalá to social and school levels. The same representative of the People's Party admitted it. Therefore, this is the context. Therefore, it is not a moment of least català. They can't take on feelings that intend to impose less català on the school. It's a time to apply immersion and to restate consensus in this sense. And I think that's what we're gonna do on our own days, months and weeks. Civil society, educational community, movement in defense of language and culture, parties, Som Escola, we will all defend, from institutions and from the street, that the school must be in català, that this is the best instrument to generate cohesion and coexistence in our country, that we want the català to be a tool and an instrument of cohesion and finding. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.189.0	Yes, Mr. Gallego, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.190.0	Article 90 and then 87 for allusions. Very briefly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.191.0	For allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.192.0	Fifteen seconds. I've been relieved by Esquerra's wallet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.193.0	One moment, Mr. Gallego. You've made your intervention. And we said again and again that we made it clear that there were no references in the course of a journey, such as that of a young man, in which you, as bearers defending the young man, are continually listening. Therefore, you were not directly greeted... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But it was you who made the defense of the young man; therefore, all of them were heard directly. So, for this concept, I can't give you the word. So the debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to be this late, the substantiation of item 17 on the order of the day is over. Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.194.0	President, just to ask for an acclaim, if you are right to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.195.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.196.0	When a situation appeared in this Parliament, you gave the word to Mr Riera, without having been personally mentioned, so I don't know what concept. Go ahead, for an interpretation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.197.0	That of the violation of the least education among parliamentarians who are making direct messages. And it was actually 30 seconds. [[applause]] And his group was recriminated on the Board of Spokesmen for this lack of elementary parliamentary education. [[Ignacio Martín Blanco asks to speak.]] No, you... you can't talk if I don't give him the word, Mr. Martín Blanco. And he asked me to cheer him up and I made him cheer him up. So, if I make this acclaim, I don't have to... Why do I ask for the word again, Mr. Martín Blanco?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.198.0	Because I'm surprised you're self-reliant on the guarantor of education and parliamentary courtesy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.199.0	No, Mr. Martín Blanco, he's not confounded. I don't stand up for myself. I'm the Speaker of Parliament, I'm in charge of addressing the debates, she asked me for a clarification and I did it. Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the question to the Government on the application of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia establishing that at least twenty-five per cent of the classes of educational centres must be divided into castles]] [[302-00072/13]] The fifteenth point of the order of the day is the motion following the question to the Government on the application of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia which establishes that at least twenty-five percent of the classes of educational centres must be divided into castles. It was introduced by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans and, to expose it, by Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.200.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are presenting the motion arising from the question we made to Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray. It consists of fifteen points, and in any democratic parliament in the world, therefore, the fifteen points should be approved without excessive problems. The first of them. Well, from the first of them it is to say that if we are as we are it is because the Generalitat has simply failed to comply with the sentence that forced him..., the laws – pardon –, the Generalitat has failed to comply with the laws that forced him to teach Spanish and Catalan classes in a reasonable proportion, according to the circumstances of the student. Since the Generalitat did not comply with this obligation, the courts have replaced it by twenty-five_per_cent. That is why the twenty-five_per_cent must be fulfilled, not because the courts design educational strategies. It is for the violation of the laws, by the Generalitat, that the court obliges him to do the twenty-five_per_cent. Second. I'll take care of We are voting that, certainly, in a parliament, there is no reason why we should vote to comply with the sentences, but we do want everyone to be voted on so that everyone can be portrayed, and, above all, that the Socialist Party, with the pedagogical value that it can have for its voters, is not, let us say, a typhism when it comes to assessing that the sentences simply have to be complied with. Third. That precise adaptations be made in educational curricula, textbooks and school materials to comply with the sentence. Fourth. Let objective tests be carried out. To break the mantra that the Catalans who finish education speak as well as the Castilian as the Vallisoletans or the Extremians, for let tests be made that they truly believe that; that they are not done, there is none. That reports be made – point 5 – and statistical studies of the impact of linguistic immersion on school performance and school failure. There are studies that say that Spanish-speaking students have more school failure, regardless of the social factor. Sixth. One more consequence of the enforcement of the judgment: that the management teams be instructed to change the language projects, and a new programming of the teaching time to include the Spanish language, ultimately resulting from the enforcement of the judgment. Seventh. Ensure the normal development of pupils and their families in the language they choose in the school premises and beyond. Let no one call a child's attention for the language spoken in the courtyard. Eight. Eliminate espionage and coercive surveys carried out in educational institutions. Nine. Recognize the right of parents to relate to the centre in the language they choose; in Spanish or Catalan, in which they choose. As we do in society, we speak as we please, so the same thing. Point 10. Apologize, gentlemen of the Generalitat. Why? For fighting and losing, for avocating families to throw away years spending their money to, in the end, you lose because you are not right. I'm sorry to have to deal with these families who are being subjected to judicial calvary. Eleven. To reject the attempt to assimilate part of the Catalan population and to force or seek the purposes for which they change their family language. This is social engineering, and it seems to us serious that we intend to do that in Catalonia. Sweet. Supporting staff from the Administration who want to comply. Support. That our Parliament should support those who want to comply with the sentences. Pass. Strong condemnation of slavery, threats, coercion to which families or their pupils are subjected, and especially the case of the child of Canet. Fourteen. It condemns the distribution of a survey by the syndic who intends to supervise teachers to know in which languages they are expressed, and who, moreover, scandalously omits the need to warn parents that the survey is being conducted. And finally, point fifteen, is a reprobation to Councillor Gonzàlez-Cambray. But why? For sending a letter to the officials asking them to violate their legal obligation, to play their job, for placing the head of the Administration between the sword and the wall. Another new scandal in the Catalan administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.201.0	To defend the papers presented, Mrs Esther Niubó, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, continued the sentence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.202.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs will allow me – and I think they will please me – to be more brief in this intervention. It seems to me that the position of my group, Socialists and Forward Units, has already been made clear in previous interventions. But let's start with the principle. In Catalonia, all the feelings about the education system and the schooling in the castle – all – have always been fulfilled, in all the times and also today, in Canet, are being completed. The feeling of the TSJ has not even been communicated to the department, and we have had to feel formations that already directly called the application of Article 155, when the deadline for complimenting the feeling has not even begun to count. Doesn't it have to be that far from seizing the people they are looking for is political confrontation to get an electoral recipe that doesn't matter to them at all about coexistence or better education? But look, as always, the PSC is a serious game, and we say that the feelings are to be completed. And we ask the government not to support its political action in disobedience; that it does what it has to do, that it is to give compliments to the feeling when it responds, in the way it does, and not to contribute more to the media that does not fit or benefit the education system, some families or others. And what has happened in Canet is a misconception: people on social networks asking to stone the house of a child under five years old; a manifestation of part in the exit of a school; an entire councilman placing even more focus on this school, quite already pointed out, thus contributing also to politicization, and pitiful painted from another, yesterday morning, at school. That's enough. Our most absolute condemnation of the threats suffered by this family and their son. Our call to leave schools in peace again. And the demand, this yes, to the Government, to summon all the groups to share the situation and the plans for what it does at the post-sentence school level. Leave the ambiguity, act as a government, less flaunt demonstrations and more propose solutions. And there are points of Ciutadan's motion that we don't like; or so, the attitude counts. Attitude and language, vocabulary, count, and it's very important in these issues, so don't hurt sensitivities either. And, therefore, there should be questions, there should be points, that we could agree on the background; but, go on, I think language and attitude, as I said, must be taken into account. So I said that I think our position was clear. We want to build bridges, look for points of finding, work for consensus or refer to it, strengthen those that already exist socially, politically. And in this, then, we will continue to work. Language must be a vehicle of communication and understanding and never of confrontation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.203.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group VOX, the deputy Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.204.0	Thank you very much, President. And good morning, almost late, ladies and gentlemen. The deputy of Esquerra Republicana said, when she was denying the existence of the Spanish language, that the Spanish language must be honoured– honouring the Spanish language. You have said that the Spanish language must be honoured. You are a tremendous ambassador of the linguistic policy of the Generality. It will allow me to correct it: it is said to honour the Spanish language. And, by the way, the Spanish language does exist, what does not exist is the republic. [[Some applause.]] Education in Catalonia, in the last forty years, since the transfer of education skills to the autonomous communities, has become a powerful weapon at the service of separatism and ideological imposition. And we have been denouncing it since our arrival in the Parliament of Catalonia. And the sad events that have recently taken place in Canet are proof of that. Ladies and gentlemen, Spanish is not a foreign language in Catalonia; it is not and will never be, no matter how much you try to make it believe and use your thugs to silence and intimidate those who want to exercise their legitimate right to be educated in Spanish. Unfortunately, we live in a region where apartheid is practiced to all those who ask to be educated in their mother tongue, in the case that is the Spanish language. This is what happens with the families of Mataró, Balaguer, Llagostera or Cabrera, who ask for at least some subjects in their educational centers that are in Spanish; something that, by the way, supports the law, not only the third article of the Spanish Constitution, but the law itself on linguistic policy of the Generality and the Superior Court of Justice. The only ones who discriminate here once again are you, it is the Government of the Generalitat and all those who have preceded it in recent years. The current educational model is not a model of success, as you like to say. I wish it was, but it's not. It is a discriminatory model, which denies the use of the Spanish language as a vehicle for thousands of Catalan families. A model that has been implemented in Catalonia with the invaluable collaboration of the Socialist Party and the sad pacts of the People's Party of the Majestic. Those who discriminate are not Catalan families, they are the nefarious political leaders we suffer, like the undesirable counselor, who is now not here, who is gone, the councillor of Education, who has promoted harassment campaigns against Catalan families for asking to educate their children in bilingualism. A counselor who, of course, does not love Catalan, but who deeply hates Spanish and all those who usually use it. Do you imagine for a moment a Berlinian child, a Bavarian child, asking to be educated in German and his Government would deny it in its own land? Or a child, for example, who would ask to be educated in Italian and denied it in his own land? This is what happens in Catalonia and something frankly incomprehensible to any medium-developed country in the world. Ladies and gentlemen, please be aware: Catalan families requesting the inclusion of Spanish-language subjects in their children's school teaching project are simply asking for the application of Catalan language law. But you, far from putting into operation just laws that promote cohesion, the correct educational development of students and freedom, prefer to use public money to finance linguistic chiringuitos, such as the case of Platforme per la Llengua : 756,000_euros public for Platforme per la Llengua, an association at the service of separatism that encourages teachers to disobey court sentences and that, therefore, also dedicates itself to the espionage of children in school, to see in which language they speak. In short, successive governments of the Generality have devoted great efforts and public resources to denaturalizing Catalonia and stripping that of one of its languages. They have put in place a plan, with the excuse of defending Catalan, to go gradually cornering Spanish. They have gone from calling the Catalan language a co-official language, together with Spanish, to calling the language a vehicle and from there calling their own language, with the sole aim of making Catalan the only language, the only language of Catalonia, completely excluding Spanish, which is as native to Catalonia as Catalan is. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote in favour of this motion and we will continue to fight against linguistic discrimination and the defence of the rights of all Catalans to be educated in the language they prefer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.205.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.206.0	Thank you, President. Well, look, in this country – indeed, in our country – there is an important social fracture, there is an important social divide. Unfortunately, there are important social fractures. Social fractures that groups defending motions like this have the responsibility to provoke and defend with their political programs and with their political action. These fractures are said to be precarious, they are said to be poor, they are said to be unequal, they are said to be masculinism, they are said to be lack of housing, they are said to be racism. These are the fractures our country suffers from for political programs and for political actions such as those of groups defending motions of this nature. And, indeed, there is persecution in this country; there is persecution of dissent, there is persecution of independence, there is persecution of those who fight for equality, against racism, against fascism and against masculinism. Actually, there is. There is persecution and there is social fracture, which you provoke in our society. And we, who fight against all these inequalities; we, who fight against these fractures; we, who want the cohesion of our country and equality in our country, is why we defend the school in catalá; that is why we defend that catalá is common and shared in all our school communities; that is why we defend the system of linguistic immersion, because it guarantees a better linguistic competence in this multilingual context that all of us want, and that is the system that allows us and guarantees us a greater coexistence and cohesion. Because we don't want two types of classrooms with Catalan speaking or Spanish speaking children, we don't want two types of Catalan speaking or Spanish speaking schools; we want the same school for all, the only quality, inclusive and inclusive school for all. A school that is guaranteed equality and equity, starting with language, so that it is a school with a vehicle language, with a teaching language that does not exclose anyone and that is from everyone and for everyone, for everyone and against no one. And that's why we defend linguistic immersion in Catalan. A system that demonstrates, clearly and effectively, that it is capable of creating coexistence, cohesion and linguistic competence for all. And that's why – that's why – we can't accept or abide by feelings that claim to impose quotas, that claim to divide the school community and the educational community, because we don't want to divide and because it's not a question of quotas; it's a question of a school model, a coherent, coherent and cohesive pedagogical model. And that's why we defend immersion and apply immersion to all the schools in our country, with resources, leadership and legal certainty, as the best response to these feelings. The best response to the feeling is to apply firmly, firmly, with resources and with political, institutional and legal guarantees throughout the educational community, linguistic immersion. And the best response to these sentiments is to defend – defend –, without any hint of fever or doubt, the individual rights and collections of this vast majority of people in our country – students, families and teachers – that have chosen for this model of cohesion and coexistence. To defend the right of everyone – to defend the right of everyone – that he has chosen because the català is a right of all, without exclusions, of everyone and against no one. Therefore, in order to avoid the provocation that you want to provoke by breaking our society by linguistic communities, because we bet by equality, because we bet by cohesion, because, as we said, we bet because the Catalan language is a right of all without exclusion, that is why we will vote against this and so many motions in the same sense that you present us. And, as we have said before, it is a shared, joint and unitary mobilization of major parliaments, political and institutional majorities, of all the assemblies of our country, of the educational community, of the social community, of the entities, of the civil society, so as to create this hegemony, this social majority at national level and in all the territories and in all the school communities, which makes it impossible to apply these feelings, because these feelings find a reality: that it is a country of equal opportunity and that language is also a common good and shared for all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.207.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word now the deputy Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.208.0	Well, well, well, then, it's late for all of us. Vote that not this young man. Let's vote for that in the votemel that you say and for what you say. I don't think it's a young man who wants to introduce elements of building new, cohesive policies, but rather wants to somehow confront communities, wants to divide, wants to fragment to confront positions. I believe that this young man is not concerned either with the judiciary or with justice in the abstract; I believe that he is not concerned about the education of young people in this country; he is not concerned about the social cohesion of the country, nor is he concerned about language and culture. I believe that the group that presents this motion is that it wants to deepen political polarization and wants to make populist politics an element to confront emotions and to store realities. So, we can't give support, say, to a young man that the only one who wants to polarize society and wants to confront from young men who love realities. Because the debate about the background and the love of the young man is whether or not we agree that the Catalan language is Catalonia's own language and, therefore, it is also from school. And that's the problem: or we understand that català is Catalonia's own language, and then it's also Catalonia's own language, or, if we don't... Let's just say it: I think it's hard for no one to deny that català is Catalonia's own language, and that if it's Catalonia's own language, it's also school, because that's why we've decided politically, with broad consensus, from the year 83, when we make a clear bet on the law of linguistic normalization for a Catalan school model that you don't divide, that doesn't fragment society as a function of linguistic communities. For this, we bet for an inclusive and inclusive school. And this is the background that we need to agree on: that the Catalan education model is inclusive and inclusive. And, if not, what is said; if a segregating educational model is wanted, which fragments the studenthood into linguistic communities, what is said. Then it's another model; it's a model we should see whether we agree or not. We obviously don't share it. But what we can't do is create subterfuges when the broad political consensus in this country is a model of Catalan school that doesn't divide the student, that doesn't divide families into linguistic communities, because that would go against social cohesion, because that would fragment society more and more. Therefore, we would do well to avoid that party politics or that the use of party politics and polarization interferes with the work of the teaching teams. I believe that the teaching teams are clear on what they are to do, that it is to apply the educational policies that popular sovereignty determines. And they do well, the teaching teams, adapt to each reality the pedagogical, didactic, educational strategies necessary to complete the objectives that politically between all of us have determined. We do not stay politically with the work of the teaching teams; we value whether or not the objectives are sunny, I would only miss, but we do not stay in the teaching methods they undertake, because they guarantee that the students of all the schools of Catalonia, in finishing their processes of learning the compulsory teaching, perfectly dominate the two languages. And that's it, and we know it. We know that this is not a conflict, there is not this conflict in relation to the knowledge of languages today in Catalonia. I, at least, know that. Since 1977 I have been a teacher at the Institute of Vocational Training in Badalona; I am no longer retired. But since the year 1977 I have given classes to the Badalona Institute – in Catalan, for sure – and I have never had any type of problem, neither I nor my student. And when I come here to Parliament to greet one who was my student, and when I put the TV on, I see one who was my student. And I have no type of problem, neither they nor I, with the teaching in Catalan. We do not, therefore, cause problems of this reality. We understand, therefore – already, that I was running out of time... –, that... I repeat, we will vote no, say, this young man, that I think they do not want to solve anything, but simply want, from political polarization, to confront and divide and fragment Catalan society into linguistic communities. And this would be a mistake for Catalonia, but above all for people, and in this case for young people and children, who, from this learning, an inclusive school model will allow them the maximum social cohesion and live with dignity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.209.0	On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.210.0	Yes, thank you, President. The truth is, I have to admit, you guys are always surprising me. Ms Palacín, denying the existence of Spanish: « Spanish does not exist. It's the parents, Mrs. Palacín. [[Rialles.]] It's just, please, I... really. Look, I'm going to read you what the RAE says about the Spanish term. He said that it was more advisable to use it to avoid ambiguity and said that it was preferable to reserve the term "Castellano" to refer to the Romanesque dialect born in the Kingdom of Castile during the Middle Ages or to the dialect of Spanish spoken precisely in this region. The RAE, Mrs. Palacín. It's just that, like all the data, it's the same, because I'm not surprised that we're as we are, honestly. They also told him, they took the subject of honour into his face, that there I am going to throw a hood at him, and the truth is that the RAE regards him as an acceptance. But those statements came to my mind, that manifesto that a boy read in Balaguer five years ago, when you also harassed a family for asking that their son be educated in Spanish, which said that he was "perfectly developed in Spanish. The teacher of Castilian, who was behind, was horrified by the "development". That, by the way, this boy today is councilman of Republican Left at Balaguer City Hall – that's the level. So prepared you come out of your system of linguistic immersion, saying "to develop" rather than "to develop, or, for example, another example that we have here..., it is not today, but Mr Batet..., I would like to recall a press conference that took place precisely in this Parliament. When the journalists asked him in Spanish he did not know how to develop himself, and he said: "Well, I have a Spanish as well as Valls. Like saying, "I don't speak it. That is the level of preparation with which the students come out of the system of linguistic immersion, that great level of Castilian. I tell you one thing: if you speak Spanish, it's not because you leave Catalan school speaking Spanish, it's that you come in speaking Spanish. The problem is that the school comes to acquire a cult register, it comes to acquire another type of competence, which, of course, with the current situation I tell you that it is impossible. It is that the data are these, look: zero_hours of education in Spanish in children – zero –, two in primary and three in the ESO. Frankly, it is that with two_hours I doubt very much that you can get the same skills as with twenty. And if someone tells me otherwise, Mr Cambray, I myself will ask you to triple the salary to the teachers of Castilian, because they do a feat: they get the same in two_hours that the others get in twenty. How is that explained? Can't you see that? I told you the other day, the arguments you make are so absurd that they fall for their own weight. And I insist again on those who say we don't have a problem with the language. How are we not going to have a problem with the language, if there is a family that has asked for one more subject – one; of all that there is, one more subject – and has connected here the greatest? With a demonstration in Canet ; a_media publishing, identifying the data of these parents, including the supposed business in which they work; Mr Cambray going to the school management to say that they do not comply with the precautionary measures. How is there not going to be a problem with the tongue? Is it that you are not seeing what is happening? Do you not read the news? Have you not seen what has happened to this five - year - old? That they're harassing him, that they're asking him to be made an apartheid. You, who take your hands to the head with apartheid, used it yourself, people of independence like you on social networks, asking that this child be isolated, that he be left alone when the class was taught in Spanish. And this was not said by anyone, it was said by a person who was on Junts per Catalunya's lists. Listen, you choose your candidates better; it's not our fault – it's not our fault. But this is the profile we have here of nationalist politicians. And, therefore, obviously, with these limbs one can do nothing other than what is happening. With regard to the motion, we will vote in favour. We like very many points; there are also some that we share. We have also asked, since the Congress of Deputies..., today we have presented an institutional declaration to condemn this very serious attitude that the Government of the Generalitat is having and, of course, to give support to Canet's family. We have also called for action in the European Union, through our colleagues in Brussels. We will also urge the creation of a high-level educational inspection body, a language law, also a single selectivity, which goes in line with point 4, which they call for here in this motion, and thus they will be left with the chollo of talking about the tests of basic competences and the tests of selectivity, which are not homologable to the rest of the examinations and therefore it is impossible to know the level that students have here. Although I've already given you the example of English. If, according to you, you have the same level of English as Catalan as Spanish, I don't explain how no one can believe level B2. Turns out we're all supercompetents here in English, but we have to make a four-year extension, and now we have to vote so that you don't believe it. Honestly, I insist, leave the mantras and, above all, seek a good education for our children.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.211.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Gloria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.212.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs... citizens today come to speak of a sentence, but they have gone astray quickly. On the eve, the Education Councillor, the President of the Generality, the syndic of heavyweights, and let's talk about Platform for Language again. And here I really want to hang on for a while. Because this is a clear example of the eternal manipulation of his speeches. There are no names, there are no surnames to the petitions, no syndic or Language Platform, no personal data. If there is no personal data, there is no breach of personal data regulations. So, prou – prou. I don't know what bothered them so many of these things. It is probably that the reality is clearly opposed to its campaign hits, that the castle is not in danger of extinction and that perhaps what will actually preserve is the català. The persecution against our language is historical: Philip V, Primo de Rivera, Franco. « Smashing our language, « they will crush a whole village. I, mirin, after three hundred years, we're still here. And it's the opposite: any intelligent people would be proud to have such a great cultural richness, with more than four languages in their own territory. But no, they prefer to feed this idea that a language can end up breaking this supposed national unity. The Catalan president Puig and Cadafalch, exhausted, wrote to his memoirs: "The day Spain understands that its unity is wrong in estimating its diversity... But it has been three hundred years and you have not yet understood it. It's been a hundred years since that speech, and we still don't feel loved. And that's why, lords of the city, more than you think we're leaving. By luck, the more than a million people who arrived in Catalonia in the sixties heard it: Catalonia, a land of concentration. And they were the ones who started a school model that was supposed to be a social inclusion model, a model that made us a people's sun. And so they expressed it with pride in this Faristol, pride in being able to sort out the language in which thanks are expressed to the Catalan school. Deputies with Vidal Aragonés, of the CUP, with Raúl Moreno, of the PSC, with Jess González, of the commons, with the Ana Balsera, of Esquerra, and with our Judith Toronjo. And yes, in these last few years they have arrived, fortunately, 1_mio_i_mig more from Ciutadans to Catalonia, cities coming from the world with hundreds of languages of origin, and we want this to be their home, and this happens because they also embrace our culture and our language. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, I, as Catalan speaking, want to see my rights guaranteed. Why exactly who do you represent in the Parliament of Catalonia? The Russians? Or do they represent us in Catalan? I believe that you represent Catalans, and it is you who should go to the Catalan school and ensure that as a minimum seventy-five percent of classes in Catalan are complete, that the vehicle language is the Catalan language, that they vacate universities and do not allow one student to change the language of a whole class, that they vacate the syndicate and denounce that we only have a set of feelings in Catalan in our country. I want you to fight for my rights, too. I don't want to do twenty-five kilometers with my kids to go to see Disney's last version in Catalan; I want my aunt to come, who's already got ninety-five miles, when she goes to a notary giving her the Catalan script, and I want her to go right to a day center and she can express herself in Catalan – we have right to wrap her up in Catalan. Belgium, Switzerland, all European countries that have a linguistic community like ours have these languages as official languages of the state. And you know why? To protect and guarantee these languages. But you have a fight, and you want my mother tongue to be treated like an accent. Mirin, we want you to pick up the Catalan school, because it's based on a model that doesn't segregate by language. We're a people's sun, let's not separate people from the idiom they're talking about at home. We want everyone to have equal opportunities, that the person who doesn't have català as his own language or who doesn't speak feels his own. The parents, the society delegate to the masters the power to decide whether to start reading P5 or what course they will learn the squares; we do not do it either by the parents or by the courts. And, therefore, it is also the masters who decide who is the linguistic model of each centre, according to the sociolinguistic reality of each territory of the country. That's linguistic immersion, gentlemen. All our support for all the masters and all the educational community. Counselor, at his side also for the duration of all the actions necessary to assume the responsibility of the masters of our country in defending our model of school; this is what we must preserve. Because the school model that doesn't secrete is a model that guarantees the social cohesion of our country, which, as Aznar has already announced, is what can destroy. And that's the only one you want here. And we won't allow it. And we were all present in this room, except for you and the ultra-right, who were guarantors of this model of schooling and non-segregation. That's why we're asking the Socialist Party not to leave now. All to one for school in català! We'll see each other on the spot! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.213.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Ana Balsera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.214.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to you all, a good one already, counselor. On the motion for a debate, concerning the application of the judgment of the High Court of Justice of Catalonia establishing the twenty-i-five percent of the classes in castle, from the Republican Left of Catalonia we want to make some considerations. In the first place, the total and profound disconnection on the Catalan society, the Catalan language and the Catalan schools by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans should be recorded again. And what's worse: his political strategy based on chrism and lying. You always have the flag of antiticatalanism in the first place. And vigilante, because they have to apologize, they have to apologize, like when their party expression promoted lynching against teachers with false accusations and another leader of their party had to come out to say that it had been a mistake. And that's what his strategy is: you misrepresent the facts to generate debate and try to get someone to listen to them; but, well, they've already seen that it doesn't work, after thirty-six. The second consideration is about the incursion of Spanish justice. And we want to remember that the competence for legislative activity – it is to say, for the promulgation of laws and also to establish the educational model – is attributed to the legislative power; it is to say, to this chamber and not to the courts. Therefore, the educated model we have to decide in this hemisphere among all of us and not with the Lords with the toga. Because these gentlemen with a toga, if they want to decide, that they are present at the elections. Proud of the judiciary's interference with legislative power and enforcement power – prou. And you, lords of Ciutadans, don't want to win the courts who don't know how to win the ballot boxes. [[Some applause.]] On the judgment of the Supreme Court of Catalonia, which we have seen confirmed by the Supreme Court, of the twenty-i-five_per_cent of Spanish language classes, then is that seventy-five_per_cent of the classes, right? They're supposed to be in Catalan, and that's not it. If not, here at the side we have the subway, line 1, Arc de Triomf, the red line, and they can go up to Santa Coloma and Fondo, for one band, or up to Bellvitge, for the other, and see that they do not find the seventy-five_per_cent in any case. In fact, a few days ago, at the square of the village of my city, of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, the Hector, the Queralt and the Vinyet, which are three Colomencs and Colomencs, of twelve years old, I was told that all three have the castle of mother tongue..., there, the català - I forgive -, but that to the school is related only, the Queralt, with three companies in català; all the rest, while their mother tongue is the català, to the school is related to everyone, all around, in the castle. Just, I repeat, the Queralt is related to three companies in Catalan. And that's the reality. And about linguistic immersion, it's an integrative model, I've said it a lot of times in this hemisphere, and I said it myself. And it's that, thanks to this model, many generations coming from outside Catalonia speak the same language. In fact, and I have said it again and I will repeat it again, it was a model that was fought for Andalusian families, for extreme families, for Galician families, families like my own, who came to Santa Coloma de Gramenet and fought, and very much, and claimed because their children had a future plethora of opportunities. And this model was linguistic immersion. So, full of lies. In fact, also, a few weeks ago, we listened here, in this Faristol, as the deputy Martin Blanco expressed that to look for school for his children he had gone to the French High School, because it was the only opportunity that his children could study not only in Catalan but in Castle and in a third language, right? , because he said that our education system, that our model is monolingual. So look, this is definitely fake and, above all, it's a total disconnection of how the Catalan public school works. I have attended the Jaume Salvatella School, which is a public school in the slum of Singuerlin; for whom I do not know, Singuerlin is a slum of Santa Coloma de Gramenet. Then I went to the Puig Castellar Institute, which is also a public school of the same barri. And I, like most of my classmates, had a Castilian mother tongue, and we ended up second in Catalan, English, and French speaking baccalaureate. And I look, I look, I talk these four languages, and I went to public school. I don't want to go to French High School, I recommend it too. And that... so, full of lies (Applause), viscose the public school in català, viscose our educational model and viscose our teachers. And lastly, he did want to make a reference to the PSC, because we listened today that, in fact, the president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group said that they did not want to do politics with language, didn't they? But you have made statements and traded part of this young man with Citizens; therefore, you have entered his game. We just wanted to warn you in this sense. Therefore, we also animemos, the socialist companies and all the rest, to participate in this debate at the event, mobilization of the school in catalá promoted by Som Escola, in order to defend the linguistic immersion and our model of Catalan school. We'll see you on the street! Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.215.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.216.0	Well, ladies and gentlemen, we tabled a motion of fifteen points. The PSC has tabled ten amendments. For Mrs Balsera's peace of mind, we have only accepted one. For Mrs Balsera's peace of mind, the amendments proposed to us by the SGP were, therefore, expressly designed not to have us approve of anything; you will see that in the votes. They are..., they argue the question that « is that they are wrong, it is a question of language. Like those of Podemos: "No, it is a matter of which you... do not want to align with the fulfilment of the rights that the sentence recognizes, so as not to fight if you wish to think that you are your partners in a tripartite future. And that's why you have to be in equidistance and alter..., with your amendments altered the meaning. It was not a question of language, it was a question of substance, because its amendments did not alter the words, they altered the meaning. And, therefore, we have not been able to admit them. I ask you to help – help – the families and citizens of Catalonia who want their rights respected. Don't think so much about today and think more about the future; don't think about the day of Moncloa, the day of the tripartite or future pacts and think about the future of all citizens. To finish, Junts per Catalunya – it has made me laugh, this is quite common here – has given a list of adapts, integrateds, people who supposedly... Well, then, they have integrated into the identity concept of good Catalan. In this, I will tell you that there is a song from El Bicho that makes me very graceful, which says: "And I, being one of the bad, would like to be one of the good. Well, look, if the good guys are you, I'd rather remain the bad guys. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.217.0	Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.218.0	Yes; President, for a very clear and sensitive allusion– you spoke before the education... – that Mrs Balsera made to my intervention, that I do not know if it was very precise what she said, but, in any case, a very clear allusion to a familiar aspect that interests me to have the opportunity to clarify.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.219.0	So, since you didn't intervene in this young man, I'm giving him thirty-seconds because you're doing this intervention for allusions. [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Crits of "Long live the president! Greetings.]] You don't make me regret it, please. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.220.0	Well, I can pass; but no, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.221.0	But I could pass. For this, take advantage of them, take advantage of the thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.222.0	...for his magnanimity. I thank you, Madam President. What Mrs. Balsera says is not necessary. What I explained on one occasion was that I was surprised, when I had to look at schools for my children... to say that the school of my children is a wonderful school, with some extraordinary teachers. But what I said was that I was very surprised to have to go to the French High School – that one of the visits I made was to the French High School – because the school principal explained to me something as simple as the following: "How are we aware of the importance of mother tongue, here at the French High School we do something that do not make other schools in Catalonia, that is to do classes in the mother tongue of children. One thing as simple as that, which is what we ask: that the Spanish speaking children also have assignments in their mother tongue. I know that for you, with your ultranationalist conception of reality, it still has to be in Catalan. And for you, who is also from Santa Coloma and is always proud to have Spanish speaking couples, it is quite normal to give up the language of your parents. Not for me. I want my children. [[remorse of the voice]] continue to have the language of your peers, simply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.223.0	Thank you, Mr. Martín Blanco. Thirty-seconds longer than the story. All right, thank you. We suspend the session until two-quarters of four. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.224.0	Good afternoon. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the strengthening and transformation of the health system]] [[302-00069/13]] Let us resume the session on the seventh item on the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into the strengthening and transformation of the health system, which was set up by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. And you have the word, to give her the presentation, the deputy lady assumes Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.225.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Actually, when we put up this inquiry... I'm sorry, I'll start with something else. I will begin by apologizing to Councillor Argimon, who this late cannot be here today – he has communicated it to me. I wouldn't want anyone to think that they wouldn't listen to me, which I don't doubt, but they simply couldn't, and so on, the apology. But it's true that when we presented this inquiry, which talked a lot about the day-to-day operation of the health services, we were at a time when I didn't think that... we knew we could, huh? But fifteen days later... I've seen the data from this morning, haven't I? , that we had a record number of contagions..., so really the situation is worrying. And, therefore, I also wanted to do something about it. Just as we have also commented this morning on the pressure that we are already having primary care or that you are already having primary care, and hope a little that we have all put, also, in the vaccination, both of the infants and of the third doses. Basically to the inquiry we set up – and the motion went this way –..., it was trying to approach this daily operation of the Catalonian health system, where every time all accessibility to the system was made more difficult. One day at a time, we say, the professionals suffer, the citizenry suffers – when you write to My Greeting and answer: "It is not possible for us to attend your face-to-face visit. And, therefore, we had the feeling that many times..., or that we are trying to abandon the public system important fringes of the population, that end up in the private insurance system, looking for quickness or the answer, huh? Because many times that's what we can't give them from the public system. Therefore, one of the things that we have raised in this young man is to recover the visits in person, but above all, to strengthen much the primary attention. As you know, at the first point of this motion we have planned to recover that motion that we have..., or that motion for a resolution that the eighty-five per cent of this Parliament voted around twenty-six points that they were trying to define..., immediate actions, also future, but also governance of the postcovid system. And, therefore, the reinforcement of primary care, the twenty-five percent of the premise that we all claim differently, but..., was also in that twenty-six point motion. Speaking of the twenty-five percent and the premise of primary care, I was told that in the assumptions there is a concern of the government that I don't know whether it's thanks to the UPC or thanks to the commons, which gives us 500_million the primary. But of course, it's not us, it's the hospital expenses. Clearly, I'm also surprised, because one of the things that also approached the youth is that the hospital centers have mechanisms to reduce waiting lists, to be able to address a plate of shock, also of the specific units of diagnosis and treatment of people who suffer from postcovid. In fact, what we say is, those 500_millions that aren't meant to be, hand them over to primary attention, but, well, the emena did it you and here it is, and it's already there. Therefore, the approach is to work on the basis of the agreement, of that agreement of twenty-six points; to incorporate in it also some themes that we think important, such as, for example, what I said to the inquiry..., that image of Salt, right? , of professionals who feel assaulted. If we improve face-to-face, we may also improve the relationship with the citizenry, and therefore... take care to lower the pressure and know what measures we can take in those centers that have an incidence of more important risk factors. And take care of the most vulnerable people. And here I want to thank an appreciation of Congresswoman Irene Negre, who I will then refer to the papers, because not all the great people are vulnerable nor all the vulnerable are great. And so, I really appreciate your appreciation of... that we don't more patiently add to vulnerable people with digital bretsa, that we don't just lose opportunities and not everyone has a net because they fix them... And, therefore, we need to improve the accessibility and usability of digital systems and make them accessible to everyone. We also saw yesterday, in matters of mental health, the importance of inequalities, and, above all, the importance of facilitating access to what can be all the services of the health system. I'll leave it here, President. And then I'll position it on the papers presented. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.226.0	Thank you very much. There is now the first word to defend the proposed statements, MP Irene Negre, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.227.0	Thank you very much, President. Before anything else, I would like to make a statement showing my support to the third secretary of the Bureau, Congressman Pau Juvillà. As we see, Pedro Sánchez promised us « to meet again and agree and it was water xirla, as we say to the Jew. [[Some applause.]] The thing that brought us is repression and more repression. I would also like to thank President Borrás for her defence of the rights of all Members of this House, with an education of disrespect and insults on the part of those who are experts in raising chickens and creating discord. The Members and Members must be worthy of the burden we bear and we must be respectful and educated. That said, I'm going into the subject we're dealing with. To thank MP Escarp for her predisposition, as always, accepting drafts and trading so as to smooth a motion that gives a good result and remains real. The Health Department has always striven for adequate accessibility of users to care services. There are 947 municipalities in Catalonia, 841 of which have primary care facilities. There are 792 local consultants, 53 of whom were operating before the pandemic and have not yet re-opened. Of these 53, 2 are temporarily closed for work or for transfer. Two thirds of the local consultants are located in municipalities with fewer than a thousand inhabitants, and more than fifty percent of the local consultants are located less than twenty minutes from their reference CAP. It is also important to emphasize that the only care centres that have not been re-opened at present are local consultants in which they cannot enable the two circuits – covid and non-covid – to serve people safely. Since the Department of Health is old for professionals working in this world and fan of the health system of Catalonia an integrated public health system, centered on the person and open to their participation. Counselor Argimon has already explained in this Ple that they would appreciate the possibility of creating an organ that will be used by the health professionals, gathering the proposal of the College of Metges of Barcelona. In flashing the pandemic, mechanisms of collaboration and coordination were activated with the joints that are working correctly, and you can still bet to continue working in this way. For what it does to the covid certificates, it means that 5,3 million certificates have been downloaded from the 21st of November until 9th of December. Also, which guarantees absolute data protection and will be old, as always, to give response to the needs of all and every user. It will also ensure a support system for the most vulnerable. And, said all this, I cannot finish my intervention without asking, once more, the PSC Group and the commons, since they govern together in Madrid, which intercede to end the tax policy. Because all these requests for salvation – all of them – involve economic resources, and despite the fact that excellent management has been done since the Health Department, with the approximately 18,000_million euros of tax dollars, how many things we could not improve. And, in addition, they press for the covid fund proposed for the Junts for Catalonia to the assumptions of the State in question and approved to the Congress of Deputies to be carried out and that the "progressive government does what it has approved and completes paying the 1,600_million euros that are close to it in Catalonia". For salvation, for language, for culture, for teaching, for social rights, independence is urgently needed. They care about the subjects, and they won't pass. The people voted independence. Unite forces, deputies and independent deputies. Time is gold, and sheep is beautiful, loses us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.228.0	Then you have the word, on behalf of the Republican Esquerra Group... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I had a point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So I was aiming for Juli Fernández. Mrs Ángeles Llive will intervene.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.229.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon to everyone. First of all, thank the PSC for its willingness to trade some points and accept the items. We want to reaffirm ourselves in the compromise that we acquired at the general policy debate with the approval of the proposal for a resolution negotiated in the field of salvation. In fact, it goes in the same line of the reinforcement plan to primary care: yes to shared governance; yes to consensus with professionals; yes to proposals and actions that come directly from the collections affected by our decisions. This is also the democratic transformation. Therefore, our bet is directly related to the Professional Dialeg Forum started in 2018. We already have the organ, we already have the structure to make decisions. That's why we're betting for the reactivation of this space, for the phase two dam, which consists of operating the large lines of work agreed upon at the time. This is our dialog table, with the values that subscribe to it: transparency, rigour and accountability. Everyone knows that, for the Republican Left, territorial equality of opportunity is a basic pillar of our political action. Everyone has to be able to choose where he lives, without this producing negative results in his vital project. Everyone has to live wherever they want, without having limited access to the service. This impacts directly on the health system. We also vote in favour of it with absolute conviction that it is one of the keys to ensuring the same access regardless of the village or city where you reside. This will is demonstrated when we contrast with data: we currently have 90.1_per_cent of the local consultants, and the ones that are not are because practically in all cases they do not have the possibility to create different circuits of non-cow and covid. We've put the security of the people who access our health care system first, yes, and we'll do it again. I want to put up with a moment to make a huge reassessment of all the people who work in the field of salvation – all of them. If these people work to the liking and in good condition, the attention to the citizenry certainly improves. And, therefore, it is an important challenge to act and make them better, more recognizable, more empowered. And that's, without a doubt, social justice. We cannot help wondering where the PSC's responsibility is when it demands questions, which we also defend, with chronic underfunding by the Spanish State. The way we move forward and face the difficult situation we are experiencing is by taking responsibility for all the competent institutions. The joints do it, the government and the councilman do it. And the Spanish State? We're still waiting? Just this intervention by a monogram of mental salvation, aware that it has been a key element in the last few days. Full attention, in this sense, to the professionals who are painting it, from a long time ago, from the first line. That's why we have resources, that's why we plan actions, but we need more. I also want to take advantage of my intervention to address a thank you to the entire local world. Thanks to his involvement and work we have been able to apply most of the measures. So I was able to find out with the director of Salut in the municipal government of Caldes de Montbui when the pandemic broke out. The motion specifies the need for coordination with the local world. I can't agree more. From the municipalities we have had direct communication with the CAPs and the rest of the health centres, facing the pandemic of covid-19. I'm done. Technology has played a key role in the past few months and we see it as a key element in further improving and exploring measures that make the tool more accessible to all. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Time's up... [[The joker laughs.]] Yes to put the resources to ensure the health system we want: public, universal and quality. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.230.0	After the turn of defense of the papers presented, has now the word, to fix his position, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mrs María Elisa García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.231.0	Thank you, Madam President. Gentlemen of the PSC, a small motion has been tabled by you. I will not plagiarize one of those phrases..., the most repeated in this Parliament every time an initiative with this content is presented, the one that speaks of the toast to the sun. A whole host of proposals, some already voted, others of common sense and others simply utopian at the time we find ourselves, of scarcity of resources and of health personnel thanks to the separatist priorities of the Government, because money does exist, but for health..., that is not so much. But we're going in parts. With regard to resolution 120/XIV, you know that we voted in favour of many proposals and others seemed quite decaffeinated, despite the fact that they were adopted. Decafeinadas..., where efforts were being made to delay the launch of the initiative, where the Government – even the PSC supporting it – was shielding itself in the pandemic in order not to restore certain services. Open a dialogue and communication channels with the municipalities. Members of Parliament who repeat their term of office over and over again and who have been part of the Government, how can they justify that there is no longer an efficient channel of communication and debate for solving problems in an area as important to the Catalan population as health? They can't justify it. And meanwhile, healing bleeds. Re-opening primary care centres and re-establishing care activities. This is particularly gratifying to us, Mrs Escarp, because your group voted against when VOX presented it to the Committee on Institutional Affairs. We could have won a few months on this initiative, but you, gentlemen of the PSC, the health of Catalans matters as much as the Government does, that is, nothing. They have not yet understood that health is the first thing and that it should go beyond its sectarianism. Fortunately for the citizens, in VOX we are clear and will vote in favour of any initiative that, in our opinion, improves the lives of Catalans, even if it is presented by the Palm Party of the Government in which you have become. [[Widow's remorse.]] Health care. Look, since my training, we have condemned any kind of assault on healthcare professionals by patients or family members. But, in the same way, we condemn with even more cruelness the situation of abuse and helplessness in which health professionals have been found by the public administration, since it is the Generalitat itself abusing the professional collective, a group as necessary and important as vulnerable to attend to moral convictions at the cost of its capacity to sacrifice and surrender, which has led them to bear the consequences of a management and a discharge of functions by the Government. And finally, utopia. Expand the primary care centers with more staff – we don't know where they're going to come from – to help older people to introduce them into the digital network of the Generalitat – La Meva Salut –, poorly designed, with poor evolution and suboptimal results that prove to be perfectly aligned with the levels of incompetence of the Government. Gentlemen of the PSC, in this context in which we are, with the Government drifting, more concerned with internal research than with the well-being of Catalans, do you think that there is any possibility that any of these proposals will be carried out? And please, Mrs. Escarp, don't use that mantra you've been using here for a while, saying you're defending Catalan health and health care. If his group or any other member of this Government had defended him, neither Catalan health nor health professionals would be in the situation they are in right now. Our group will vote in favour of many of its initiatives, but the truth is that without any hope. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.232.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature, the Member of Parliament, Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.233.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. When we get the young lady... I think everyone can agree that most of us share all the points, that is... as we always do, that we talk about the transformation of the health system, but here there are few elements of the transformation of the health system, beyond the need to establish a debate with all the actors involved about how we deal, right? The health system we have. A health system that has been running for many years, a health system that comes from false consent established years ago, when the LOSC was approved in this country, and has facilitated a public-private system, or concertation, or mixed management. A system that has always prioritized hospital care over primary and community care, and in which now, no? After a pandemic and seeing how the health system has worked and, above all, the need to detect cases or the comprehensive approach to people's health, we agree– or it seems that there is someone who has – that primary and community care really needs to be at the centre, and therefore that there is an absolute reformulation of the health system in which primary and community care is actually at the centre, but that it also addresses this public and private network that makes taxation difficult, but that there has also been a doorway to many or many cases of corruption, and therefore also a lack of confidence in the people's public management, but also, at the same time, to the appropriate health system. Therefore, one of the main elements in the current situation in which we are now, which Mrs Escarp gave, where we are seeing that the situation of the contagious now is basically seen with the pressure to primary care, is not to make the mistakes as in previous days, that the primary care does the alerts of what was going on but that it was not reacting politically until the pressure was at the hospital. And so now the primary attention is saying: "We have a problem with the infections. So, so, we're acting now, right? And, therefore, we put the tools at the top of the healthcare professionals, above all the primary care, to give response to this situation, and now we put the tools to it because the facefulness is recovered, because the CAPs re-emerged and, therefore, it is possible to do the work in much better conditions. Why, in the background, images like what Congresswoman Escarp was explaining on the day of the inquiry, and as we all saw on TV3, from Salt, they're not new, are they? We also need to be able to interpret that they respond to a climate created by political decisions, CAP closures and to put down barriers so that the people can access their meth or attention to salvation. And so that's what makes it more difficult every time to hear what's going on and why people, isn't it? It's not at the moment you need it. Therefore, it is necessary to re-open primary care centres, but also to give tools. And, above all, I don't think I'm stigmatizing either. Because TV3 was talking about the example of Salt, but that goes to other places, and curiously we always talk about Salt, when we talk about this type of events or actions, and therefore stigmatizing a sector of the population in a very clear way. And, as I said, the climate created in response to political decisions taken. And one that we would have to ask ourselves – and tomorrow to the question that we would ask the counselor about more – has to be seen as the Health Department, at certain times or with certain actions, seems to delegate its responsibility in guaranteeing the rights of professionals, generating more division between professionals and users. And I'm referring to these satisfaction questions that they do, which seem more like the satisfaction question when one goes to a hotel to spend the night than when one goes to a primary care centre, where, among others, one wonders if "it would come back to this centre, when with this type of question it is to start it to the professional and not to assume it as a department or as the Catalan Institute of Health – you ask that, as I say, they seem more like girls of a customer relationship than not from whom to guarantee rights to the population. Therefore, in this sense, the department has a responsibility and has to assume it, and I cannot delegate it to the workers, generating tools that they do is to divide between workers and users. Finally, salvation is one of the main concerns of the population at these times, and primary care is not the main gateway, especially for the most vulnerable group. It is necessary to continue to provide it with the necessary resources. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.234.0	Mr David Cid has the word now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Common People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.235.0	Thank you, President. I think it's a debate, about the Catalan health system, that we haven't talked enough, and I think our position is clear too. That is to say, we clearly find that there are three fronts that the Catalan health system has: one has to see with the model and the management model; one, obviously, has to see also with resources, and the other has to see with the concrete policies that are decided on the department, right? The deputy of Junts per Catalunya, the Black lady, spoke about the resources that the Salvation Department needs in this case. And we agree, it certainly needs more resources, but maybe the first thing because it has more resources is that... those resources that come in, don't block them. Because, of course, this is contradictory with presenting a veto according to the general assumptions of the State. Because more than 500_million euros more are coming for VAT, the third additional provision, more than 1,600_millions financed for the deficit, and then, of course, it does not cease to be a contradiction that you put forward ideas, when in reality what you want is to veto the assumptions. And, plus, I'll tell you – and I'll tell you with all my peace and quiet, and, plus, that's what I think, I've said it several times –..., look, the person in Catalonia who wanted the most to take advantage of the general assumptions of the State, you know who it is? The Councillor of Economy, the Lord Turned, because, if not, the numbers of the Generality's premise, which we have granted and which we have negotiated and which we are not satisfied... I also have the feeling that sometimes – I don't know, depending on the day –..., I don't know if they're happy or not happy about what we're supposed to have. We are very happy and happy that Catalonia has assumptions, and, moreover, I think we have a good agreement, also worked with the Department of Economics, and we are very satisfied with the agreement that we have reached, aren't we? And Mrs Escarp also talked about it: in the end, too, when we talk about more resources of the primary school, about somewhere to come out. And, in the end, what you're saying is that we have to stick to this twenty-i-five_per_cent; not that there are more resources, that also, for the Health Department, but that the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the assumption has to stick to..., right? , or it has to stand to get to this twenty-i-five_per_cent of the global health premise that is destined for the primary. And it's true. We certainly don't get there, but we have managed to get money from the hospital that goes to primary school, for example, to get the public dentist out of the way, or even because there are more resources because those nether workers who didn't receive the covid gratification pay, although they were essential staff, can collect it. And I think that's good news; it's probably not enough, but it's more than nothing. I'm telling you why you were willing to vote on the assumption for a change of heart, huh? And, so... well, I'm sure the lessons that we can learn about in the press, so... when someone is available – I also told the Health Commission that we did –... when you're willing to vote for the press for free, so... sure if we've pushed everyone and everyone else we've done more than when you say you want to vote for the press for a change of heart, right? I think people certainly need and dependable. And we're worried too... and we're getting into other things... we've talked about resources and we need to talk about management. I believe that some of the situations that we have experienced lately certainly do not generate and rely on. And I think that, for example, we didn't have this..., we didn't have this security and reliability with the security and reliability of the security. I think that what happened... I think it was predictable that there was a volume of discharges like there was, and I think that things... in fact, I think that the same counselor recognized that it could be better, right? And now we've moved it too. I don't think there's enough, with recommendations, or I think we need to be clearer about what we're moving to the city, for example, when there are close contact situations. I think there's a lot of pandemic, and now there's some kind of dispersion about what happens if you're a close contact, right? Depending on what variety, if there is to be quarantine or no quarantine... I think we need major certainly, most reliable, and give clear messages to the citizenry, and do not recommend that, in the end, I also believe that logically, the fruit of this pandemic fatigue..., many times these recommendations fall into a broken bag, don't you? I'd say my avia. And then there are two elements, for us, of the motion, which we will vote in favour. I also think it's a minor's youth or that it finds elements that are essential, don't you? First, to recover this presence at the primary care centers. Obviously, if the pandemic situation allows it, but I think that the primary can't shut down or we can't..., or the citizenry can't have the feeling that it's a gimpane, access its meth or its headmistress. And that's happening, and it can cause complex situations like what we've experienced in Salt and other municipalities. And the other, above all, there's a lot of people, from a point of view, right? ... that it has situations of vulnerability, that it is already economic, that it is even access to the new technologies..., that it has difficulties, therefore, to access the public health system. And, therefore, we need to find a way to make it compatible and to guarantee this access to primary care, which is the color of the system and which is fundamental to this. Thank you very much. And, as I said, we'll give support to the young man.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.236.0	On behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Grau has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.237.0	Good afternoon. Thank you. Well, yesterday, in this rostrum, I gave them my word and the word of the entire Citizen Group that for us people would always be the first and that for us would not stay to try to solve the bloodiest problems that this land is experiencing. That's why the announcement that we're voting for this young man, even though he doesn't give us any special illusion. It seems right to us, it seems insufficient to us, it seems disappointing to us, and, as has been said here, it also seems to us a program of minims. It has to be said that when the Socialist Group talks about sanitation, in principle we don't... it seems that we can agree on many things, but we are much more pleased with what they say than the one they do, and, above all, we are more pleased with what they say before we accept ideas, therefore, from government groups, which systematically draw water into the living, lower all the initials, solve them much more quickly, and, well, resources don't appear at all. One might think that in this there is an indefatigable good faith, an attempt, therefore, on the part of the Socialist Group to manage the while, to solve the day by day, on such an alarming issue as sanitation. But, of course, when you see what you have in front of you and you see some interventions that you feel here, you say: "Home, I don't know where you get the faith in the government group that a rave imports Catalan sanitation. Here the company of the commons already remembered, surely, that, man, has noses pass all day demanding the money and then block..., or continue, to pass ahead the independence agenda – as always, the cursed independence agenda – before the interests of the people, and, if necessary, veto some assumptions for ideological reasons, even though objectively there are some money that are very lacking for the Catalan sanitation. But... anyway. To MP Irene Negre – who I am going to address in her favourite Catalan language, Spanish –..., I think she has given us a magnificent example of infra-parliamentarism and where the shots go. Let's see, I think it is clear – it has become clear here – that independence is a disease, it is a political disease that is ending Catalonia. You don't like Catalonia and you don't like to rule it. What they want is to load it. And you are happier..., you would be much happier with a new 155, or even if you prospered some ideas of abolishing Catalan autonomy, because then you would be freed from the heavy burden of trying to rule, of trying to bring this land forward, of trying to fix the problems. When you come to a health debate to say ‘You will not pass and say that independence is the solution of all these mashed-up things that are due to your mismanagement, long before the coward, because you started to cut cruelly in 2012 and gave you equal leave many people at the feet of the horses, that, as you have been reminded here, the one that can go to the private and the one that does not die of disgust... Finally, then, as the chairman of my parliamentary group told you this morning, and I remind you this afternoon, if you put yourself this way, because you will have to put a spirit of Ermua in every school, in every hospital, in every session of this Parliament and in every corner of this earth; a spirit of Ermua so that every Catalan who has a point of decency, of collective feeling, of concern for the future of this country, seek the reunion and help us to dislocate them as soon as possible and to end their disgovernment. This country will not lift its head, nor Catalonia, nor Spain, nor anyone, as long as you remain in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.238.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, has the word Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.239.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I also want to thank the group proposing this young man. It doesn't seem incomplete to me. It's true that it seems to me that there are things that are unrealizable, especially because we've been asking them for a long time. And I don't know if it's happening to the rest of the Members here either, but I have the feeling that we're all talking and we're claiming the same demands. Not only in this area, but also in others, but perhaps in this, so the situation is more urgent and more bloody. And, in fact, Mrs Escarp's own Member, who is here in the Chamber, rejected some proposals which were put forward in the general policy debate, which also came from other legislatures, proposals which we have also debated and voted for and approved in the Committee on Health, which we also discussed with the Councillor Argimon on those occasions, so that we have not had the opportunity for the Committee on Health, but now we have nothing to do with the subject of the assumptions, but it seems that we cannot fix them. Why? Because we don't have resources. That's it. And we have some assumptions, and, while it's true that they have increased, they are assumptions that they have a high dependence on other administrations, whether they come from the European Union or from the Congress. Therefore, I am concerned... – they come from the State. I am concerned about this issue, because, if with this situation that we are living in a pandemic, we are unable to allocate resources that are likely to address all the effects and deficiencies that we have on public health in Catalonia, so I don't know how we will do it afterwards, honestly. There's things in here that I'm backing this guy back from wearing the vest, right? , from the covid. For example, in point 3, you have accepted a draft, you have made a compromise with the Republican Left and Junctions for Catalonia that adds..., when you talk about reopening the centers and reestablishing the times we had before the pandemic, so you speak precisely of this, right? I want you to get back those services and those consulting services that were shut down from the pandemic. Okay. I ask, what happened to those who had been locked up before? Because we have a detail situation that we haven't been able to recover yet. And, for example, we have populations where they don't have CUP, where they can't move, they don't have the CAP open for twenty-four hours... This still gets worse if we talk, for example, about people with reduced mobility, who can't move to the primary care center they have more. And, therefore, what we are asking is not only to be on hold of what has been shut down from the basket, but also to try to recover those services that we had before the pandemic and before the retailing – again to recover them. It is important, the subject of face-to-face; we have spoken to the Health Committee many times. Today... it's true, now we're about to end up in the on-the-spot, if we're not already, because today's data is very worrying, and, in fact, we've met with the counselor to explain it to us. It said that we are in a very critical situation, and therefore, it is true that the recommendations are not to go to the primary care center and do everything by sending, so, other channels, such as the website of My Greeting or good phone call. But it is true that sometimes this remains short, especially in people, I insist, that they have difficulties in accessing these services in a telematic way, large people who may have access to them, but they don't know well how it works... And, therefore, I think it is important to be able to recover that presence also at times like this, when we are in the on-the-spot earthquake, but we have to try, in some way, to make some priorities. And so, these people who need face-to-face and who need health service providers to be more clean, so... we'd have to think about how to do it because they can have this service. I insist that it costs a lot in small towns, with large people, with people who have reduced mobility problems. And it's a topic we haven't talked about a lot, enough, but we can't find a solution. And, therefore, from here, I am calling on Councillor Argimon, even though there can be no professional issues, but obviously I am aware that he will surely follow the intervention. He said that we have these problems that are structural, that we have been flushing them for more than two years, and the proof of that is, for example, all the waves that we had in the previous legislature, precoveted. Primary care workers, family doctors, pediatricians, SEM workers, North Metropolitan, rebellion of primary care... That is, we have suffered a lot of strikes from workers, who can no longer. There is a point in the motion that calls for precisely ending temporality and precariousness. And it seems to me that it is essential, because many times, and especially in recent times, we remember and thank and congratulate the work of the health workers, who are there on the front line, but it is not enough only with recognition and with gratitude and with words. And therefore, we need facts. I think they're living in a serious, very serious situation. And, therefore, it is very important also, especially in view of that influenza vaccination campaign, which is also mentioned in this motion, which we are already in motion and which, therefore, we need to redouble our efforts..., which is why I also told Counsellor Argimon the other day that we need to welcome all those healthcare professionals who come from other parts of Spain precisely to cover those deficits that we have in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.240.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the deputy Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.241.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, thank Congresswoman Irene Negre, the parliamentary groups of Esquerra Republicana and Junts for Catalonia for the good disposition in the papers they have presented, and, therefore, for being able to arrive again at a text of consensus. Let's go; let's go, if VOX doesn't like our young man. All right. I'm telling you... [[Some applause.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'll tell you, Mrs. García Fuster. Miri, "palmera no –"palmera no –; in any case, a lady of the PSC proud of being a dona and proud of being socialist. I'm telling you because... [[Greetings.]] I say that because the finishes with me please me, as do many women of this Ple. But, anyway, it's his option. This is a young man. It can be fair, not fair... I gratify the favorable positions of some groups as well. There was a time when it looked like a contest that made her bigger. No, no, She is a young man who is again trying to claim policies of salvation that must be part of the social, professional and political consensus. And this is the option that we defend, that we defend and that we continue to defend. It's very important to have the infrastructure, Mrs. Black, that's true, but we also need professionals from among, that these professionals are well paid and, in any case, regain facefulness and that the city also feels attached – and that's important. You're talking about infra-financing, but... because one thing is infra-financing, which I've always said we share, and the other is the political will and the political will of the Government of the Generality to dispose and put a higher percentage of the Generality's assumption to Greet. And that's strictly dependent on an independent government, because the progressive government has put up 3,000 to fight the coven in this country; so... I don't think I can make any adjectives to the governments. In any case, political will is on the rise, and it does not seem that salvation at some point is the priority of this government. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.242.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, once the next item on the order of the day is substantial. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the preservation of rights in the framework of European institutions]] [[302-00073/13]] The point of the order of the day is the motion following the question to the Government on the preservation of rights in the framework of the European institutions. It was introduced by the Joint Parliamentary Group for Catalonia. And, to expose it, has the word of Mr. Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.243.0	Thank you, President. Since this young man is talking about the European perspective of human rights, I would like to start with a previa, which is condemning and regretting the murder of Garibe Gezer, only six days ago, in a Turkish prison. It's a Kurdish political prey that wore months I feel tortured, I feel vexed, I feel raped, and that, finally, six days ago she appeared dead. There is something more that can be done than denounce and condemn this assassination, and it is not to give any government or support to any government that you consider to be a friend of the Turkish government. The HDP Assembly of Dones said that the only culprit for this death was the Erdogan Government, and therefore our homage, the victory. Biji Kurdistan! [[Greetings.]] That said, about the future of language in Europe, I would like to begin by saying that from Junts to Catalonia we mourn and almost martyr us as we use language in this hemisphere some parliamentary groups. It's a very subjective matter, because it's the mother tongue, it's the proper language; but there's not much to do with this, there's something else, we can do something more so that our speech is more complex and more elaborate. I like to explain that when I was a little girl, I had a lot of experience with my mother. My mother is hidden in the year 30, and she explained that when she started the school, the Franco school..., she has a great deal of physical violence that she suffered the second day of school, because when they asked her who Jesus' father was, she said, "Saint Josep and she got a buffet. He went back to say, "Saint Josep, he dropped another buffet, and she simply has the record that he went home and didn't understand why they had attacked him. Because she had it at home, and so when they said it was "San José..., she simply didn't have that knowledge. And from this traumatic experience, with the linguistic imposition... maybe my mother could have had another relationship with the languages, and, in change, she's a person who deeply values the languages. He is a person who has taught us to appreciate Spanish literature in Spanish, obviously, but French in French, Italian in Italy and, obviously, Catalan in Catalan. And, therefore, we have a lot of innerity that esteeming a language is esteeming them all, but hating one is hating them all, too. And when I say that we are martyred by a few speeches that we have heard here... it's that I'm stunned to think of what model of school you should have at your head, if the way in which the defense would not allow you to keep up with the class of either ESO or Prime Minister of this country, who would have expelled you to the second intervention you've made. What model of school can you propose, if to defend it you have to use the speech of hate, the speech of rebuy to a language? And she's my mother, too, huh? , which says that we all carry a poet inside, and that Auden says to him that "the poets are no more than the people who consider themselves to be the words. And if we agree that, effectively, we all have a poet in it, it would be very interesting if we tried to estimate our languages, and all the languages. And as politics does it or does it fan you, as Joan Fuster said, today precisely what we say is which politics we can do. So, for example, defend the European charter of languages, which is what we are saying today. And what we're proposing is nothing more than denouncing that when the Spanish state defends a judgment against immersion, it's not fulfilling the international treaties it's defended. And what to defend the office... is to say, that we can express ourselves in Catalan to the European institutions – in Catalan, we're talking, eh? , a European language with more than 10 million speakers –......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And, at the same time, we will denounce this obstructive attitude that up to seven times has caused the Spanish governments of all color to prevent the language from being official, and the same for what it does to European legislation, for what it does to plataforms. And since we, together for Catalonia, always pretend that the rights are all for everyone and everything, we congratulate ourselves that this time organised civil society has been loving, and therefore, all that we defend in Europe, all that we defend for Kurdistan, so obviously we defend it for Catalonia. And we like that this dissipation we mobilize – the 18th – and we follow a lot for the language. But there is not enough – there is not enough. This Parliament and this Government must do much more than they do so long as the teachers, the teachers, the whole educational community, do what they do best, that it is to educate our children in the future, and that in the very hemicicle, in the hemicicle of this Parliament many years ago, it is not again to feel the beasts that have touched us during these two days. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.244.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.245.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Dalmases, well, for not wanting to feel beasts..., compare the situation of Catalonia to that of Kurdistan, god-in-law, you stayed to the liking, huh? But, go on, beyond that, which is a relatively common thing in the world of the nationalist world, I want to remind you of some things about linguistics. You gave the other day in your inquiry something that shows up to what point you completely ignore the story, completely ignore who was the story of Spain. That's what I'm saying... it's already in Catalan, in castle or in the language that it is, because you were talking the other day about "the story of Spain is the story of the struggle against the Catalan language since 1714, with the Count of Olivares, who was in charge of applying the New Plant Decree. Go on, I think this is the demonstration that you are the advanced student of the New History Institute. Go away, it's... Mr Dalmases, it's the transcription that was done in Parliament, and therefore, it's exactly what you said. The Count-Duke of Olivares, who died in 1645, applied the Decree of New Plant, which is of the principles of the eighteenth century – 1713, 1714– ; therefore... Well, it is something that denotes up to what point you are unaware of the history of Spain and the history of Catalonia. From this point of view, I think it is important to say to what extent Catalans have been fundamental in the creation of history and the Spanish nation, unlike what was said the other day by Congressman Castillo, who said that Spain did not exist as a nation. Well, I would remind you of great historical figures such as Antoni de Capmany, Llàtzer de Dou and other Catalans who have been fundamental in the formation of the national history of Spain, of the Spanish nation, not to mention myths, of course, such as that of the Timbaler del Bruc or that of Agustina de Saragossa – Agustina de Aragón –, well, called « Agustina de Aragón, but, in any case, Catalan of birth. And I would also remind you of important issues. There have been great Catalans, like Bonaventura Carles Aribau, like Milà i Fontanals, like other great proceres of Catalan culture, who have been the conformers of the Spanish nation – yes, also – with the common language, which is Spanish, of all the citizens of Spain. In this regard, when you speak of the letter of regional and minority languages, I would like to say to you that there are few states that respect both their linguistic plurality and Spain. In fact, there are other countries, such as France..., which you have recently, moreover, for some strange reason..., Mr Puigdemont and other nationalist inclines have awakened and seem to want to set an example to France. Of course, France has not only not ratified the letter of minority European languages, regional or minority languages, but of course it cannot have done so in any way, because the official character of Spanish languages – yes, Spanish languages – other than Spanish in Spain – such as Catalan, Basque or Galician –..., that recognition does not exist in any other country in our democratic environment. Therefore, we must recognize... That's why we told them in our amendment that we see our strangeness, our perplexity, in the fact that states with social presence of languages other than the official – such as Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, with percentages of native speakers of Russian who reach almost half the population – have not signed that letter, and that others – such as France, for example – have signed it, but not ratified it. That is why we say that the constitutional framework, of the Spanish Constitution of 1978, is the best framework for the recognition of a multilingual nation, of a nation that has different languages, that has a wealth that I will never tire of showing, of highlighting, that is the richness of having a common language, that you hate, but that, in any case, is a great wealth for us. The Spanish do have a common language, which is the Spanish language, which is the Spanish language. Mrs Palacín, you can call it either Spanish or Spanish, but in any case it is a wealth to which we have all, of course, also Catalans, Catalan citizens, collaborated. Antoni de Capmany himself, whom he mentioned earlier, a liberal, conservative liberal of the early 19th century, and one of the great parents of the Constitution of Cadiz, was one of the great literary, historians and promoters of this linguistic unit of Spain based on the Spanish language. That later the wealth of our country has lasted and Spain is today a country with enormous wealth and linguistic diversity? Indeed. Of which many of the citizens of Catalonia boast us; some others... For example, Mr Dalmases, if you say that you love languages so much and that you live with them all the time, I have never seen you and any member of the separatist parties before, ever, in my life, make a single intervention in the language of your fellow citizens. I will always do them, out of affection, out of feeling and out of willingness to live with my fellow citizens. You don't, and they look like the most normal in the world. For us the normal is the coexistence between català and castella, the two languages of the citizens of Catalonia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.246.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.247.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's announce, from the outset, the vote in favour of points 1, 4, 6 and 8 of this motion. We're doing a constructive reading of these, even though we think they're basically referring to places where the catalá can be used. And we will vote against it – and, if it seems to you, President, I already announce it, therefore, separate vote – of points 2, 3, 5, 7 and 9, by different motius. Let me, first of all, clarify that this young man is already... If I may, Mr. Dalmases..., some attacks, some permanent toilets to the Spanish government that are not so, that is not fair; that is not true, many of the things that the young man says; that it is not true, the one that says the young woman. An acclaim: the Spanish State or the Government of Spain what has done for a long time is to defend the Spanish language, the castle, and the different languages of our country. And it is in this sense that the Retreat Union Treaty, in its Article 55, that official languages are who they are. But, despite this, the government of Mr Zapatero in 2005 managed to get the Council to adopt conclusions aimed at allowing the use of other languages in certain subjects within the European Union. And you know it, and there was the Spanish government, the government of Mr. José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. In this sense, for example, and by virtue of other administrative agreements, Catalan citizens can address the Council, the Commission, the Court of Justice, the Committee of the Regions, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Ombudsman in any official language – therefore, in Catalan. And, plus, you can get an answer in this language. This was by virtue of the agreement, as I said, with the Spanish government, the government of Mr Zapatero. Moreover, we have managed that in the Council the representatives of Spain can use any of the co-official languages, including Catalan. And you know it, and there was the Spanish government, the one that got it. And, therefore, the members of the Committee of the Regions can, at this time, use the català in the course of a ple. And Spain has promoted a similar agreement with the European Parliament, which you know on two occasions, 2005 and 2009 – we haven't gotten out yet. But this is the way, if I may say so, Mr Dalmases – this is the way –: at a short time, to go giving passes to get, for example, that the català can also be used in the European Parliament. And I think we can do that. And I think this one should be the young lady's expert, a built one. You said: "My mother tongue is Catalan. There is no concept, I suppose, "Paternal language. My father tongue is the castle; my mother tongue is the català. My mother tongue is català; my family..., Barcelona, València ; my Catalan surnames: Albou, Solsona..., eh? I understand plurilingualism surely in a different way from its own. There's no need to attack Spanish, it's not necessary, it's not necessary. And we can agree in this Parliament on issues that could be advanced because in the European Parliament the Catalan language was used. You can do it. This is not the path: the path of attacks and toilets is not the path. I am, in any case, with the positive part of her young lady. We shall vote in favour, I insist, of points 1, 4, 6 and 8. And we think that this should be the built climate of a debate, as has already been said, that surely what you need most is serenity, calm and leave us with permanent toilets that do not carry. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.248.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Alberto Tarradas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.249.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. After dedicating the previous plenary session to the Government, many of them in relation to the Catalan language and the political use made by the Generality with the two common languages, one of the two common languages of all Catalans..., and today, therefore, the Junts Group brings us a motion in the same line, right? , follow and increase the imposition of Catalan no longer only in schools, not only in the daily lives of Catalans, but also in international relations, in the European institutions. Well, but before this, I would like to..., before I enter into this matter, then, to express from this rostrum all the support and affection of my person and of the Parliamentary VOX Group to the Canet family, to all the families who are going through this situation, who are experiencing harassment and persecution of separatism in their worst face, in their true face. And the truth, honourable Members, is that when I thought that you could no longer fall any lower, you were overcome – you were overcome. You are so sad – so sad – that you violently strike at a five-year-old and your family for asking for twenty-five_per_cent of the hours of instruction in Spanish – twenty-five_per_cent, gentlemen, twenty-five –, one_of_each_four hours – three in Catalan, one in Spanish. And on top of that, they tell us that both Canet's family and VOX hate Catalan. It's just that frankly, it's incomprehensible. And, as I have said in other interventions – and I think that it is also necessary to remember this concept – the true wealth of Spain lies in each of its singularities. And, of course, Catalan is one of those singularities that must be defended and preserved. Because no one can say that Spanish defense or no one can define himself as the patriot if he does not defend all these singularities of our nation. Because Spain, thanks to God, is rich in cultural and linguistic heritage, and patriots would always be willing to defend it, because defending catalanity is defending Spain, and defending Spain is defending catalanity. Now, separatists, the motion that you bring us today... then, do not seek, once again, to defend Catalan; what you seek is to move forward in this rupturist project using the Catalan language, the language of all Catalans, as a political weapon, to impose it on force in all areas to turn it into the single language. And now they also intend to interfere with it in the European Union, as if it no longer had enough problems to agree between twenty-seven Member States. You guys... I don't know, would you understand that...? Do you think a Frenchman or a Polishman would understand that the Spanish MEPs in the Eurocamera were heading in Catalan, Galician, Vascuence, Aranish? In fact, we have a common language, which is Spanish, and that is what we must also use in international relations, in the European institutions. And, besides, it is the language that speaks much..., a very important part of the world's population. With this motion they also intend to attack the judgment of the Supreme Court; with it, the existing legality given by the Constitution, in addition to imposing on companies, as we have heard so many times..., on private companies, producers, to force them to produce also in Catalan. Force Netflix to double the series in Catalan, because, of course... with the game of squid and with the series translated into Catalan, all the problems we've been going through will be solved. Anyway. That is why we are going to vote against this motion, because Catalan is not a tool of its own to make politics and use it to divide the population. Because, unlike you, we are not moved by hatred towards any language; you, on the other hand, are moved by a deep hatred of Spain, of the Spanish language, to such an extent as to encourage apartheid to families who freely and legally decide to educate their children in bilingualism and in their mother tongue. Ladies and gentlemen, Canet's family is leading the way, and we will be at your side, at the side of freedom. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.250.0	Next, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, Mr Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.251.0	Thank you, President. Well, before we entered the office, and proposed some of the things that we've listened to in these last few minutes..., look, here the Catalan language at school, the Catalan language, linguistic normalization, did not impose itself; it applied by consensus, by broad consensus and by a large social majority, and it applied by a large majority to Parliament. Here the only one that is applied by force, by force of toga, is the imposition of percentages of castella to the Catalan school. So let's not be mistaken. The catalan never got over it. The catalá is the result of great social consensus and political majority that you are trying to break. I insist, here the only one that is imposed by force, by the strength of the toga, by the force of the right and the extreme right "combined with the judicature of the rule, is the Spanish language. Don't make a mistake. And secondly, I assume that the political groups defending these percentages of castella in the Catalan school, for the same logic and with the same argumentaries, will defend Catalan quotas to the European Union and to the European institutions. We wait for you at the time of voting in favour of resolutions that wander in this sense. Well, coming in now, now, yes... with regard to the man we're dealing with, I wanted to make a brief historical reference. Strasbourg, 1987. Five hundred and fifty people have re-demonstrated on October 11, 87 in Strasbourg with the Train of Nations. The "expeditionaries" – said the diary Today at that time – were rejected by the mayor and handed over to the president of the Eurocambra – then was Henry Plumb – one hundred and a thousand signatures – collected for the cry for the recognition of minority cultures in Europe and because the català was designed to become an official in the European Union – now there are twenty-three, but still cannot be spoken in català in the plenary of the European Parliament. Among the signatures – attention – there were those of Narcis Serra, Pasqual Maragall and Joaquim Nadal. And, at the same time, you can also find Xavier Rubert de Ventós, of the PSC ; Carles Gasòliba, CDC ; Antoni Gutiérrez Díaz, PSUC, and Concepción Ferrer, of Unió Democrática de Catalunya. Between others, okay? Okay. Thirty-five years have passed since then, and, frankly, we do not know that the majority of political parties that at that time supported this initiative made great efforts to bring the official presence of the català to the European Parliament; the official presence of the català to the Parliament, not the català because it is used in Nadal's postcards, let us understand, eh? , the formality of català in Europe, as corresponds to a normal language. Well, that consensus hasn't materialized since then, and to a large extent it's because we knew and know that the Spanish State is not about the work, it's not about the fact that, in fact, the Catalan language is official in Europe. Therefore, we remain pragmatic, we remain pragmatic, as are international relations, as is international diplomacy, and we assume that only with independence and the Republic can we truly achieve our international recognition and that català is an official language, in equal conditions, for all institutions and for all international multilateral bodies. Have you ever heard of insistence, demand and demand? Obviously. But in the same way that international institutions act with pragmatism, we also act with pragmatism and do not forget the major, sense of doubt. On the other hand, we also have to tell them – we have told them several times –..., we do not agree to generate any great trust or expectations in these institutions. The European Union is not a great example of respect for human, civil and political rights. It is only possible to see its foreign policy, its bilateral external intervention. Just to see its border policy: Europe's border policy is a drama, a tragedy that demonstrates the difficult democratic deficits of the current European Union. Therefore, we, going to claim català as a European language, going to continue working and struggling to achieve, with our own strength, our independence and our republic; it will only be then when we really get the right recognition. And it must also be pointed out, as we have always done, that independence must also be an instrument for us to become an international player of the right, in full equality, to transform international relations, because we do not conceive of a European Union or a European project that does not follow peoples and nations, many of them today without being, in the same way, and without a European Union or a European project of equality, justice and human, civil and political rights for everyone. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.252.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.253.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... I think we're in today's plenary more than six hours talking about the Catalan debate and the castle – as a minimum. I suppose, on the other hand, we certainly give the same feeling of exhaustion that we certainly have many of us on this debate, so I was thinking now of using this young man, who also talks about the rights of the languages of Europe, just to expand a little focus and go to talk about what the diversity of languages in the world supposes, the richness that it supposes throughout the world that there are more than seven thousand languages spoken in the world. Only in Catalonia are they more than three hundred, I mean there are many children and children who, in order to speak Catalan and/ or the castle and English and French, speak as at least 296 more languages, among all of them. Therefore, I think it is important to put the focus in which the languages are not just a communication tool, but that, moreover, they are a way of hearing the world; they are part of the cosmosvisión of people, of the way of hearing this world, of the way of relating; they are the reflection of the social, cultural and historical heritage, of everything that has happened in an area, but also of all the cultural interchances that have existed and of everything that has nourished the richness of these peoples. I... I don't know if you know, but part of my professional life and activist has been to Ecuador. In Ecuador, we worked on the topic of rights of indigenous peoples' languages, and the year 2001 I participated in the work group that gained UNESCO recognition of language and the oral traditions of the indigenous people zapara as an oral and immaterial heritage of humanity – it is the first time that UNESCO made this recognition of oral and immaterial heritage. A language that was spoken by five people at that time; now, of the five that were spoken by it, only three people remain alive, because all were..., five great people. And there were five hundred people, those who lived there, between the jungle of Ecuador and Peru. Therefore, a language in authentic extinction, which was recognized by UNESCO for the richness it assumed. Years later, already from the Catalan Agency for Development Cooperation, we started a project of direct cooperation between the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Ecuador, through the Ministry of Education, for the rescue and education in indigenous languages of the Amazon, which just passed to form teachers in indigenous languages, because there were speakers but there were no teachers, and therefore this teaching could not be done in indigenous languages. One of the things we did was bring people from the Department of Education of the Government of Catalonia to explain how the process of normalization of the use of the Catalan language after the dictatorship, the process of institutionalization of the Catalan language and the process of linguistic immersion in the schools had been, and how it had been possible to move from a language that was spoken at home and in spaces prohibited from being an institutional language that was publicly and politically recognized. And what always came back from there was admiration, admiration for this process, because there was the courage of some institutions, the courage of some political parties and the courage of a society to recover this language that was part of its territory, its way of being and its way of hearing the world. The Sasiku project, which is as it is said, was also very criticized at the time for a visit that was then made by Councillor Carod-Rovira, because it was criticized that he was defaming 1_million euros in four years in defence of minority languages – the same ones who have now questioned linguistic immersion in Catalonia. So, the truth..., of the best money that Catalan cooperation has surely invested in many years, because investing in the defense of languages is investing in the defense of people's rights, and they are basic human rights. And, all this, by contextualizing a little, to go a little further and to say that yes, that forward, that all the recognition of languages, all the institutional support, all the officiality are necessary, and that here we will find, both here and at the joint meetings, the Government of the State, the Congress and the European Parliament, demanding greater presence and recognition of the officiality of the català. That, moreover, is the ninth language most spoken in the European Union, far ahead of many of which are officially recognised. But I did want to reflect, too, and I think we have to defend and we have to be proud of what we've managed to achieve and think that they have a hard time putting it at risk. It is true that there are threats, it is true that there are attacks, above all promoted for the partisanship of the debate – and today we have seen a lot – but there are things that have been achieved and that are very consolidated and that will cost a lot to pull them back. And that's what we went out to defend the disabate, too. I, reading the European charter of regional languages or minority languages..., say that it is not fulfilled, in the case of the Spanish State – with forgiveness, eh? But... – it's not having read it well. Because, in fact, this card is minimal enough for what it does to the recognition of language rights in the education system. And we could read it, but they ask them to read it, because... basically, what they do is they have to make sure that they can study a few hours and that some students can do it. What we have in Catalonia is far beyond what this card says – it's far beyond that. Therefore, we cannot say that this card is not being completed. It's been filling in and going a lot further. And we can give many lessons from how Catalonia is respecting itself and ensuring the social and educational use of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.254.0	On behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.255.0	Thank you, President. Well, I've heard the emotional claim that Mr. Riera, of the CUP, has made majorities and historical parliamentary consensus around the language. The problem is that only two months ago, the same Mr. Riera – I just proved it – said that he, as a deputy, and the CUP came to break the consensus. [[the timer riu]] and the great capitalist majorities of Parliament that prevented the popular classes of Catalonia from empowering themselves – textual phrase. That is to say, the CUP must agree with yourselves: either they are capitalists of parliamentary consensus and system, or they are anti-system. I would have if I were still right when I talked about the old cupcake pajamas that you had with the sports shoes and all those things that I often explain. Yes, it's true – yes, it's true – that you have a fundamental reason and I don't deny it. And he said a truth; he missed it, maybe it wasn't his intention. He said that the motion will receive a disappointing response from the European Union. And in this you have all the reason of the world. Do you know why? Because the European Union, which is actually a club of states, in its founding spirit, what it does is to put the person in front of the collection. And, therefore, they are the linguistic rights of the people and not of the territories to which the European Union defends. Precisely for this reason, the Council of Europe, the European Commission, the pillars of the European Union, will defend the cause of those people in Catalonia who defend the right to bilingual education, because they are the linguistic rights of people. And that says one thing I said before, and it's that linguistic immersion is only legal in Catalonia. And it's not anymore; it was. In fact, as before, to all European communities where linguistic confluence is produced, the Basque Country, Flanders, Switzerland, Ireland, apply two models: either the two separate lines, or bilingualism. But it doesn't apply what applies here. That is why, in effect, you will receive a negative response from the European Union, which you have, in a way, in a premonition, just defined. And that ends with the eternal history of this process here. And it's that, what happens, that all of Europe is made up? Are they all fat? They're fat in Switzerland, they're fat in France, they're fat in Holland... Are you still fat less? I'd say no, wouldn't I? Actually, I'd say it's the other way around: you guys are fat. They're the only ones who defend a tax model for the entire population. That is why they have received a negative response from the European Union, which has advanced brilliantly. It's true. As far as I'm concerned, you know it and I know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.256.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, Mrs Meritxell Serret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.257.0	Thank you, President. It's my turn to thank Junts' company for Catalonia for the initiative and opportunity of this young man, and let's say we give him our support. And when we talk about how to face or claim the recognition of català at European level, I think it is up to us to remember who are the founding principles of the European Union itself, and who are talking about democracy, equality, respect for human rights, respect for national identities, cooperation, solidarity, transparency and proximity. It is on the basis of these principles that the Catalan society, and above all the Republican Left and the independence movement in general, we reaffirm the Europeanism of our society and our own will to have this voice of our own in the European Union. Because we are very much in agreement that cultural diversity is rich, and, in fact, it is one of the great strengths of the European Union, but when we have to remember and talk about why we have not recognized this officiality of the català to the European Union, we must recognize that we do not all campaign with these founding principles nor with the idea that diversity is rich. Because the Catalan language, the Catalan language, is the language of a linguistic community of more than two million Europeans, and we do not want to consider it, nor can we consider it, as a minority language but a minority one. Minoritized, because it's the most widely spoken dowry language, but it's not official yet, and because the officiality and recognition of the Catalan government, which has blocked it up to seven times. And while – while – other less spoken or similarly spoken languages are already official. 1973 was Danish; 1981 was Greek; 95 was Finnish; 2004 was Slovak, Estonia, Slovenia, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta; 2007 was Irish; 2007 was Bulgarian; 2013 was Croatian. But we have seen how, in 2006, the Spanish State denied the official status and restricted it to the whole state, and in 2011, both the PP and the PSOE again vetoed the recognition of the Catalan official status in Congress. Here we have to regret, regret the PSOE-PSC's replenishment, which is the officiality of the català, always said – we have seen it also today – after this supposed neutrality; that for us it is dangerous, because we have seen it in history: when it comes to rights and freedoms, being neutral entails validating its limitation. And we saw, in 2011, that the PSC said "now it doesn't play when we want to officialize the català. And now they're telling us not to attend the demonstration. And for us, not to attend the manifestation of our own dissipation is also to give valid arguments that attack català as a motor of social cohesion. And that's why we're asking them to rectify in an uncomplicated way in front of Spanish nationalism that we've also been able to see here today. Because he's playing, because he's playing to find this political will. Because there is no other spoken language, as spoken as Catalan, which is not official in the European Union. We know that this will hardly come, and that is why the independenceists continue and we will continue to demand, also, for català the need for a similar state. And we want the catalá, because the Catalan citizens have difficulties and limit their rights: because there is no official document that is written in catalá, because addressing the European authorities and institutions is very difficult and there is never a guarantee of a response in catalá, because the political representatives also have limited our expression in catalá – only when it is expressly asked and this is not guaranteed translation – and we have been able to do so in the Committee of the Regions, but we do not touch, which is in Parliament, the Commission and the Council. Moreover, there are basic procedures administered without jurisdictional transcendence. And above all, we also saw when the català is displayed on the label, because it only guarantees the labelling to the European Union in languages that are official. In summary, it is very clear that the formality of the Catalan language would positively affect the conjunction of the citizenry, the assembly of Catalan speakers, these two million, because it is a recognition and a guarantee, the exercise of its rights and of its European citizenship. We will continue in this fight, in this fight to promote the Catalan respect the right. We will weave this alliance of all democrats, because, by consistency with the founding principles, these two million Catalans do not continue to be discriminated against, because the Catalan is not systematically a minority language. That is why we encourage everyone to take part in this Som Escola event, because we are Catalan speakers, we are democrats and we are activists in the defense and promotion of rights and freedom of speech. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.258.0	And, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word of Mr Francesc of Dalmases.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.259.0	Thank you, President. I have done very badly, because I precisely wanted the intervention to praise the meaning of multilingualism, diversity, which is part of the European motto, and two of the speakers have spoken of the hatred of languages. So, no... I've done it fatal, because if you've understood this, I've done it very badly. That said, more concretely, the PSC gave me a manual answer. We liked the shape very much and we appreciate it very much, but the bottom is not, it's just to be told a little bit. Miri, the Spanish State joined the European Union in 1985 – thirty-six years. What's 30 years later they tell us a little bit, well, it sounds a little bit like that, doesn't it? This speech we already have inside of what it's possible to do and what they don't want to do, especially what they don't want to do. With the CUP, we're where we always are. We do not believe that Europe is the solution, but that building a different Europe will find solutions and, therefore, we are Euro-demanding. Those who have said..., those who value languages for the names of speakers give them bad news: vagina learn Chinese I will send, because it's how they will relate. It is the world's most spoken language; therefore, if the ranquing is more spoken language, vagina practicing spelling and grammar. [[Some applause.]] And with the commons we share this idea of the cosmosvisión that represents each language. I didn't... because like I said sometimes I didn't want to talk about Ecolinguistics again, but you reminded me a lot of your intervention. And I have not said that the Spanish State – which does, on many occasions – does not complete the European Language Charter. What I said is that accepting this sentence and defending the application of this sentence, as ministers have done in Madrid, indeed contradicts the international commitments of the Spanish State. The People's Party is right, there is a European Union that we do not like, that is that it is a language, that it is homogeneous, that it is only of the states; in this one they will not find us. Therefore, we are talking about a European transformation. We want another language. And in Esquerra, many thanks, you will find us in this international alliance to make català an official language of the European Union and a recognizable and well-known language of the world, in the concert of all the languages of the world that explain to us how we are and, above all, how we want to be. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.260.0	So the debate is over, so I would like you to know that we shall then proceed to the vote on items 13 to 17 of the order of the day, which correspond to the motions that were tabled on today's day. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the compliment of the Supreme Court's judgment in the matter of language policy to the educational centres (continuation)]] [[302-00067/13]] We will begin with motion 13, the motion following the question to the Government on the compliment of the Supreme Court's judgment in the matter of language policy to the educational centres. We're voting for the whole place, it's just a point. The vote begins. The motion did not approve, with 48 votes in favour, 78 votes against and one abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the school model and linguistic immersion (continuation)]] [[302-00070/13]] We now vote on motion 14, following the question to the Government about the school model and linguistic immersion. We'll vote points 1, 2 and 11. The vote begins. These points received 117 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has received 111 votes in favour, 11 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points four and seven now. The vote begins. These points received 79 votes in favour, 17 against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved with 79 votes in favour and 49 votes against. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved with 111 votes in favour, 11 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting points 5, 6 and 10 now. The vote begins. These points received 111 votes in favour and 17 votes against. [[Following the question to the Government on the application of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia establishing that at least twenty-five per cent of the classes of educational centres must be divided into castles (continuation)]] [[302-00072/13]] We proceed to vote on motion 15, following the question to the Government on the application of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that establishes that twenty-five percent of the classes of educational centres are taught in castles. We will vote first points number 1, 4,5, 8, 14 and 15. The vote begins. These points received 17 votes in favour, 79 against and 32 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10 has not been approved, with 17 votes in favour, 110 votes against and one person who does not vote. And finally we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points received 49 votes in favour and 79 votes against. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the strengthening and transformation of the health system (continuation)]] [[302-00069/13]] We now vote on motion 16, following the Government's inquiry into the strengthening and transformation of the health system. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved with 110 votes in favour and 18 votes against. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 has been approved with 119 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5 was approved with 119 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has received 66 votes in favour, 1 against and 61 abstentions. Finally we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. Vote Begins The remaining points of the motion were approved with 127 votes in favour. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the preservation of rights in the framework of the European institutions (continuation)]] [[302-00073/13]] And finally we vote for motion 17, following the question to the Government on the preservation of rights in the framework of the European institutions. We're voting point number one now. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved with 117 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting points 2 and 5. The vote begins. Points 2 and 5 were approved by 71 votes to 49, with 8 abstentions. We're voting points 3, 7 and 9. The vote begins. These points have also been approved with 79 votes in favour and 49 votes against. We now vote on points 4 and 6. The vote begins. These points have also been approved with 111 votes in favour and 17 votes against. And finally we vote on point number 8. The vote begins. And point 8 was also approved with 111 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[Question to the Government about the situation of people without homelessness]] [[300-00090/13]] Let's move on to the fifth item of the agenda, the question to the Government about the situation of people who are not at home; presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva. [[Long break. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] There's no counselor, actually. Let's go a little before time... but now it seems to me that we're looking for him. [[Long break.]] He's here. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that we've cut down on voting time a little bit. So you have the word, Mrs. Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.261.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Deputies, deputies, tomorrow will be sixteen years after the murder of Rosario Endrinal, a 50-year-old homeless woman who slept in a cashier in the city of Barcelona and who was burned alive by three young people while sleeping. The cameras recorded the crime and the images caused, for weeks, the media and public opinion to debate the consequences of sinogarism, the most extreme form of poverty and social exclusion that exists in our society. Sixteen years have passed and the impact of this crime has served very little to address the situation of people who are forced to live on the streets or in under-homes that do not meet the minimum conditions. Two weeks ago, in this Chamber, we mourned the death of a family in a fire that had occurred in the place that was used as a home for them in the Plaza Tetuán. Two were minors: a three - year - old boy and his four - month - old sister. Like many other boys and girls and many other people in Catalonia, they lived deprived of the most basic rights, without access to essential services such as water or electricity. Death is the hardest face of sinogarism, a process of violation of rights that begins when a person is deprived of housing, and continues with other basic rights such as access to health, work, physical integrity or living in society. For people who sleep on the street, the possibility of dying cold or at the hands of an unknown person is a constant threat. During the confinement, four homeless people were killed while sleeping in the streets of Barcelona, and we regularly find news that explain to us that they attack or even attempt to burn the living, as happened with Rosario Endrinal on December 16, 2005. With this interpellation, from the Socialists i Units per Avançar Group we want to know what measures the Government of Catalonia is taking to prevent situations such as those in the Tetuán Square from happening again, but also what it intends to do to rescue people who are sleeping on the street or in the weather, and to prevent those who are on the edge from finding themselves, in the coming months, in situations as dramatic as these. What the entities that care for them say is that the health emergency, but above all the economic and social crisis that has arisen from it, has come to accelerate the processes of exclusion. We are also told that, despite the fact that the number of homeless people has doubled in the last decade, Catalonia has done very little to address this problem and that synhogarism remains invisible in public policies and in the budgets of the Generalitat de Catalunya. In the last plenary session, Counsellor, you mentioned resources for several million euros to address synhogarism in the budgets of 2022, and your announcement surprised me, because the first thing I did, when these budgets were presented, was to look for items intended to address the situation of homeless people, especially those on the street, and it was impossible for me to find a single specific item in the project or in the economic memory. In the thousand pages of the draft budget only the word «sensellarisme once appears, and it is within the heading« Other social programmes, where the amount and what these resources are intended for is not specified, nor if a part of these resources contemplates the homeless, who are the great forgotten. For years now, the attention to homeless people has been entirely vested in the entities and municipalities, because the Generalitat, which has the competences of housing and accompaniment to address such a complex problem, has been completely disconcerted from the situation of these people. The Barcelona City Council, which carries the largest weight, allocates more than 35_million_de_euros per year to serve these people, and only for a couple of years now the Government has contributed 100_million_euros to these programs. For this reason, as I see the budgets of 2022, I deduced that these resources for synogarism, which fall under the heading « Other social programmes, are the same one hundred and thousand euros that are provided to the programmes of the City of Barcelona, but that is a figure we could say witness, in the face of the expenditure that this and other local governments are taking on. That is why I would like you to explain to us here the figures that you made available in plenary, because not only do we not find these items in the budgets, is that the 2022 budget presentation document, which has a hundred pages, does not mention the word « sensellarisme» once – not once. It is difficult to think that this issue is a priority for this Government when it is not even possible to find one in the presentation of budgets. Above all, I would like to know which items and programmes the Government of Catalonia intends to devote to addressing the situation of homeless people, those who sleep on the street or in the weather. Is there at least one specific program from the Department of Social Rights that is addressing the situation of homeless people, Counselor? One? You also mentioned the need to prioritise the housing first model, a proposal shared by the Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group. But I don't see anywhere a game to make houses that need an integral approach like this come true, nor do I see games to deal with the accompaniment these people need or to prevent others from being exposed. If these budgets are to make housing a reality to boost the housing first model, I would like you to tell me how many are and when they will be available. I think you are also aware that one of the groups most affected by the current health, economic and social crisis is that of women. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the number of women served in one of Barcelona's reference entities for homeless people, the Assis Foundation, has grown by seventy_and_seven_per_cent. They are, for the most part, women who were on the edge, who avoided the street spending the night in a boarding house or at the home of some stranger and who have now seen all their survival strategies fading away. What the entities that care for them say is that the covid has not created a new situation, what it has done is to accelerate the female signage that remained hidden. If the main cause for men ending up on the street is lack of employment, in the case of women it is violence. According to a study by two research groups at the University of Barcelona in 2019, violence is what connects the stories of homeless women, before and during their life on the street. Two thirds of them have experienced violence by their partner and half sexual abuse in childhood or adulthood. Violence is also the trigger for them to leave their homes and when they arrive on the street they face the constant threat of sexual, but also physical, abuse. The beating that Rosario Endrinal received, before he was set on fire, is a common situation faced by women living on the street. Counselor, what is your government being about these women? I am aware that the only initiatives that exist to address the situation of homeless women are those that carry out foundations such as Assis, which recently launched the La Violeta centre, which has managed, in a few months, to prevent several women who were at risk and who have now normalized their lives from ending up on the street. The Catalonian Parliament passed a number of resolutions tabled by my parliamentary group in the last parliamentary term calling on the Government to create residential and accompanying resources specific to women, but also early detection systems. I know that none of these measures have come true, because I receive government compliance controls. And I'd like to know what you're planning to do now. In the same vein, I would like you to explain to us what is going on with families and people who are not sleeping on the street, but they are malliving in ships or infra-housing that do not meet the conditions. What's going on with this other face of sinogarism, the consequences of which we saw two weeks ago in Tetuan Square? Barcelona City Council says there are 209 boys and girls in Barcelona alone and 656 adults in conditions similar to those of this family. Do we know how many families, how many boys and girls are in this situation throughout Catalonia, counselor? What is your Government doing for these families, but especially for children in situations such as those in this family? You know that yesterday the Third Sector Table announced that at least one thousand_four hundred homes are needed to respond to the needs of the most vulnerable people and families. Is there a timetable for making this request possible? In the last plenary you announced that very soon the marc d'action will be approved for the approach of sensellarisme to Catalonia. But the director of Arrels recalled, following his announcement, that since 2017 the governments of Catalonia, which have been formed by the same formations as now, have said two or three times that they would approve the strategy of approach of senellarisme and have never managed to do so. In fact, the model d'atenció a personas sense llar, developed in 2010 by the Gouvernement d'entesa, ended up in the bottom of a drawer and has never again known anything about it. It is not a question, she advises, that when a tragedy like this happens, announcements are made that never come true. What Catalonia needs is to make the fight against sinogarism a priority, and for this it has to be part, first, of the political agenda and budgets of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Sinogarism has to stop being invisible. I have other things I'd like to comment on with you, but I'll do it during the replica shift. But I'd like to..., if you can answer to what I've done so far: what budget and programmes for homeless people have planned these budgets, what budget and programmes it has for families who are living in infra-housing, and what budget and programmes it has for women. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.262.0	There's the word Social Rights Counselor, Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.263.0	Thank you very much, President. Madam Member, in the first place, I therefore thank you for this inquiry; among other things, so that I see that it was not very clear in the full passage in two minutes and I can explain which of the actions or lines of action of the Government in the matter of sensellarism, I believe that with this inquiry and I am sure that afterwards with the following motions that will be presented as a result of the inquiry we can speak. From the start, just a hint: I never count lies. In any case, what I do..., sometimes I can make a mistake, sometimes it can't be done, but when I make some statement normally it is, first, because I think it; second, because I have it projected. Sometimes they can't come to completion, but by definition I don't tell lies and try, when I make statements, to have the certainty that I can get to completion. You spoke and commented that in the assumptions, therefore, you do not contemplate parties dedicated to sensoryism. What I want to say to him is that when you have a presumption of 4,000_million euros with different instruments of action, sometimes perhaps it is true that it is difficult to detect in which of the parties a concrete action has taken place. In the first place – just say it, because I think that we all know this, but it is also worth remembering – the subjects of the basic services are the competence of the Generality, but also of the assemblies. And I'm telling him that they're joints and, for this reason, the main tool the Generality has to be able to work in this material in concrete, which is social services, it's through the program contract, which is what we're working with joints. And one of the numbers I told you in the last question was the 12_million euros that contemplates the program contract in order to help the assemblies fight against this sensellarism. He also commented that it is true that since the year 2016 the Government of the Generalitat has urged itself to be able to make an integral action mark of the approach of sensillarism. They've been working for some years, so, in this brand of action. The pandemic is true that it put up with it. When we arrived at the government we took back the jobs and these jobs are finished; they are finished and they are following the steps that are needed to be able to carry a _mark of these characteristics..., which is this [[The counselor shows the chamber a document]] , even the whole thing has spread – that's it – that we'll go through, then, to rule. And this is what we need to be able to work together with the Administration of the Generality, the assemblies – the local Administration – and also with the entities, which, as you recall, have been working and fighting against sensoryism for many years. And this mark must enable us to work in a coordinated way in the different institutional areas or entities, but also through all the departments of the Generality involved in this issue. As you also know, the theme of sensellarism is not only a problem of basic sub-administrations; it is also a problem of housing, it is a problem of social support, it is an educational problem, it is also a problem of work. For this reason, it is important that this framework rules the way we organize ourselves between the Government of the Generality in order to be able to work in this line. And as you say and also say the mark, the idea is to be able to work on the working methodology of the Housing First. And this will be the idea. The fact that the Department of Social Rights at these times, therefore, also has the skills of housing, I think it is good news to be able to focus efforts on this matter, on the matter of housing. But you know that especially in people who live on the street, without a home, it's not just a housing issue, but it's also a follow-up issue. In this performance, when it refers, therefore, to the people we have without going to Catalonia, there are different classifications, and between them..., and, moreover, the study does this through questions that are fan in different groupings. One of the data that reflects and gives the proper study is that the sensellarism of speech is located in the great cities, in the cities of more than twenty thousand inhabitants. But there are no different degrees of sensillaryism. The most severe degree, than that of the people without a foothold, above..., we have in Catalonia, according to this study, about 5,700 people, who obviously need determined actions of no choice. And then there's about 4,400 that have habitats, but they're habitats in conditions... not good conditions, huh? Or because they live in hotels too. And then there is a very large volume of people, around fifty thousand, living in complex situations – habitats to be denuded, habitats in bad conditions. Therefore, when he gave him the numbers the other day – and I try to make a point of rest because I just took the question of the other day– he said: the contract program previews 12_million euros to fight against sensoryism, which go directly to the municipalities; but between this contract program there are also 5.2_millions for social urgency; 5.8_millions for energy urgency, taking into account that there are different levels of sensoryism; 8_million euros that we also have for energy poverty, and 120_million euros that are dedicated to social logistic aid, that between the strategic mark, I insist, there is the globality of sensoryism. Strict Sensellarism of people living on the street, therefore, 12_million euros. But, in the band of these moneys, there are the different calls for grants. I, among the different grant calls, in the 20-21 exercise, for example, more than €10 million was allocated to entities that assist in basic sub-administrations, for example. But there are also EUR 3.5_million for programmes aimed at covering basic needs of families and people who are in a vulnerable situation, or EUR 1_million for the process of recovering personal autonomy and social ties, or EUR 2_million to facilitate the empowerment of people who are in a poor situation. What do I mean by that? That in the policies of sensellarism, if what we want is that they are transversal..., will not find a concrete heading. In this case we can say: there is a specific heading, which is not in the assumptions because it is among the parties of the program contract, that it is 12_million euros specific to sensellarism and that they did not see them in the assumptions because they are among the block of money that we will allocate to the program contract. And the money we're going to spend on housing policies, so obviously it's going to go to people who don't have a home or to other people. What's our intention? Obviously, they can continue to help entities so that they can make social floors available so that they can help those people who do not have to go and get more floors, that indirectly the amount of money is also between the housing assumptions, so that they can buy flats through taneig and retraction. Therefore, the struggle against sensellarism, when we have approved the strategy, will be global, not only of our department, but also that, besides, there will involve the competitions and the parties that can reach us..., that we can get to coordinate with the rest of the departments of the Generality. I don't know if I've just answered any of the questions. I could tell you that the concrete file of sensellarism, the 48 file between the program contract... But, come on, I think that would also be going into a lot of detail. And, in addition, I insist, the mark of action against sensellarism has not yet been passed on to the government. So, when we've been through the government, obviously, we'll make the corresponding presentation. I am sure, therefore, that we will be able to analyse it together. And, plus, we're open to any other input or idea to improve what we all think is one of our kills. I mean, we obviously don't want to have people on the street, but not just people on the street, but people who live in infra-habitats or people who are in denunciation processes, which are all covered by this strategy against sensellarism.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.264.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mrs Beatriz Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.265.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I have not said that you are telling lies, only that we would really like to have concrete results, because they really do not come out of the draft budget and neither do they come out of the intervention you have made now. We are surprised that, for example, he has not cited the guaranteed income of citizenship in order to combat sensillarism and we would like to see in his reply some of the things I asked him about the Housing first, for example, if there is really going to be at least one home for homeless people, because this is something that the entities have been demanding for a decade. In my previous speech I raised the need for synhogarism to cease to be invisible. And why should I tell him? Look, I give you some examples. During the confinement, the Government did not take into account homeless people, who were the most exposed to the virus. They had no place to confine themselves, they could not follow the hygiene recommendations, for example, with regard to hand washing because they had no access to health services, they could not isolate themselves because that required housing. Bars and other places were closed where they could access health resources, but also to get food. And it was the private entities that had to react to give them help. The parish of Santa Anna was one of the few resources that continued to provide assistance, delivering food through bars in order to be able to meet health standards. Vaccination began and no one thought, from the Government, that these people had to be a priority when they were vaccinated, because they were totally exposed to the virus and because their health is much more precarious than that of the rest of the population for their living conditions, because living on the street remains up to thirty years of life a person. Homelessness and homelessness cannot depend on the goodwill of the entities or on the charity. They have rights that have to be covered by public policies, which are financed by taxes paid by citizens. And that is what we demand from the Socialists i Units per Avançar Parliamentary Group: that the rights of these people be recognized and that public policies be started for them. For example, activate section 7.3 of the guaranteed income of citizenship, which allows homeless people to receive it with a social service report. Why hasn't this been done so far, Counselor? The situation of homeless and homeless people in Catalonia does not correspond to the level of wealth in Catalonia, which is equivalent to that of a developed country in Western Europe. Catalonia will have in 2022 a budget of more than 38,000_million_de_euro, 5,618_million_de_euro more than in 2020. In 2020 he received an extraordinary 3.225_million_of_euro in transfers from the state to deal with the effects of the covid, and in 2021 he received 2,161. It is difficult to understand why some of these resources have not been invested in addressing the situation of homeless people and those living in infra-housing, or why the Next Generation funds are not being used to launch, for example, the housing first model, which you now say you would like to push. Your advisor has announced that the Barnahus model of children's cases will be deployed throughout Catalonia, something you said a year and a half ago that would not be possible in several years, but now the European funds have made it possible. Why have homeless people not been considered to make use of these funds, which have as their priority the fight against poverty and social exclusion? The homeless are the poorest and most excluded in our society. There is another very important thing that we have not talked about today and it is the fight against aporophobia. And I want to know what's being done for this. In my previous intervention I commented that death by the hands of an unknown person or by conditions of extreme precariousness is a constant risk to the homeless. There is a part of society that not only blames them for their situation, it also attacks them. Forty_y_seven_per_cent of people who sleep on the street admit to having suffered hate crimes, such as insults or beatings, but eighty_y_five_per_cent does not report for fear of reprisals or by government barriers, which does not respond to their situation. In all these years we have never seen a campaign by the Generalitat de Catalunya to combat aporophobia and raise the awareness of society about this problem. Are you planning on doing something? These days have begun to lower temperatures and we will meet very soon before the start of Operation Cold to prevent people sleeping on the street from dying because of the low temperatures. Then and now the same message emerges from the entities: we need structural responses. We're told that we're not properly addressing sinogarism, and they're right. When will these structural solutions arrive? Counselor, the five_minutes you have left, could you make an effort to clarify all these issues? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.266.0	And there's the word now, in the turn of the line, the social rights counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.267.0	Thank you very much, President. Yes, I'll try to answer, even though he hasn't listened too much to what I've tried to explain to him before, he was told that the parties that we're going to dedicate to sensellarism aren't pond parties in a certain line, but they're cross-party parties, more than that, that they're working through a lot..., of different general directions, to hear us, just talking about our department. I was told that entities have made a great effort to give basic sub-administrations to families and people who have difficulties, and I do not doubt that. It is true, the entities have made a great effort; that the Government of the Generality has also made it. The Generalitat de Catalunya, during this pandemic, has financed entities with 10_million euros for sub-administrations just to the people who needed it most. So, it's true, the entities have done it, in a very good way, thanks for the money the Generality gives them, as it can't be any other way, huh? But, therefore, 10_million euros have gone to the entities in order to be able to donate these sub-administrations. He was talking about the cows. Yes, it is. They've come to donate cows. At a time when health care institutions have allowed the ages of... cows to go to people who had a certain age... And people without home, even if they were in a vulnerable situation, had a certain age. We remember what was going on in the 20th. And I remember it perfectly, because I, that soc of Lleida..., there was a great campaign of pages, especially of the Lower Segria, which demanded that at the time they were vaccinated. It'll end up vaccinating. It wasn't just them getting vaccinated, but... it's true that it's because the age at the time allowed it. So, they're going to be vaccinated. And I remember that it was vaccinated with the vaccine that had a single dose just because of the difficulty, then, of being able to look for these people and be able to give them the second dose. So, yes, he's going to try to vaccinate. And, besides, the generality established, in the very period of the covid, space – and I can also remember it, because I have them more present –..., what do I know, eh? The Bellpuig Alberg, for example. They were spaces that we dedicated to people who had difficulty doing their own wingings because they had the cage, and they were dedicated spaces because these people could do the wingings. Therefore, he also thought of people who had difficulties. He was talking to me about European foundations. That's another topic for which you don't see it from the premise. I hope that now at the end, because we are about to sign the agreement..., we will sign the agreement with the Ministry of Social Rights, where we see a game of 400_million euros, of which 200_million euros are destined for equipment. What kind of equipment? Great people, people with disabilities, senselessness, and also people with mental illness problems, so they can do equipment dedicated to this very thing. But this will be a public call. I mean, I can tell you there's 200 million dedicated to this. How many of these 200_million have been dedicated to making some kind of summons for people without home? So I don't know, it depends on the summons, the entities that present themselves or the assemblies that present themselves and the resolution of this summons. Therefore, European foundations do foresee – and at the beginning of the year we will have the basis – the possibility of equipment for people without home. About the Barnahus? Well, yes, that's true. The Barnahus, which is a pilot project that worked and worked very well in Tarragona, European foundations allow us to distribute these Barnahus throughout the territory. We'll do it and we'll have it planned. That's what I can announce, because it's "Generality Equipment," so these aren't in public call, and so they're equipment that we do... And this is what I said in a categorical way: we will make equipment about the Barnahus. I can't tell him about the others because they're calling. And the answer is structural. Yeah. We, from the department, will try that all these European foundations serve so that the responses are structural. And, plus, it's that neither does it allow us to be like this. And European foundations, as you know, have very marked lines from which we will not be able to get out. Another part of the European foundations that can serve sensellarism is that there will be a 40_million euro game dedicated to pilot projects of social services..., innovation in social services. And here too there can be projects like, for example, Housing First, or Sensellarism projects or community action projects. Therefore, I hope that, at the length of the legislature, at the length of the year..., at the length of the year that you see, it will not be necessary to wait much, we can come to realize all these questions that you have now, therefore, raised to me. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.268.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the situation of the young woman]] [[300-00091/13]] Let us turn to the sixth item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the situation of the young woman; presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mr David González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.269.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, deputies and deputies, very late at all. I want to begin my questioning by doing a self-criticism exercise of my own and individual, of my person as a Member, but also, if I may, collectively, of all the parliamentary groups that we are represented in this chamber. And it is that, once we have spoken with youth entities, with other Members and Members of other groups, we have come to the conclusion that in this Parliament there has been little talk of youth in which we carry this mandate. Often, questions which are more cross-cutting, questions which are more interdepartmental, which do not depend solely on a particular department, but which ask different departments on the part of the government, are usually also the most oblivious. This is a vice that, like political representatives, we can't afford. Therefore, part of the motivation, Madam Counsel, to carry out this inquiry is to correct this deficit of hours not dedicated to talking about youth policies and also to increase its quality at the time of these debates. Counselor, the first question we want to ask you is what level of importance does it give, the government of which you form part, to the deployment of new youth policies to reverse the current situation in Catalonia. What priority do you also give him, as counsel, with a larger council that embraces thematic differences. It has been said many times, during the last weeks – because it was the moment and it is true – that the premise is the most important and most important tool that any democratic government can have; it is true. So, despite the fact that the Generality's premise for 2022 has an increase in agreement thanks to the reversal of the contributions of the Government of Spain, of the contributions of the Next Generation, we can do a comparative policy exercise to see that the Spanish Government increases policies in the area of youth by about seven percent and the Government of Catalonia only makes two_per_cent. A assumption that is 4.6_million less than the assumption of the year 2010. What are you going to say to us with these data, ma'am? Aren't we the young people a collection important enough for the Government of the Generality? I hope, I wish and I understand that yes, and that, moreover, it is his will and it is as he thinks it is, but let us, in the same way that I put him in doubt, many other young people throughout Catalonia also do, in view of this lack of interest and investment. Interest and reversal that young people need at the moment we find ourselves, at a time when they are completely abandoned in the face of the great number of problems they have in the front. One of the main problems the young man has in Catalonia is the difficulty he supposes to emancipate himself. If we add to this problem the worrying xifra of youth work precariousness in Catalonia, emancipating itself is converted into an almost unbreakable mission for the young people of Catalonia. Youth policies and housing-oriented emancipation policies are some of our main axes of action, and it hardly seems that these same axes are the same as those of the Government of the Republican Left and of Junts for Catalonia. One more time, unfortunately, we have to talk about a new glaring memory that you surely know perfectly, advise: the emancipation rate between young people from seven to twenty-nine years is in short history and falls to 15,5_per_cent. It's the lowest cipher in the entire century, and it's, this cipher, the half of the year 2007; very, very worrying, that. Moreover, the band in which there are more possibilities of emancipation, which is obviously at a more advanced age, from twenty-five to twenty-nine years, each time represents a smaller part of the total of the young population. And that means that this tax is gradually falling and that it is expected to do so a few more years ago, especially if the work environment and housing policies continue to be unfavorable. The problem..., this situation that we're describing would surely be a legacy too, very similar to the pre-pandemic situation. But, like all of life, the cove-19 arrived, the pandemic arrived and it changed everything. Unfortunately, the pandemic of covid-19 has reduced by fifteen percentage points the level of emancipation on the part of young people. They cannot develop or grapple with life projects without guaranteeing, first of all, a place to live with dignity. Since the Government of Spain, a step has been taken – a first step has been taken, but it is a first step – respecting the problem of youth emancipation, since last October the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez, announced the creation of a young housing voucher that will provide 250_euros per month to young people between divided and thirty-five years, with the aim of achieving a fair recovery and reducing the high level of emancipation throughout the country. Meanwhile, the Government of Esquerra and Together realize some assumptions, which we are currently seeing, with an investment in young policies of all insufficient. The problem of emancipation is reinforced and intensified if account is taken of the four major problems found by young people in the field of employment, the labour market. The attempt to summarize and summarize very briefly. The first of all, the youthful ature. We'll start with good news, because it doesn't all have to be bad. Here we know, and we rejoice, that the employment rate has increased, as at least, to 48,6_per_cent, according to the quarterly report of the Catalan Youth Observers. But we must regret that they still find themselves in a situation of more than 130,000 young people in Catalonia. Secondly, the difficulty in accessing the labour market that generates is a frustration in many young people and has reached a xifra, the year 2020, of 18.2_percent of young Catalans who decide neither to study nor to work, a xifra that is higher than the Spanish medium. The third of the great problems that young people find in the field of employment and work is precisely what type of work currently dominates the labour market. If it's hard to access the market, one time they're inside what they find is a precarious job, a very precarious job. More than half of the young contracts under thirty years of age are part-time, concretely 53,4_per_cent, which is the tallest xifra of the last decade. This figure confirms that the temporary contract has been consolidated as a common form of contract between young people in Catalonia. And, finally, the fourth of the problems is the low number of young self-employed people we have, but above all, and, if I may, with an important gender perspective, they are the young self-employed in our country, which only represent thirty-six_per_cent of the total number of young self-employed people. The young Catalan girl firmly claims the right to have the necessary mechanisms to build her life plan autonomously and independently for them and for them. Finally, we cannot forget one of the problems most affected by the pandemic of covid-19, and that this week, in this House, we have not spoken more than once to the monoGRAPHic plenary of mental salvation, such as the mental salvation of and young people in Catalonia. Mental disorders currently account for seven percent of the global burden of illness and injury to people from different ages. The pandemic has marked an increase above all for what it does to people between the ages of thirty-four – it is to say, the youngest people – who have been the ones who have had the most anxiety attacks and the most symptoms of depression, with all the consequences that this generates and know that they are sufficiently fateful. The Government of Spain, once more, has left behind the silence that stigmatized mental health disorders, has taken a first step once more, has placed them in the public debate and has taken action. It has created pla 2021-2024 of mental salvation and covid-19, which will count, as at least, with an economic endowment of 100_million euros. Meanwhile, and they recognize that the activity we have this week here in this Parliament, the monogram ple, has been a demand on the part of the government, also called for and proposed by other parliamentary groups... We know that this is a first step, we know that in this monogram ple we will have the opportunity to see other motions for resolution that will present all the groups, but we want to know what the guide of the government will be. We would like to ask, Madam Counselor, what you have – concretely from the youth counseling, from youth policies – thought the Government in the matter of prevention, detection and action of young mental salvation. I ended up, hoping that with your answer I could give you an answer to the set of questions I asked you. I would like to conclude that this is a decisive moment for everyone, the same way we are living, but that we take the generational perspective that is so necessary, right? It's a time to be ambitious and ambitious. It's time to look for us horizons. This is the time to build the path and to achieve a more progressive, equal and opportunity-filled model of society, now and for the future. It's time for a young Catalonia and a young Catalonia. A Catalonia for everyone. That's what we need to do and that's what we're proposing to do from now on. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.270.0	There's the word Social Rights Advisor, Mrs. Violant Cervera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.271.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, I also thank him, in a way, for his inquiry. In fact, both the previous question about sensellarism and this question about youth, about policies and the situation of young people in Catalonia, it is obvious that they are very opportune. Sensellarism, for the situation in which we live and, as we previously recalled, also situation..., which implies winter for these people. And also the subject of youth, which I have not talked about on a number of occasions, which I believe is the third question I have raised in this Parliament to talk about youth policies. I was asking what was the government's capture of youth issues. I believe that – as I am convinced, of all governments – our will and our level of importance is as high as you can imagine. All the governments, ours too, what they want is to be able to work for young people and to say that young people, therefore, live fully, as long as they are young teenagers as well as when they want to emancipate themselves. You have recalled – and as I have also done in other questions, we know the data – which are the data of young people, young people in Catalonia; who are the data of emancipation; and the circumstances of their precarious work. And it's obvious that we all share that this is one of our great reps, it's one of our great reps with the country. And we from the government, in fact, will work on it. We'll work, and it's good that the debates are shared and shared across all groups in the chamber. And we will do it in various forums and with various actions; not only today through this young man, but, as you said, the groups in the chamber approved the possibility of making a monographic ple to be able to discuss youth issues, but also in other areas of participation. Also tell them that the year you see, that it is the International Youth Year, at the fever is going to make the Youth Congress. Therefore, it will be a good space not only to be able to debate parliamentary groups, but also to be able to debate with entities, and especially with the National Youth Council, which must be these youth policies that we must continue to work on. The emancipation rate, you remembered, is very low– a fifteen_per_cent–, the lowest of all the century. It's also true that the pandemic didn't help either. And it's true that if the pandemic has passed the bill to all the states of our society, it's obvious – and we've seen it, we're seeing it with the levels of youth suicide – so it's affecting especially the younger people. And today, this week, we're making a monographic plethora to debate mental illness, and we all know that I'm sure they'll come up with proposals to be able to work just as well for the younger people. Among the areas of our department, and you know it too, one of the secretaries is the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth, where there are childhood policies and also youth policies. The assumption of youth this year grows in 4,8_million euros and that of the agency grows in 2_million euros. The European foundations, as he also commented, also provide for parties and opportunities for growth in matters of youth. In matters of youth, the Generalitat, as you know, has all the Generalitat's hotels and, therefore, we will also work in this line; not only through the hotels, but also through the policies of the lleure, which also serve, in a certain way, to help these young people to have a more free lleure. You were commenting earlier that the assumptions of the Generality would grow thanks to the contributions of the European foundations. I remember that European foundations are not from the State, but from Europe. And he was talking more about state contributions. Also, just remember it 'there: the contributions are not from the State; the contributions that arrive to us are from the citizens, from the citizens of Catalonia, and unfortunately, obviously not all of us arrive. Therefore, the assumptions will lead just as well in being able to work in these youth policies. In the past intervention we also had in this Parliament to talk about youth policies, tried to explain to them that from the department what is basically the coordination of youth policies, transversal coordinations that is fan through the tools and transversal instruments that we have through the Government. In the next part of my intervention, I will detail – and what we already know – what the other departments do in matters of youth. The problem that some departments have in concrete terms, which they do is to coordinate these cross-cutting matters, is that it is difficult to allocate or destrange, in the same premise, what is the assumption that it is intended from Salvation, or from Education, which is basically the whole premise, or from any sphere of action, or from Universities, which is also the majority of its premise. And all this money, of course, is not wrapped up in a concept that says "Youth," because, in fact, it is difficult to detract how much money from the Health Department is devoted to youth. And that's why there's difficulty. Clearly, then, the only program we have is that which is destined to the presumption of Social Rights in the matter of Youth, that what I gave it, therefore, is this: working in coordination matters, basically, between the different departments. Another of the tools that the Department of Social Rights has to be able to work and that is also a tool that serves to coordinate us between the different departments and the National Youth Council, is the national plan of the young woman of Catalonia. A national plan that ended the year 2020 and which we have extended because its drafting can adapt to the needs that we have at these times. As he was also commenting, the year we see the Congress of the Youth of Catalonia in February, we will crystallize the conclusions of this work already done during this period, to talk about who the youth policies of Catalonia should be. And, well, more or less, let's go do this. In any case, in the content of the next part of the intervention I will just detail what the Government of the Generalitat does in the matter of youth. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.272.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr David González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.273.0	Thank you, President. Madam Councillor, first of all, I have not said 'State contributions', I have said 'State contributions'. I am very aware that investments, resources come from the citizens of Catalonia and that they are not resources of the State, they are resources from the citizens of Catalonia, as also the Government of Spain is the Government of the citizens of Catalonia. We talked a little as a young man, I told you at first. I appreciate what part of what you were talking about I think was in the line of this philosophy, right? Therefore, the self-criticism that was taking place is precisely because the Youth Commission has trigated a lot to form, has trigated a lot to start working, and has trigated enough to just hear what is the scheme we want to finally give answer to young people's problems. We have been known, Madam Counselor, that, by reason of the agenda we fully understand and exist, you will not be able to accompany us and you will not be able to make the appearance to the first Youth Commission that we have planned for the coming week. It's a shame, I have to say. On the part of our group, we are willing to adapt to their agenda as best as possible, because we believe it is important that the Youth Commission, the first Youth Commission we carry out, can compare the Youth Councillor of Catalonia. He also commented on a subject that is very important, and it is the question of the demand that we have made by the vast majority of parliamentary groups to achieve a monographic plethora to address the situation of young women. It is a shared demand, also called for by the National Youth Council of Catalonia. And we were pleased that even in this first quarter or this second quarter of 2021 it was possible to materialize. They know it's not like that. We know that we will have to wait, in principle, for proposals from other groups, which have told us that we will have to wait until mid-2022. We'll wait, but we don't think I'm responding to the urgency that we're being asked by the young woman right now. I've talked to him a lot about many issues related to the Government of Spain. He could also talk about other relationships with other autonomous communities, for example the Valencian Community. The Valencian Community, with its President Ximo Puig, announced at middays this year, precisely, a macroplà to address all questions of youth, endowed with 1,700_million euros in multiannual terms. I agree that there are certainly many things that the Government of the Generality is doing. We would also agree that there are many things that are not happening and that we could be doing. Therefore, we need an action plan. We need minimal planning to help us respond, and to the opposition to help us monitor, precisely, whether or not the objectives we have are met, and that we can constructively make other proposals. You are the adviser responsible for youth policies; that is clear. And, obviously, many of the questions that we have commented on, and that he has said that it is reserved now for his later intervention, do not need to see concretely with his councillorship, but that they depend structurally on other councils of the Government. Perfect. But we expected, as at least, an answer – one, as at least – to some of the questions and questions that we were realizing. It's just that you can't understand that you haven't returned any of the things we've done to you. And if the answer is that, obviously, he may not technically know the functioning of other councils, we would like to know what the planning he has is, if it works with a concrete structure, because his government can give an answer to the youth environment. Because we think it will be you who will be in front of this question, even though it is with Occupation, even though it is with Greeting. We already know that there are other issues and we already know that there are other parties, but this is what we want to achieve at least. Miri, we'd love to be constructive, like dic. We would like, from our group, to think about proposing different proposals for resolution, different programmes, different questions that need to be addressed not only in the next motion, not only in the monogram that we will end up doing this divining on the debate on mental health, but we have many more questions. In the area of Health – you know and you can see – we have offered some Socialist Group and Forward Units to have a platform to give advice and advice to all young people in the field of mental health, with a telephone available. In the area of housing – and we have called for it many times – what is needed is the creation of municipal public housing parks with a percentage reserved for young people, for young people in each municipality. And in the field of occupation, we need the Youth Guarantee to really end up working as a useful tool. And, in this sense – and I finish, Madam President – we have to take very much into account what we are doing with youth referents to Catalonia. We need to keep in mind what the problem is. We are spending a moment where forty people who are working in the area of the Youth Guarantee will now leave in the street. There are some very important union demands, not only for which they correspond to each worker, but for which they correspond to the conjunction of this program. We have to give answers to a lot of problems we have. Let's get to work there. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.274.0	And finally, the social rights advisor has the word on the line.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.275.0	Thank you very much, President. Yeah, I also know a person of consensus, and, plus, I'm sure that – sure, huh? – in the motion they presented in their own Ple, so I'm sure we can agree, just as I'm sure we can agree on some of the materials and priorities we think can help young people to emancipate. And I'm sure you share with me the difficulty that I suppose I can make real policies to help emancipate young people. I'm just doing a few brushes of, like I said, what we've been doing as the government of the generality, at least during this period. In housing policies. The young population is one of the main recipients of the resources dedicated to helping to pay loguers. From 2016 to 2020, people between 30 and five years of age, assuming the disset_percent of the population, with more than 1,3_million people, have rejected between the divide and the twenty-five_percent of the aid of the logue programs; around fifteen_percent of the economic benefits, especially of urgency; between thirteen and seven_percent of the aid to residents of the public park. So young people are a priority. The young population representing Catalonia, in the band of services and of this disset_percent representing the population of between divided and thirty-five years, also benefits from an important number of aids to the habitats of the Generalitat, since it accounts for thirty-u and thirty-five_percent of the habitats awarded each year for the Generalitat, from the years 2016 and 2020. Therefore, most of the housing awards are also dedicated to the young population. The Generality is also a referent in the subject matter of mediating and logging, and the mediating network of logging is also available to young people in this subject matter. You told me that you would like to see a municipal public housing park also dedicated to young people. Of the European aid, I would like to remind you that EUR 160 million was earmarked for the construction of housing in public only dedicated to social logger. Our intention is that part of this habitation may also be dedicated to the younger people. You, too, refer to the youth occupation referents. As the word goes, it's business. Thus, before, the Department of Occupation was between the Department of Social Affairs and Families. At these times he's in another department, he's in the Department of Work. And, therefore, these referents have gone to stop, in this presupposition 22, so, to the Department of Work, with the compromise that the 23rd we would recover the program. It's true too – and I think that you know it and, in a way, you hinted at it – that these people were part of some programs. And the programs – it's not that either the Department of Work or the SOC –..., they can't extend their stay, between these programs, more than three years, so they already carry complements. But the will is to be able to continue working on these youth employment programs. Other actions that are due to the end of other departments of the Generality. From the Department of Labour: Youth Self-Occupation Program – a few years ago it published the basic order and it is likely to come out of the call–; a new operating program 21-27 Youth Guarantee; Youth Guarantee and Youth Contract Support programs; unique projects; projects to the size of entities to make them adapt to different young people. In the matter of salvation, therefore, what we have already commented, is that it is the program of emotional well-being and mental health for all the students among the schools; to identify the emotional state of the students in the ordinary centers; to promote the spaces of listening and bonding for the students; the plan of formation of emotional well-being and mental health for all the teachers; to strengthen the teams of counseling and psychologists. In education: the digital education plan to ensure that students are digitally competent. The Coeduca't program, with a gender perspective and affective education. Also from the Department of Health, therefore, the plan for the prevention of the suicide of Catalonia 2021-2025 has been presented. Or from the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Action, the project Odisseu, for the return and employment of young people in the rural world; or the project Planter, which is a virtual office that helps young people to join the agri-food sector. Or from the Department of Universities, that the decree of university preus publics makes a reduction of up to forty_per_cent in the official masters, lowers that adheres to the decrease of thirty_per_cent applied in the course 2020-2021. Or from the Department of Vice Presidency and Digital Policies, a secure internet campaign, to reach the youngest public. Or from the Department of Culture, various bonuses for young people. Or from the Department of Social Rights, to the band that I have commented on in housing matters, so the subjects, obviously, of coordination and education in the school, which is fan of the Directorate General of Youth. Therefore, youth policies are present in all areas of government, and what we need to do through, therefore, different congresses and full monograms, in any case, if necessary, expand them and that they are really useful for what we all want, which is the emancipation of young people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-15-2002.276.0	All right, so thank you very much. We suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine. Thank you.
