ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.1.0	Good morning. Let's resume the session, with the split of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into strategic and business support projects]] [[302-00058/13]] Following the question to the Government on strategic and business support projects presented by the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Progress. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. In the first place, apologize to Councillor Torrent, who for motius d'agenda told me that he couldn't be here today. In the first place, to be new in the morning they make very good faces all, deputies and deputies. [[Rialles.]] A thanks for the presentations by Junts, Esquerra and also for the Ciutadans Group. A support for Mahle's workers, who also speak to the motion and who until the last hour we were trying to negotiate a proposal for support against the lockout, for support to the workers and for obviously the government to pursue negotiations to avoid this lockout. Short and short, as we said with the advisor, we believe, in short, that we need a rethinking of public policies to support the business. It's not all bad, it's not much less, but it does call for a repositioning. Why? Because the message we give to the citizenry, the message we give to the world about how we want to empower our businesses, our product texture, is not the right one. We need a change of focus. Why am I saying that? For many years it has seemed that the industry was indispensible, or that there was no investment. We ask to increase a seventy_per_cent, to recover the seventy_per_cent lost in the last two years in industry. It's been two years, we've gone over the 70 percent. I, in addition, some criticize our home industry. We criticise the great international events, when we had always been no referents. Therefore, we want great international events, we want them well done. We criticise tourism and that people want to come to our house and that we have democratized, too, tourism. Because before they only traveled those who had money; now a lot of people with few resources can also travel. So we do want tourism, but we want it well structured and sustainable. The same thing happens to us with the car. Some, very critical of the car, then seem not to want to take advantage of the transition to an electric vehicle. The same applies to large infrastructures, which can or cannot compete with us – ‘airport, yes,' ‘airport, no. What we believe is that what we believe is that – « Olympic games, yes, « Olympic games, no; « Circuit de Catalunya, yes, « Circuit de Catalunya, no – is to say how we have to do the Olympic games; how we have to do the Circuit de Catalunya ; how we have to make the renewables; how we have to make a good expansion of the port – of the port of Barcelona – ; how we have to do, obviously, good infrastructures. We welcome the Government's approval of the decree to create Business Day, after various groups present to the Commission of Enterprise a proposal so that it is drawn forward. Finally, the Executive Board approved it. We also need a repositioning with a president in front of us and a government that's gone; that's gone and that I think synergies. I don't know if the speech of the other day at the business forum was a way to create synergies. I think everyone there already knew what the president thought, what the government thinks; but I don't know if it's the best place or we've changed the policy of the empty chair, of not going to meetings, for now the policy of the català that is angry where it's going. I think it's important to know, at every moment, what it is to say and not to go to all actions... to go to action, precisely, to resolve, to create complicity and to see how we move forward with projects. And another element that we also told the committee, that I want to bring here today, beyond the issues that we will then vote concretely. I think it's also very important to mull – mull. And I said it and I say it again: the CUP is a mule, we all know it. Common, Ciutadans, us, Junts... I believe that what cannot be, that there is the president in front and the Republican Left Group..., is not at the top of the strategic projects of our country; « no, not the most important. They don't know if they're in favor of..., in consultation with the Olympic Games, they'll vote for it or they'll vote against it; they don't know if at the airport, they'll vote for it or they'll vote against it; they don't know if at Hard Rock, they're in favour or against it; Circuit de Catalunya, etc. I think people are voting for us because we are clear in the citizenry and we say to them: "We want to do this and we want to do it right. And when they say to us: "No, it is that if it is done, it must be done well. Yeah, us, too. If it's done, it's gonna be okay. But it is precisely you, and it is only you who have the highest representation, who must say: "We will do this in this way: sustainable, viable and that is for the citizen of Catalonia, eh? And that I stayed for the proper years, to create progress. As I said, we're betting on a million of the tourist promotion assumptions. Let's ask, too, a compliment from the motions we've already approved. We're going to say we're going to make a plan because we're coming in for investments, because we're coming in for new ventures. And let us not deceive ourselves, we need that – in the following one or in the following two thousand – the enterprises that they left, that their social left, with more or less incidence return to Catalonia. I think we all want this. Therefore, Members, Members, this is the motion that we present with the different points. And, as I said before, a thank you for the talks and the deal we've made with the Junts and Esquerra groups. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.3.0	It has the word now, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.4.0	Yeah, good morning. Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Progress Units present to us in this House a motion on strategic and business support projects, which initially consisted of new points, all of them, to be delivered by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, so that they could be fully absorbed and voted on. They are proposals and petitions to the Government that, in our view, are fully reasonable and should not generate any retribution to parliamentary groups that support the Government of the Generality. I believe that, at this time, we are all aware that the situation of many companies and, therefore, of many workers, is rather delicate; a situation which has even been critical for some companies and workers; a situation which, moreover, has been made worse by the pandemic of covid-19. Many entrepreneurs and workers need to feel the support of the Autonomous Administration. And what they probably claim this young man is to expect the government to make an effort to show its commitment to the productive sectors, which have an impact on the current crisis situation. We already know that the government is a little receptive to many of the opposition's demands. And maybe today will be the case. But when these petitions, these requests, respond to a reality, as is the case, it has a little more complicated to disagree. However, the papers presented for the Republican Left and Junts Group for Catalonia, together as a regular fan – that is to say, the government's papers – have an essay that shows little willingness to show the compromise that the motion asked them. Especially, with the possibility of presenting and, what would be more important, winning the candidacy of the Olympic Winter Games in the Pyrenees; a possibility that, probably – we will prove when this motion is voted –, goes a little further every day; especially, when those who have been until four days ago in front of the separatist governments of the Generality, even though we don't know where they are right now, have publicly shown their setback to the Winter Games. If that's the way to defend a candidacy, he sure as hell won't throw it away. We will support the motion, but the government and its preferred partners – we can and the CUP – will most likely reject it. Since the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group we have presented three papers to the motion, which have been accepted by the PSC and Units Group and which are put to the vote. The first thought introduced a morning leu in point 9 of the original motion, which refers to the Hard Rock project, the recreation and tourist center of Vila-seca and Salou. The government has also submitted drafts at this point, but to distort it and make it clear that its commitment to this project is well nil. It is not, already, that Esquerra Republicana throws away the few with the Hard Rock project, it is that it is definitively oblivious, of this project, that it should be a reality and that many years ago many citizens of Tarragona, of the districts of Camp de Tarragona are waiting, because of the economic impact and the increase of occupation that the inn carries out in the march of this project. But this government, host of the CUP and of Podemos, is not people compromised with this project and serves a little more, like the currency of change, the citizens of Tarragona. The other two are add-ons. We have added a point to urge the Government to work urgently on a plan to improve infrastructure and to re-industrialise the Baix Penedès region, in order to address the economic and employment crisis caused by the lack of investment and the relocation of major industrial enterprises. We ask that this plan be a reality in a maximum number of days, because it has been long overdue for the region to wait for investments and is in Catalonia's occupation index. And we ask, too, that there be a consensus with the locals represented in the Table of the Lower Penedès. We have also added a new point to urge the Government of the Generality to negotiate with the Government of Spain the project defined for the Reus intermodal station, so that this infrastructure becomes a reality as soon as possible. And we do, because we believe it is an infrastructure that will improve the connectivity of Reus airport with the high-speed network and, in the future, with the Tarragona tram train. Let's hope that these proposals, as we would like for the assembly of the young man, have a majority support and pull forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.5.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.6.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. The PSC presents to us a motion on strategic and business support projects, which consists of new points. Together with Esquerra, we have presented eight papers. The first one we were able to deal with yesterday and, therefore, we will vote two thirds of the points in favour and the other third against. Now I'll explain why. For what it does to the transaction agreed yesterday between Esquerra, Junts and PSC, we would like to thank the effort made for the Socialist Group to accept our last-minute addition. Yesterday at midday, a few Members of this Parliament held a meeting with the company committee of the company Mahle, of Vilanova, and they told us something disturbing, and it seems that this multinational company, which wants to relocate the plant of Vilanova, which is a profitable company, would be getting European funds to make another plant in another region. And then this, so we understand that it creates a disturbing precedent, right? And that is why we have added this point that European funds are not being used to promote relocations between the same Member State. And as we know that the Spanish Government has monopolized the management of European funds and that it can condition them, as we have seen, with the law of morosity, which is said..., it is conditional on the compliment of the European norm of morosity, the reception of these European funds, so we also ask that the Next Generation funds do not serve because a company moves from one territory to another, in a Member State. For what it does at point 2, a point: I have seen you compare, quite often, the assumption of the year 2022 with the year 2010. This is the PSC mantra. In one week I listened, in three different commissions, to the same song: to the Commission of Transport, of Universities and Enterprise: « Back to the 2010 levels. All right, let me tell you something. By 2010, the Generality's deficit was €9,000_million. The year you see, the Generality's deficit will be €1,400_million. Therefore, they are not comparable benefits. [[Greetings.]] For what you do at point 5, you ask the Generality for management responsibility in an area where regulation is state. Deputy Ordeig, if you do any management in Madrid and you succeed, let us know, that we will celebrate it together; but, of course, ask ourselves some things that we do not have the capacity to manage yet. For what he does to the Olympic Winter Games, Juntes pushed this candidacy forward, and did so by Councilwoman Budó, who presented all the expedients, who were very well rejected, with Secretary Gerard Figueras. I ran the list to Lleida for Junts on the 14th of February. Every day at the rallies he talked about the Olympic Winter Games: « Give us strength, because if we are in government we will push this candidacy. And, in fact, we won the Lleida election with a 28_percent vote for these winter Olympic games. And, in fact, the Parliament in July has already given a democratic mandate to the Government in the form of a clear vote, so that the Government will present the candidacy, as it has done. Well, listen, I would just say one thing to you: Deputy Jordi Fàbrega, who has been mayor of Seu until recently, made an article to the Secret Diary on November 26 that I highly recommend to you, on the permanent and sustained beneficial impact of which the Summer Olympics of the year 92 to Seu d'Urgell were supposed to have. Collecting the canoeing tests meant a capital shift for the Seu d'Urgell. He made a leap towards the world elite of canoeing, and this became an authentic motor of territories. The Olympic Park of the Secret is the only installation of the world that combines sports activity, the organization of competitions at the highest level, with a touristic use and with the generation of energy, because from the first day it is a sustainable installation energetically. If we did it 30 years ago, now we can do it again. In addition, the impact of the Secret Park went much further than the 92nd and 3rd World and European Championships that have been held: the Seu d'Urgell is the permanent training base for many international sportsmen and teams from all over the world who enjoy the Seu of something they don't have in their countries: eight months with relatively good weather and water not frozen. This in Canada, Russia or Scandinavia do not have it. Therefore, in this sense, therefore, the article by Mr Jordi Fàbrega reminded us very well of the benefits of these games, and without such a positive impact in these last decades, today his could not have accepted the university degree of Sciences of the INEFC's Sport that has been transferred to the University of Lleida. And, besides, I as a counselor, son of re-emergency, that my father studied at his, perhaps the most exciting day as a counselor, that I was for two months, it was the day that we signed the first university face-to-face studies that came to the Pyrenees. Therefore, we want the same for Seu and Pirineu as for Barcelona: a campaign of huge publicity on thousands of millions of people all over the world can know our cultural and natural heritage for fifteen days. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.7.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. And, finally, in this round of defense of the papers, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, the deputy Mr Engelbert Montalà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.8.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, very good morning. In this young man's heart there's a question that's very important: who do we want to lead for Catalonia? Do we want someone to lead to transform, to disperse, to move the country forward? Or do we want someone who understands leadership as the subtitling of the agenda most faced with the status quo? A few weeks ago, in a debate on Lleida's television, we coincided with Mr.Ordeig, who told us that he noticed, that he perceived, that he had a certain lack of leadership from the republican government. Really? "Really? The problem, Mr Ordeig, is that it has been a long time since it made clear that only the leadership understands to follow the conservative economic agenda that emerges from the Socialist Ministry of Economy. Today the PSC brings us a movement that encompasses thematic differences and that has been very good at illustrating how far you are from the leadership. In fact, I think they only aspire to exercise as the political arm of the IBEX 35 in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] He's not nervous – he's not nervous. [[Some applause.]] Leadership is to settle in the same table the discrepant and, like good conductors, to harmonize the melody, even some disfit of some trumpeter who then votes neatly and impulsively against the themes. And that's what the government of the generality does when there's a conflict: sit down and find solutions. And we would do it even harder if the PSOE repealed the labor reform and allowed the Generalitat to regain the status of labor authority, as the PSC has voted on multiple occasions in this Parliament. Leadership is the militant position of the Republican Left MPs a short walk away, with Nissan's workers, with Bosch's workers and yes, with Mahle's workers too, so that they can meet in the same way and with respect for the camels and with all the people who make up the employers, without losing a bit of authority. Leadership is the work of the department with the tools it has, betting for the companies, for the industry of this country, with a decisive contribution to the national pact for the industry, which must be a long-term processor, with programmes where annual contributions are foreseen. Leadership, Mr. Ordeig, is to bring to the chamber assumptions that will lead to Catalonia, advance for universal basic income, a public energy, reduction of ration, struggle against poor menstruals and gratuity from zero to three years. That's leadership. Leadership is to bring and bring here assumptions that represent a step forward in this country's industrial policy, with more than EUR 55_million in support programmes for industry, with EUR 22.3_million in support of entrepreneurship and with EUR 248_million in employment policies. Not only do you spend, sir, but you transform the way it is spent: to make Advance a tool that allows the participation of the Generality in strategic problems of country, that never happens again that the help of the Generality is lost, that serves to increase our capacity of incidence; to ensure public help, that I revert to the public benefit and not only to the private gains. Leadership is when we find counterposal motions from those who govern together the Mollerussa Assembly and the State..., – I forgive – the Mollerussa Assembly – this happens to me to come from Mollerussa –, in the same plethora, and they are able to bring it back to a country consensus that ends up adding in a wide spectrum of Parliament. This is the consensus we found at Prat Airport, where in this Parliament we voted in favour of an international hub, a territorial consensus, environmental criteria, compromises in the fight against climate change and compromises in rail interconnections. And leadership is to defend this compromise as President Aragonès did: working hard, Mr. Ordeig. Meanwhile, AENA, directed for the socialist export Maurici Lucena, only offered us the certainty of ignoring the territory, degrading the environment and the real guarantee of an intercontinental hub. Leadership is also in front of this chant. Leadership, Mr. Orderig, is not the order and command. Leadership is convincing, giving the word to the citizenry and making it the center of political action. And, in this sense, the reviews of item 8 and 9. It's our position and we're not moving from there. That's mulling, Mr. Ordeig. Leadership is to share with the territory the commitment to transform a project to make it to the eyes of the different, sustainable and ambitious world [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , to transform the territory – and I finish, president – and take it to vote in a referendum and not strategically position to pull a bunch of votes short. Leadership is, in short, the best definition of what is being done and will make Republican Left in the future of our society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.9.0	After the defense of the papers presented, then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, Mrs Isabel Lázaro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.10.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, good morning, everyone. Look, we've been listening for days to the separatists, "separatists, socialists, "socialists, communists and "communists," and I'm telling them in their inclusive language to understand me,"... we've been listening to them talking, in this rostrum and in the various commissions, about spending billions of euros on ghost revenues that I don't think they're even believed to have been made. And they are based, moreover, on the espolio to the Catalans. There is no talk of savings, of reducing unnecessary and unnecessary political spending, nor of serious debt reduction, nor of effectively helping businesses, self-employed people, workers and families. Look, we have to organize the items that the separatists have presented in the budgets, with the support of the communists, to allocate them to help the workers, to maintain jobs and to industry in Catalonia. And that is precisely what our parliamentary group is about: solving the real problems of Catalans, promoting quality employment, investing, not spending, working for people and enabling families to move forward. Socialist proponents of this motion, the revenues that reflect these and all the budgets that historically make the left are built from the disproportionate amount of spending, and as paper endures everything, the government first establishes what it wants to spend and from there invents what it needs to enter. That's easy, isn't it? Do you really believe that by putting in a role that the economy is going to grow six and a half percent this is going to be fulfilled? Look, it's a barbarity that the government spends fifty million dollars to finance salaries for wards and extolls as long as we don't invest enough in solving youth unemployment, which exceeds thirty per cent – six times more, for example, than in Germany. It is ridiculous that 49_millions of direct aid be allocated to industrial support programmes while 92_millions are spent on a women's council. I guess to buy multicolor paint, purple lights, absurd propaganda, feminize traffic lights and public furniture... everything very important for women – everything. Do you think that helps women? Nothing for conciliation, nothing for support to motherhood... There is little budgetary effort to strengthen dual vocational training, the network of official language schools or teleworking. I could go on for hours and hours, because the list of budget misappropriations is that it is extremely long. Look, Catalan companies have serious problems: deorbited energy prices, poor communications, inflation that reduces our competitiveness, lack of qualified personnel, excessive bureaucracy and separatist politicians that destabilise the legal and territorial framework of the state. Having said that, of course we will support Mahle's workers. Of course, it is necessary to increase direct allocations to industry, even beyond the 150_millions proposed by his motion. Of course, we have to speed up the delivery of covid funds. Indeed, given the delays in the processing of European aid, it is blushing that the SGP calls for this. Of course we bet on the Hard Rock and the winter games of the Pyrenees and also on the Hermitage, a project that has paralysed the City of Barcelona with the support of the PSC. [[Widow's remorse.]] In short, we are in favour of all projects that generate wealth, prosperity and employment. Socialists, it is absolutely irrelevant to approve your nine proposals and the amendments that have been made, because, as I have said, they are totally incompatible with the Communist budget of the Generalitat. VOX is not resigned to our compatriots living worse every day. That is why, as we have always said, we will be faced with strong, strong, serious and especially vigilant opposition. With regard to the amendments that Citizens have tabled, announce to them that we are going to vote that yes 2 and 3 – above are for my province – and, in fact, we [[remorse of the voice]] , our group..., our group has put forward a proposal for the Baix Penedès with eighteen concrete proposals, because we understand that it is a region that is very damaged. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.11.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.12.0	Thank you. Good morning. The day some people see a communist presupposition... [[Rialles and some applause.]] But, well, let's talk about the young lady. She's a young woman who's got a lot of points, so I'll just focus on a few. To begin, express or manifest that we celebrate that all parliamentary groups are concerned about Mahle's future. But I'd like to make some observations to put into context what Mahle is and what Mahle means to the Garraf. It is a company that could be considered an equivalent of that of SEAT at Baix, Garraf, with some four hundred families that see or see thanks to Mahle, among those that are places of direct work and those that are indirect. But with legislation that allows the company to be closed with two _months of margin; a legislation that allows, in other words, is that it is freely displaced production, and no longer from that it is a company that has three factories in Motilla, or in Palència or in València, but that it moves directly to Poland and Portugal and that carries years preparing for this displacement without there being any possibility of doing anything, when, until a few months ago, the workers were negotiating the new agreement. Show concern and give support to workers is necessary, but the different groups that have responsibilities in different governments also have something more to do and say; they should not just show concern and give support. And they have responsibilities and they have to exercise them. It is important to assume the responsibilities and to plant themselves in front of the multinational. There are various lives. The workers carry days coming here expressing and posing on the table proposed so as to put an end to this disproposal. It is unacceptable that Mahle may have European foundations for the factories of Motilla, Palència and Paterna – it is unacceptable. And the problem is how many more multinationals, how many more companies will find themselves in this situation thanks to legislation that made access to the European Fund more flexible, legislation that makes taxation more difficult on the part of those who want to know with what criteria European funds are shared and what conditions there are later. Therefore, it is clear that here the Spanish Government is planted and does not allow situations such as that which will be produced or may be produced in a few months with Mahle, and that, therefore, it launches a clear message to the address to Germany: "No, not so. But that's it, isn't it? As we ask ourselves, and here we ask the Socialist Party and In Comú Podemos, which are in the Government of the State: how many projects has Mahle submitted for European funds? What's the point? The workers ask for it. Therefore, here we want answers, but also if there are governments that are both Spanish and Catalan with Mahle. Since the Catalan government will tax the facilities, know what they think to do with a sole that is not qualified as industrial and that Mahle wants to use to sell the business. Here the Catalan government must also be able to plant itself and to say no. But this situation shows the need for the Catalan Government to take the initiative for a reindustrialisation and relocation plan in the country and to stop towing large companies in the industry. There is not enough to go to trailer, to take the initiative; the initiative from there public, so that it does not pass what is going on with the Nissan reindustrialization table, which is now a weakness. And finally, since there were those who recommended articles around the Olympic Winter Games, we would recommend Bernat Lavaquiol's article, holder of the Stop Olympic Games platform to Critic, on which we expose the motius – god – to say no to the Olympic Games. But if they don't want to listen to us, no problem. Escoltin Kílian Jornet, Araceli Segarra, President Torra, the fourth secretary of the Bureau, Josefina Lladós, President of the Regional Council of the Alt Urgell, who is from Junts per Catalunya. Listen to all the people in the territory who are saying no to the Olympic Winter Games. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.13.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.14.0	Well, good morning. Well, when we're debating this young man, it's worth remembering the news of the day, isn't it? Today's news is that the weather is down, and that's positive. The weather is down by 74,000 people, more or less, and in Catalonia by a little more than eight thousand people. I think that this is a positive fact and that it is worth keeping it present and contextualizing, because possibly these facts of the day have something to do with some policies and strategies that have been located, in this case, in the vicinity of the State; they have also landed in Catalonia, huh? This bet for internal flexibility against external flexibility, which are ERTOs, keeping people connected; this, too, will keep the productive capacity installed; these help companies not to destroy the installed capacity, or this social listening that has allowed them to maintain a certain internal demand alive. Surely these measures are at the end of these facts of the day; given that we do not have to be cophostists either, because then, when we go astray, we will see that it has a high weight, yet the temporality, which we will have to fight here to change it. But in any case, I want to place the topic of the stage because the young person has to see with this – he has to see with this – with this will to keep the productive activity installed. That's why the young people put the issue of helping businesses, making them more transparent, adapting them, extending them, empowering or prioritising small and medium-sized enterprises in helping. Sounds good to us. We shall vote in favour of these measures which address these issues. The young person also places the will, the need to cooperate between institutions to address the strategic challenges ahead, to be present in all those areas where the industrial future of Catalonia is discussed. That's what it looks like to us, too. It also talks about the reality of some industries, some businesses in Catalonia. Mahle's case – it has come out –, a paradigmatic case of industrial displacement that can, moreover, end up being financed by European foundations. That can't be. This can't be allowed. But Mahle's case also shows some shortcomings in industrial leadership on the part of the Government of Catalonia and also the need to bring up to date the active policies of occupation, all that implies the help to the process of relocation and restructuring that we are living, unfortunately, now in Mahle, but that we can live them in other places. That is why we also understand that this is an important element, just as it is this bet for the industrialisation of the region of Lower Penedès with difficult problems of deindustrialisation and, therefore, of the displacement of small enterprises that still remain. These are elements that we vote in favour. But there are some elements of this young man we don't share. There aren't two that we'll be abstaining from. We will abstain, because it does the effect that they can end up cheating on the lonely; that they make reference, basically, to the one that already places 150_million, the seventy_per_cent of the assumption of policies... Listen, I do not conform with the seventy or with the hundred_ fifty. What I want is for the national pact for industry to give concrete expression to the economic resources needed to make industrial policies that are consensual in the framework of the social dialogue, which is the national pact for industry. I don't want to narrow it down, I don't want to limit now neither numbers nor percentages, what I want is that those strategic lines that agree, it's consensus, it's gifted economically, it's financed. This is the element. The other thing is we end up cheating on the lonely. Before the negotiation is completed, before reaching agreement, limit who are the possibilities to pull out certain industrial strategies of the country. Because they are necessary strategies that must emerge from the social dialogue, from the commitments, but which must also emerge – and we tell you the other day – from a strong government leadership in pulling strategies of real change from our country's industrial base. And three-quarters of the same happens to us with the theme of tourism. We understand that in these moments when we talk about tourism we cannot limit one quantity or another. The main problem of tourism is that we have to deal with what the same social workers in the sector were already calling for, a national agreement for a new tourism model. The current model is exhausted and therefore it is necessary to address and place this repte on the table. There are two elements that we will vote against. They are those elements that place an economic model, an industrial model that is outdated and obsolete. It's the bet for hard rock and winter games. We think that what he's doing is, he's burying resources and a lot of energy that we'd need to free up in order to make these strategic changes based on the challenges the country has, the challenges of inequality, climate change and this industrial innovation that we need. Betting for models like Hard Rock or models like winter games are obsolete bets that immobilize economic resources and immobilize energies to make the changes needed by the country and its people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.15.0	Finally, as long as the Joint Group is not there, it has the word to pronounce on the papers the deputy Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.16.0	Very quick. On behalf of the « Sociolists and Advance Units [[I'll give you the applause.]] Listen, Mr. Montalà, we're living moments of great change and transformation. And the key to the question is what you said: general reflection, who will lead all this? It would be good if you asked your company from Junts for Cat if you had to lead this for the next few years. If you ask us, we're clear: that's not it. So no, because it can't be, as I said, not position itself: yes, tomorrow, no, I don't know tomorrow. Or make a health cord to the party that won the elections in Catalonia [[some applause]] in the investiture, assumptions and big country projects. No, no, it's just that we wouldn't. We... well, we're already showing that we count on you, as we obviously count on the people of the chamber, especially those who don't think like you. So, that's the lead. Leadership is that when there is Nissan's table, which is at a crucial moment, the business advisor goes there – that goes there. Leader is that Mahle..., that we have already made it to the Secretary of Industry that we can study very well on European foundations or not in processes of displacement. We've already done that. Leader is pressupost 2010, 165_million euros for Industry ; pressupost 2022, 50_million euros. You're 50 million euros. We're at EUR 165 million. [[Some applause.]] That's leadership. Leadership is also assuming that, apart from a deficit in 2010, at these times there is a debt of 80,000_million. Therefore, they could also use, also, this debt, therefore, to make some concrete policies. Therefore, general reflection and concrete actions that are presented here. And, obviously, leadership is to go to Europe, it's to go to where our interests are being defended. The Catalans are going to Europe, to the Government of the State, where they need it, there is the king, there is the President of the State or there is anyone who does it, to defend what is ours and to defend what is right. Thank you, MPs, MPs. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.17.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing this young man's vote is gonna do this half before he suspends the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the social economy]] [[302-00064/13]] Let us therefore turn to the new item of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the social economy, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy lady Alba Camps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. With this young man we want to establish a _framework favourable to the development of the solidary economy to the service of people and centered on life. Today a large majority of Parliament will bet on the importance of transforming the economy, putting it at the centre of life, for a more just and dignified society, more inclusive and to fight against inequalities. There's someone who doesn't want to change anything, the usual. Because an economic and social transformation will mean they lose their privileges. They think they're right, but no, they're privileges. It's the same if the poor only increases while the rich few only grows. It is the conservatism of the structures that make us poorer individually and collectively. Our obligation is to always fight always to reverse this situation. I can hardly tell everyone that this is over. With this motion we bet for policies that must take advantage of the moment of transformation and advance towards a model that guarantees the dignity of the work. In the previous question, he spoke of the great gap between different economic models and proposals. On one side, the fraudulent economy, that of exploitation, and on the other side, the transformative economies. Tuesday, in fact, Jordi Albert's company in this very hemisphere made it clear that Glovo is the example of the business model we don't want. Now you take an example of the business model for which we bet. Against the cases of exploitation of the riders appear department cooperatives like Mensakas which, as it is defined, considers their staff people and not numbers of an algorithm, thus prioritizing their interests and rights over capital. The difference is obvious. Another important element of the social economy is inter-cooperation. The idea of winning collectiu, the idea that we are stronger together. In accounts to compete, we make joint transformation. Another example: 8 months ago the Supercoop Manresa opened, the first cooperative supermarket in Catalonia. All the products that come there fulfill at least one of the four requirements: ecology, proximity, fair trade and social responsibility. They grow them, they make others with the same values also grow. What else do we propose in this young man? Protection. Establish a valid control mechanism that actually works under the values of the social and solidary economy. I also told the interrogation. It's a very good idea, it's a very powerful practical idea because they always look for the standard holes, the standard blanks, to adopt its title and then not revert to collectivity in the background and form. More punches, more punches, It is time for us to understand that public procurement is a tool for applying proposals and political action. All types of contracts must always have this social, environmental, feminist, just and responsible vision, and especially the contracting of services to people. We cannot talk about responsible and conscious consumption if the Public Administration is not an example. I want to make a special mention here of the local world as a transformation tool, a change agent and an example of political courage. As the delegate of the government and as the director of an assembly, I was able to capture the strength of municipal politics in the first instance. For this reason, we would like to include in this motion a special mention to the Municipal Social and Solidarity Economy Network. A thanks also to the cooperative athenaeums that ensure this follow-up and, moreover, in a manner close to each people. This is equal of territorial opportunities, political ones that don't belong to the territory and to the territory. Let us go to the central point of the motion: the law of social and solidarity economy, which must enable all these policies to be implemented and which must be done from a cross-cutting perspective. We want a law that applies and involves all departments of the Generality to transform the economy to all levels. We have a lot of work to do, but we also have a lot of work to do, and that's why we put approval on this very spot in the next year 2022. I'm done. We are at a particularly uplifting, critical moment, but also full of opportunities. A current crisis has reinforced the idea of collectivity, network work, local and responsible consumption. A large majority of us have been aware of the need for change. We can choose a respectable change with people and the planet or stay the same and put everyone's future at risk. That's why we're here, to bet on transformations, to bet on changes. That's why we're dealing with these scons. In case we are to protect the interests of a few, we are to defend the welfare of all. And a bold way of doing so is by changing the economic model towards an economy that will facilitate a better future for all, sustainable, feminist, egalitarian, equitable, supportive and just. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.19.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There is now the word to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mr Jordi Munell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, and public who may be following us. Thank you, Congresswoman Camps, for this reason, so we will obviously support it. In any case, also, put in relevancy, from Junts to Catalunya, the importance that the social and solidary economy has to our country. In fact, we are a country in which historically all these exhibitions of fraternity around the economy – from ancient mutual societies or some cooperative athenaeums or, at each village, the consumer cooperative or the cooperative that still exists in many of the small towns – are an exhibition that this type of economy is not a new thing, that we have put this word in the 21st century, but we come from a country of a long tradition of solidarity around economic activities, but also around social life. Therefore, we are grateful, therefore, that the work and the network, the fact of making the network, the network of municipalities for the Social and Solidarity Economy are also valued in this motion. And besides, as has been said, at a time when we have passed and are passing from the pandemic, the social and solidary economy... we have seen so many manifestations to overcome in different senses all this situation that we have been patenting and that we are still patenting. Therefore, in this sense, to put in value that with the young person is to compromise the action of government, also, to promote this law, the law of the social and solidary economy, which, in fact, I would also like to make elements of its referents. In fact, we should pay recently, in this century, in 2003, when the Social and Solidarity Economy Network is created; in 2011, when Barcelona is the European network of this socio-economic movement; in 2014, when a first proposal for a law of social and solidarity economy is presented, eh? And, therefore, this has continued: 2017 is the Association of the Social Economy of Catalonia, which, in fact, promoted a whole participatory movement to make it possible to..., in 2019, the plan of government that at that time the Generality committed itself to developing this participatory process to mark the foundations of the future law; in December 2020, this document of the bases of the law is presented, through a result, as we have said, of collective construction between different founding organizations of the Association of the Social Economy of Catalonia, and in this document it is already collecting, therefore, important participatory bases, very important for this law..., that today, with this motion, we are pushing for the action of government. In fact, on September of this year, the Government, in its Executive Board, approved the preliminary memorandum of the preliminary draft law on social economy and solidarity at the initiative of the Department of Enterprise and Work and continuing, as we say, this task of 2019 and 2014 started. And, therefore, I believe that the government's commitment is there; with this young man, we have just pushed him. What's to be incorporated into this law? Well, therefore, the orientation towards the general interest and the common good, without purpose of work and limited distribution of surplus, the democratic functioning, the social and feminist transformation of our society, the creation of stable and quality occupation, the compromise with the environment, the relation to the territory, transparency, inter-operation, giving an answer to all the challenges that the whole framework of the social and solidarity economy of our country needs to regulate and at the same time encourage. From the youth, too, it speaks, for example, of cooperative housing models as one of the models of this system of social and solidary economy. The commitment of the Catalan Institute of Finance is also called for. Well, in this case, it's just doing, in this case, that already in the year 2020, in the memory of the ICF, it's how they dedicate projects with the objectives of sustainable development of the United Nations, isn't it? I, for example, therefore, up to EUR 24.5 million for themes of net and comparable energy projects, for projects of health and welfare, for themes of co-operative housing, which are also driven by the law, of fact, of housing that is being driven at these times. It is also a question of planning the law of the third sector, amending the law of cooperatives, amending the law of enterprises and providing resources for the transformation of enterprises into cooperatives in the industrial sector as a model or as a formula for when there is, therefore, a cessation of activity or retirement of ownership or cases such as some we have discussed today in which ownership decides to leave the enterprise, so that the transformation into a cooperative into viable enterprises can be a resource, as we have said, in a Catalonia that has a lot of experience in this type of economy. In any case, at point 6 we ask for a separate vote, because we do not like the whole idea presented by the CUP Group. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.21.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.22.0	Good morning again. Yes, this young man allows us to talk about some of the consequences that we are seeing of what these two years of pandemic have been, some of the consequences that show the fragility of a global economic model that has prioritized and prioritized the private accumulation of wealth over the equitable resolution of human needs. And Catalonia has not been exempt. In Catalonia, this model has been favoured by economic policies which, among others, have led to the weakening of social protection, productive displacement, as we have seen before in the previous case, the reduction of health expenditure, job insecurity, the residential crisis, insufficient resources for research, the shortage of resources for the primary sector and a lack of capacity to articulate local productive chains in favour of multinational enterprises. It is for this or in these conditions that Catalonia finds itself with a fragile socio-economic fabric to support an economic policy oriented towards the general interest. Therefore, one of the consequences or one of the learnings is the need to change recent policies and move the market from the regulatory task of the economy to social institutions with greater capacity to serve the common good, such as the public sector, the social and solidary economy, trade unionism, reproductive and curative work, as well as a private sector that during the crisis of the covid-19 acted with social, labour and environmental responsibility. In short, that, for a reconstruction that remains of social character, we need to build a new economic model based on a plural and transformative economy that takes into account the public sector, the social and solidary economy and the small and medium-sized company that has been operating all this time, as well as with social, labour and environmental responsibility. Therefore, whether this new economic model or this new economic framework is supported in these three pillars. Because in Catalonia the Catalan product model has been oriented, over the past forty years, like an inverted pyramid, favouring tourism, the real estate sector or the automotive sector, right? and, therefore, there has been a systematic lack of sectors that today have proved essential, such as socio-health, cleanness, trade, logistics, textile production or agriculture. For this reason, one of the first pillars of this new economic model must be a public system that universally guarantees the services necessary for the care of people, at the expense of an industrial sector, which we speak of earlier, relocated and reoriented to a manufacturing of social and environmental impact, positive; a commercial and logistical sector that communicates infrastructure, dignificant occupations and face against platform capitalism; an agricultural sector reoriented to the short cycle, agro-ecological production and food sovereignty, and a sector of resized services. But it has to have a second pillar, which is that of the social and solidary economy. A key player in this new economic model must be co-operativeism and the social and solidary economy. The crisis forces capitalism to rethink in favour of economic democracy, the collective ownership of production media – and to some it seems that it does so much for –, the limitation of the work, the service to the community or the economic location. But here we see or compare or look at each other in other countries and see how, for years, here has not invested in this. Initiatives of the social and solidary economy do not escape the difficulties, and some governments such as the escocès there are 20_million_of_liures, and here we were not or have not been at these heights. In Catalonia, therefore, measures are called for in this sense, which requires a strong involvement of the Catalan social and solidarity economy in this new economic model. The new law of social and solidary economy, the pact for an economy for life, are essential and indispensable elements that must be developed in the next few months in order to be able to respond to all these needs. And I will end with a phrase by Nancy Fraser, who I think fills in what has been the policy for forty years in this country and in which we do not have to fall again: «A society that systematically weakens its social reproduction can endure much. As a society, we want to endure; therefore, we stop weakening everything you have to see with social reproduction and we regulate and incorporate, in this new framework that we need, all those aspects that are essential for the reproduction of life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.23.0	Subsequently, and in order to establish his position after the defense of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Jordi Riba.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.24.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Members, Members, this motion on the social economy sets out, first of all, the necessary and just recognition of the social economy sector in our home; a sector that needs to be replete, since, as is said in the preamble, it represents more than 7,000 organisations and 139_ thousand workers in our home. As I said, emphasising the sector's recognition, the pesso it represents, but also the contribution that in many areas has brought the social and solidary economy to an end in the long run of the pandemic. It is also necessary to make the contribution that this social and solidary economy makes not only at the economic level, but also from the point of view of the values or principles that it brings to the economy and society; the basic values, the basic principles of the social economy, such as equity, work, environmental sustainability, working or acting without a job, the principle of cooperation and compromise. These two last ones think that it would be especially important to put them in storage. After forty years in which the principle of competence has practically been the only impulse vector of economic activity, putting in value that comparison is not just a positive vector, but as much or more effective and necessary as its own competence, I believe that it is important from the point of view to have a diversified economy, an economy rich in all its senses, also from the point of view of values. And as we have seen and commented so only a few minutes ago in the previous motion, the relationship, the compromise with the surrounding, is to say, the relationship in the territory, is also a basic and substantive issue, more in the time we live. But not only can recognition live and prosper the social and solidary economy. That is why we must also get into the concrete elements, and, in this sense, the legislative task, which is our responsibility, must be paramount. As it is said, the law of the social and solidary economy that is planned for 2022_is to be the basic element, the cornerstone of the construction of this impulse; also, as is the case in the motion, the programming and timing of the law of the third sector, the law of cooperatives, the law of enterprises of insertion. For the first, the one we are most interested in, or the one that corresponds most to this motion, the law of social and solidary economy, I want to make manifest and replete, also, its objectives, which, in our opinion, must be fundamental: to position the social and solidary economy at institutional level – to position it better, in this sense – ; to increase the volume of economic activity and the capacity to generate employment in this sector, and also to influence it, especially, I want to make it more important – in the public contract, which was also the opportunity to regulate. In this sense, I think we need to take advantage of the application of the fourth additional clause of the law on public sector contracts relating to the reservation of contracts for entities, especially for special work centres and insertion companies. We have to take the step of stopping it from being a power issue for administrations and to focus on the fact that it is a part, let's say, of the public sector contracting task. It is essential that our share, creating a standard framework for the development of the sector, is effective and appropriate to the needs of the social and solidary economy. This mark is a necessary condition – not enough, but necessary – to create an ecosystem in which the growth of the social and solidary economy is a reality. We must foster the development of an ecosystem in which cooperativeism advances. We are not many models, but in this case it is necessary to look at the case of the region of Emilia-Romagna in the north of Italy, area all over the world with a greater density and contribution to regional GDP coming from the social and solidary economy, and which is based, or better said, has ended up with the result of an ecosystem model that facilitates and promotes the functioning and development of the social and solidary economy. We need to focus, therefore, on this objective. Last and last, a comment. We will vote... go so far as to vote for the totality of the motion, but we do want to make a comment, an element to one of the points, concretely the second, the theme number 2 of the Popular Unity Candidature, concretely, which has become point 6. As I said, we'll vote for it, but there's one thing, let's just say, that worries us, huh? , is a disturbing point, even from the point of view of the consonance that we found in the text, in the wording of this question, with some of the comments, paradoxically or not, that made yesterday the VOX spokesman. We are concerned about excessive references to the issue of domestic demand. It seems to us that we need to talk about relocation, about the economy in the territory, but we do not share the vision of speaking only in terms, let me say 'directly', of self-government. We don't share that concept. Therefore, go ahead with prevention in accordance with this criterion. We are surprised, I insist, or not, that this competition, we understand that the economy must be an open economy, concerned for the economy of the territory, for its development, but that in any case it must look at the functioning of the economy in authentic terms. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.25.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament Sergio Macián has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.26.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are presented today by Esquerra Republicana with a motion on the social and solidarity economy, but if you look at both the inquiry and the motion, you do not say exactly what the social and solidarity economy refers to or what it is, and you should remember that. We are referring here to this set of economic and business activities that carry out a number of entities that aim to pursue the collective interest of their members on the basis of a number of principles: the primacy of people and of the social purpose over capital and profit; autonomous, transparent, democratic and participatory management; the application of the results obtained from the activity on the basis of the work provided; the promotion of internal solidarity; the commitment to the local world; the inclusion of people at risk of social exclusion, which we believe to be very important. The business models that make up the social economy are multiple: they are cooperatives, they are labour societies, they are mutual societies, insertion companies, they are co-fraternities of fishermen, they are foundations and associations of the disability sector. The social economy has a specific weight in Spain very important. Thus, according to Cepes data, the Spanish Business Confederation of the Social Economy, enterprises of the social economy in Spain account for ten_per_cent of GDP in billing, represent more than 43,000 companies and generate more than 2_million direct and indirect jobs. To the social economy belong companies as important as the ONCE, the Mondragon Group, the Ilunion Group, or La Fageda yogurts, of the Garrotxa, all with highly competitive products and services. In short, since VOX we embrace entrepreneurship and support all projects that generate wealth and employment for Catalans, already adopt a business form, already adopt a more cooperative form. However, if one hears the Member of the Republican Left proposing this motion, one reads the question that motivates the motion that we are dealing with today, one cannot help but be surprised when terms such as ‘work exploitation, such as ‘business violence,' models of job insecurity, trying to counter, trying to face two models, that of the traditional enterprise and that of the social economy. It's like a billing motion. And to us, look, without losing sight of the model of the social economy, we would like the same enthusiasm, the same passion that the motion has with the social economy, to have it in helping the thousands of companies SAs and SLs and the autonomous that make up the business fabric of Catalonia and that during the pandemic have gone so badly. In this motion they make an ode to the social economy, yes, but do not do it at the cost of condemning capitalism, the market economy and free trade, because capitalism is also the taxi driver who takes you from home to Parliament, the small bakery company that has set up a « arrow, or the owner of a menu restaurant around the corner. Don't do it at the expense of condemning entrepreneurs and self-employed people, those who get up early in the morning, those who raise Spain every day and generate jobs, and those who you tax. And do not do so either at the expense of criminalizing the traditional company that has constituted the productive fabric of Catalonia and is for profit – yes, it is in the mood to make money – which is perfectly lawful, and even social economy companies have to have profit, because if they do not have profit they will be able to maintain their social values, if they fail to make the efficiency and profitability proper to their entrepreneurial character; in other words: they either have profit or little social work they will be able to do. In short, the model of the social and solidarity economy has to coexist with the model of an inclusive capitalism, formed by enterprises and self-governing with increasing social awareness – many of them have very good programs of corporate social responsibility – which are the ones that mostly create wealth and generate employment in Catalonia. And I hope that the Government will, as I say, help these companies with the same passion, with the same enthusiasm with which it presents this Republican Left motion, with real aid, instead of criminalizing the companies and frying them at taxes. And a final point. We are not going to support this motion that aims to put the structure of Catalonia's social and solidarity economy at the service of supposed green and feminist transformations and also – and I quote textually the document of the law of bases that they intend to approve – at the service of the republican and rupturist project that they intend to build. Therefore, with us do not count for this motion. We bet on the productive fabric of Catalonia, whatever form it intends to cover, business or associative, within a unique regulatory framework and not divided into seventeen realms of taifas. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.27.0	Then, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.28.0	Well, we will support this young man, basically because we understand that this young man is a democracy, an economic democracy. We can hardly speak of full democracy if there is no economic democracy. Political democracy knows what it is, but economic democracy many times we see it. The economic democracy, precisely, is what has come from this motion: to deepen, in some way, the democratization of production processes, the forms of production, the democratisation of forms of distribution, the democratisation of forms of consumption; it is to guarantee the participation of workers in the making of decisions that have to do with the different processes of production and organization of production. And that's important, that's what the cooperative world is about; that's what the labor cooperatives are about, that's what the anonymous labor companies are about, that's what this part of the social and solidary economy that it wants to produce from the guarantee of participation. Also, from this guarantee of the participation of the citizenry in the processes of consumption, of cooperatives of consumption, that there are also, or those processes or those forms of organization, answered to social problems, where it is also from the participation of the persons receiving the service and the participation of the persons providing the service. He has to democratize all these processes. That's why we're giving support, in this young man, because we understand that we need to empower, develop, promote this model of social and solidary economy, from cooperatives, but also those entities that do not want to work, from participatory structures in production or consumption, make it possible for citizens to take a leading role in decisions about social welfare in general, right? Moreover, behind this movement, this proposal to promote the social and solidary economy, also reinforced the values of cooperation against the values of competitiveness. A society advances more from the cooperation of the different, from the cooperation of the difference, from the diversity, than from the competition, which simply wants to cancel one of the different parts, which wants to win one over the other. Cooperation allows everyone to move forward. And that, too, is one of the objectives of the social and solidary economy. It is from these principles that we will vote for a young man who, in the end, the hard core of himself is to demand a law that rules, a law that I assess, a law that I control, a law that promotes the social and solidary economy. We understand that we need to move forward in this model. This model exists in our country is still a very small model, with little density and little intervention capacity. We need a law that makes it easier, a law that promotes it, a law that improves the ability of this model of economy to act more democratic, more participatory, more socially compromised and where it is located. We also need to recognize – and this is also the case – that public administrations are active economic subjects in their activities as suppliers or consumers, as well as in determining the social and economic functioning model of companies. From this point of view, we also understand that it is necessary to reinforce this role of the Administration at the time of promoting these models of social and solidary economy. For these reasons we will support it, because we believe that we urgently need this law that I promote, which rules, which I evaluate and which I develop even more this economic model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.29.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Joan García, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.30.0	President, Members, Members... Well, it brings us the Republican Group, which I want to remind you that it is one of the groups that I support the Government, so I think it is important to know that these proposals too... I have always said that the proposals made by the groups that support the Government many times, even from our point of view..., the question of: and why don't they do it now? But, well, apart from that, it's okay for them to come and explain what they'll probably want to do, because many times these are mechanisms to delay to what many of us think is pending or not yet done. You bring here a defense – and we add it – of the social economy, in this case – and I think it's important, at least we have defended it on various occasions, so that'regulation' is made – and you make a recognition of the importance of the social and solidary economy in Catalonia, of everything that you also assumed during the pandemic. And for us, too, the whole set of workers of this economy is important, which is very varied, which has already been said that it involves a whole set of various companies, that they have, yes, a common thread as the model, and that, therefore, here in the same place, above all at the first points, so they make this recognition. They also speak of the Social Economy Region of Municipis. All right, we totally agree with this part of the case; we recognize it. We also said – and we defended it during the campaign and we defended it, so on different occasions, also in previous legislatures – that regulation is needed, that law is needed. So, so far, we agree with a part of the motion presented by Esquerra Republicana: recognition of the workers, the companies, the initiates and also the need for regulation. We, obviously, where we don't agree so much, are already beginning to draw this law, that for us... I think I would have been enough to propose what needs to be done and we'll talk about it, or we'll talk about it or we'll deal with it in this Parliament. In this case, we will abstain; we do not believe that we are following, or we must be or give support to all the different proposals they make at this point. Yes, it's true that you're talking about transformation tools, you're talking about changing models. And they remind me, from here on out, of all their proposals, so... like some proposals a little naïve – and I'm sorry to tell you, but that's it. I believe that they are confronting, in this case, two models that are not to be confronted, but that what they really have to do is convince, that one is the traditional enterprise, the conjunction of autonomies, which in the end is the industrial and business fabric of Catalonia, the small..., the medium-sized enterprise, above all the small and very small company of Catalonia, and, on the other hand, systems like the cooperative, which, in this case, in many sectors has been essential for making a management of transformation and dynamism of the economy of Catalonia. We think confronting them is a mistake. So, I don't think it's appropriate for us to support everything we suppose to put in more resources because it's transforming the current model, the current industrial fabric, or in the case of the business fabric, into the fabric of cooperatives or the fabric of different growth formulas. I think here..., and here I do want to give my father over this dream that they accepted from the CUP at point 6. Basically, for us what they just said, essentially... is a conversion of the current industrial model. I mean, for us at least, that the traditional model of the small and medium-sized company has to be transformed, to a good part or everything that is possible, into cooperatives, and above all..., and that is what Congressman Ribas told me, which somehow seemed strange to him or, as a minimum, he said that he was upset, was that production had to be directed towards domestic demand. It's autarchy, it's obvious. That can't be... or can't have another definition. What I don't understand – and that's what strange to me – is how the Socialist Group supports this point – I don't understand. It is totally unbelievable that a group defends, like its own, Mr Ribas, which is doing an orientation of production towards internal demand; it is to say, that it is doing the autorquia. I don't know. Then, I suppose they explained it somehow, when they talk to the traditional business fabric and explain to them that you agree with this proposal made by the UPC. But, well, I sometimes don't hear your group. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.31.0	Thank you, Congressman. And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.32.0	Thank you, President. I have never understood that you present collectivist or directly anti-capitalist motions, with what you like to practice capitalism and free trade. Look, I'm going to give you some examples. The deputies of the CUP and the closest in the vision of the world of the commons or Esquerra have a great desire for technical mountain shoes. I like them a lot too, I don't bring them to Parliament, I reserve them for mountain trips, I like them a lot, but I don't get involved in that, everyone who takes care of what he wants. The truth is, they're not exactly cheap. The ones I've seen around here in Parliament – I've noticed – are those that cost between one hundred and twenty and some up to one hundred and fifty. And this is precisely where the magic of free capitalist trade enters. The anti-system cupaire enters the store regented by a conservative botiguer, probably a former Democratic Union voter, and if they started talking about anything about political life they would end up as the rosary of the aurora. Instead – and here is where the magic of free trade to which I referred resides – at the time of capitalist exchange, that is, the cupaire gives the hundred and fifty « euracos to the botiguer and the botiguer gives the flaming slippers to the cupaire, smile and are happy. [[Rialles.]] Don't tell me that it's not wonderful the magic that is capable of achieving capitalism. For some esoteric reason that I have not just understood, what you like to do so often and cause you so much pleasure do not want others to enjoy it and present this type of collectivist motions, full of birds that no one understands and that we evidently reject, because we, unlike you, what we enjoy we would like to enjoy as many people as possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.33.0	And finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of Mrs Alba Camps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.34.0	Thank you, President. To thank again the collaboration of the parliamentary groups that have made better the proposal of the initial motion and the gathering of others who, even though they have not introduced papers, will give support to the point of this motion. Thanks to the People's Uniting Candidacy for making Aescat and the Economics for Life Pact, an entity that in a much broader way represents the fabric of the social and solidary economy of our country and that has driven this pact to which it refers, a pact that ultimately speaks of the same thing that we speak in this motion and seeks the same objectives and, moreover, that the Republican Left Group signed. Therefore, one hundred_per_cent of agreement. After listening to all of you, no doubt – no doubt – about the need for conversion of some of the business models that have already been shown at this time, they have proved to be incompatible with the great goals that we also endorse: sustainability, feminism, innovation, among others. When someone puts that pin of all colors that we sometimes carry to the flap, which refers to the goal of sustainable development, we want to believe that it does so because it is precisely in favour of this development and, therefore, it is in favour of all the points of this young man. After listening to some clubs, let's reiterate: this is the way forward; not in a way that exclodates other economic forms as tried to be seen, but with all the strength and conviction it requires. And that's why the citizen's deputy is asking, isn't it? Why don't we do it already if we're a group that we were in the government. The answer is that it's not government inaction, it's that you don't know the proposals you're making, because the Directorate General for Social and Solidary Economy is the driving force behind this law and, in addition, it's putting much more historical imports on the assumption than the 20_million euros you're talking about. Currently assumed 50_million, of a total of the assumed for the general direction of 250_million euros. So, there's no such thing as volunteering. Things are good and good. Convinced that the organizational formulas of our society have shown their flaws; convinced that there are alternatives and different perspectives, an easy conclusion: the economies that think of the welfare of people and, therefore, of society, are those that direct us towards a safer future for all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.35.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna do this noon before he suspends the session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into cultural policies]] [[302-00059/13]] And let's get to the top of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on cultural policies, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. You have the word, to make your presentation, Mrs. Rocio Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.36.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, good morning. We present this motion of defense and of the necessary impulse of cultural policies because we are concerned, and very much, with the salvation of the Catalan cultural sector. Because the pandemic has come to exacerbate its situation of lack of political priority and years of general government detail. Culture has been abandoned and there has been no real country commitment and no real support has been given to the sector. We believe that it will now be very difficult to reverse this situation, because immediately, one day at a time, one cannot recover an economic sector that has experienced years of improvisation, instability in the face of the department and that has not driven ambitious public policies. We have to move as fast as possible to get the culture out of the drill where they brought it. We want to believe that the government is aware of the difficult situation faced by people of culture and cultural enterprises and that they will strive to recover it. Culture is the fourth pillar of the welfare state, it's social cohesion and it's industry; it's a right of citizenship that identifies advanced societies. Official data say that culture in Catalonia accounts for 3.5_percent of GDP and 2020 generated 100_000 direct jobs. It is not a smaller data; also, because behind numbers and percentages there are people, there are families who work and give a public service to citizens, to all of us; because years ago it is claimed on the street and it is widely shared and motivated to fight, also, for the cultural sectors, which, as you know, were constituted on the Acta Cultura 2_% platform. It is therefore necessary to prioritize the support for creativity, the strength and value of a society, and that this is of quality and, also, to guarantee its projection. It is necessary to defend and guarantee production and creation in Catalonia, respecting all its cultural and linguistic diversity, such as the multilingual society we are. This also means promoting lines of cultural production in Catalan and also in the official languages of the territory. Yes, we must protect the català, in clear difficulty in its social use, and we must also seek consensus and broad agreement. Cultural production in Catalonia must be protected in Spanish language as well, and also in the Aranes. Catalonia needs culture, and culture needs Catalonia, all of it, not just a part, attentive to this plurality and diversity that we are. The Generality has not given enough support to professionals, businesses or cultural industries; nor has it given priority to amateur associations. But this situation needs to be reversed, and we think we need to find these broad consensuses to work on this line. It is the one that claims the culture of Catalonia. And for our group, it's also a priority. Because the Socialist Party has always regarded culture as a strategic line, because culture is also economic and social policy. And it's also an impulse to cultural consumption. For the moment, the Culture Council has not created – at least, for which we have seen – plans to promote lines of support to generate new publics to replenish cinemas, theatres, concert halls and strengthen productions in performing arts. It is necessary and urgent that the Government act and that it also do so by looking at the audiovisual sector, promoting promotional campaigns to increase audiovisual consumption in Catalonia, with more public cinemas and supporting productions created in Catalonia. Also expand the offer in Catalan cinema, without forgetting the Catalan productions that is fan in Spanish language. We want the government to think about culture, to prioritize it, to promote measures for the recovery of culture, to overcome the crisis in the sector, which must also drive economic recovery, because it generates wealth and social cohesion. And what you do in the context of the territory, also the towns and cities of Catalonia, rural Catalonia and the mountains, guaranteeing equal opportunities for all Catalans and all Catalans in access and training in artistic teachings and also in cultural consumption. We have a clear and well-known commitment to the cultural sectors that it sees all over the world. We have and are an alternative to the cultural policies we think Catalonia needs. And that's why we introduced this young man. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.37.0	Then, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mrs Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.38.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... well, we come here to debate a young man's sense of which a little bit is missing. The group proposing saying things that sound good: "Treat the culture of drilling, "give support to culture, "end with distention to culture, "attend the cultural sectors, besieged of reversal, above all of seriousness. But just as things are, given the cultural, political and even judicial moment that we have to reach, today is not going to make it look like it's working for Catalonia's culture without taking the bull for the money. And he knows a lot about us, but the bull of Catalan culture is the language. I do not say, the Government of the Generality said, that it has made a new monolingual offensive and a new wave against bilingualism its cultural and political priority, not to mention its raison d'être. It must be said that in this they are sincere, do not deceive, do not store the oar. They say they want to return to the immersion starting point, to the great linguistic consensus of the eighty years. The problem is that all consent has to be put by the other people. They only possess the hispanophobia, command and command. Look, I honestly don't understand the feeling of this young man, that we were going to try, obviously, on the subject..., when you ask very timidly to support creation in castle, we were also going to try, as at least, to introduce the percentages. I insist, the smallest percentages that the courts have just said that they should be in teaching, one twenty-five percent. We knew that they would not vote for us – we knew that they would not vote for us – because... you are in what you are in. But, man, one thing is not to take these items and, in turn, to take items from government groups, that the few positive things that this young man has are still equal to them. Or, you, who are making some pertinent reflections on the need to arrive as soon as possible better at two percent of the cultural assumption, so you have accepted items that still delay this effort more and, well, that generally do the same..., I mean, in a way, let's say it, so with this young man we can almost do this, you see? A paper boat, isn't it? And there it is. I mean, we don't understand why you're here to make it look like culture matters if it doesn't matter at the time of truth. You're allowing, like Grupo Socialists, a premise of culture that's already very right – that's already very right – and that about, let's just say, it's a doped assumption, because it's like it's a presumption of an honest generality, that all the money is spent on a drug, on a very concrete drug, that's hispanophobia, that's non-cultural war, not out of culture, but against language. Can't protect the català attacking the castle. I mean, I don't know what else it takes to make it happen that this only leads to a Cainite culture, a false culture, a doped culture. The current Generality speaks and acts as if it were a planet of apes, where an oppressed race speaks català and a glue of little domineers speak castle. In his Francoist, not to say pornographic, vision of linguistic and cultural politics, one language, I insist, has only felt slaving the other. They hate bilingualism because they fear freedom and, above all, they fear those who do not hate anyone. What we think of català and love Spanish without manies and complexes. Clearly, then up the Socialist Party to give useful voting lessons. And the useful vote, for what? For what? Why at the time of defending the authentic richness and plurality of Catalan culture, do you not search for them, who always have another job? Look, bilingualism is not saying one thing and doing another. It's not having a double speech about the language. It is not asked in interviews to the diary that respect the judicial sentences, the twenty-i-five_per_cent, and then vote against in this chamber. Look, with which he is falling, with the ferocity with which hispanophobia again manifests itself in this chamber, in the media, in the street and in social networks, it is not to be received to come and profile. Do you want to be helpful? Don't whitewash a cultural policy that wants us divided and faced. Fix it, help us fix it. Take up the demand, the minimum demand, that at least twenty-five per cent of the educational and cultural efforts made on this earth be made in favor of Castilian, an unjustly demonized co-official language. Take seriously the two_per_cent and please don't commulgate with mill wheels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.39.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the word Mr Pep Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.40.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... in this young man there is a text and a subtext. The text, like the title, tells us that it is necessary to promote all cultural policies and possible resources to reactivate culture. We agree, obviously. In the text they also want to boost català to cinema. Welcome. They also want to promote audiovisuals, the performing arts, the film industry and help, in addition, popular culture and cultural associationism. Excellent. For all this and because they have accepted some of our papers we will vote for a few points of this young man. Now, you're gonna have to let me put them in front of you and your party. Because, beyond the text we vote for, there is the subtext. The subtext is so simple: the Spanish language is unprotected by the Generality. And this you started well, very well, in the inquiry, especially when you said textually: "We need to strengthen and advance the model of linguistic immersion promoted in the eighties. And he was talking about those pioneers of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Cornellà, etc. You're right, we need to strengthen it, because it was a good model for achieving social cohesion and equal opportunities for all Catalans. And we have to keep feeling it. But you feel your party must explain to us how it is compatible with the feeling of the twenty-five percent castle in the teaching that your government in Madrid says it has to be executed. We sincerely hope that the PSC is maintained in the consensus for the català and the school. But they have to make it clear. Are you in favor of immersion or dynamite it? We'll wait for your answer. Because if there's a language threatened, it's the català, not the castle. Miri, I'll give you some data once, in the words of the director of the Cervantes Institute, Luis García Montero. Says textually: « In these thirty years of operation of the Cervantes Institute, Spanish has grown a seventy_per_cent by speaking. That's 240 million more speakers all over the world until it reaches 591 million. Is that the definition of an unprotected language? , from a back-to-back language? Or maybe the question is how many more speakers do you need to add the castle to Catalonia? Ask them to wait for an answer, too. Because you also said, and it pleased us: "We want to protect all the co-official languages with the new audiovisual communication law. But we need to put them back in front of the lookout, and I'm telling them to get out of there deformed. I'll start with the principle. More than three years ago – more than three years ago – a European Audiovisual Communication Directive was published to bring the sector up to date on the basis of the great changes that have taken place in recent years and, above all – above all – to protect the cultural and linguistic diversity of all European countries. There were two years of deadlines for transposing this directive into the laws of the states and territories that have powers to do so, such as now Catalonia, and all the states of the European Union have made it except one, Spain, that went more than a year late and what is missing for what you see. They made a foreword that only took into account the castle. They've made a draft of the law that they've fooled their excluded trading partner with a few wreaths, and we still need to feel the Spanish public radio as it laughs at how it's said to squid in Catalan. And that doesn't bother them, it only bothers TV3. The law passed for the most progressive government in history does not complete what is fundamental in the European directive and which also says the Spanish Constitution itself: the protection of linguistic diversity. Don't protect her. And it proves again that no Spanish girl will ever shield the català. Is it that we only care that the numbers that the Cervantes Institute presents every year are more talkative? If it's the cost of losing català, how's it going? Wait for it not, honestly. But don't come here to make the speech saying that the generality has to protect the castle more. In short, Spain, as in the state, has no interest in the Catalan language, the Basque language or the Galician language. He tells them every year the Council of Europe in his reports and never does. Both PSOE governments and PP governments. And I'm going back to asking: where's the PSC? Wait for an answer. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.41.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. And then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the paragraph of the deputy Irene Aragonès.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Well, first of all to thank Congresswoman Garcia the good predisposition to reach agreement on this motion that they present on cultural policies. A young man who, as we have been able to follow these past weeks, puts on the table different objectives that will settle down in the most ambitious and greatest assumption of history, the highest of history, in culture. A presupposition that clearly bets for culture: a 28,3_per_cent more, respects the last approved accounts. These resources, as we have already taken the compromise in the general policy debate – and today we do it again before this motion – are approaching the two-per-cent path, as at most, at the end of the term of office. On the Law 20/2010, from the cinema in català, share in absolute that it has not been enough, despite the efforts made by the Generality to reach collaboration agreements with the cinematographic distributors. Tanmateix, also highlight the obvious lack of support of the different Spanish governments, of the Spanish State, to facilitate..., or continue, to avoid and pose inconveniences in facilitating this statutory deployment of the Law. Despite this, this new Republican government is already working to shake this reality and solve it. This 2022 we will post, we will allocate 25_million euros to lines of help to the audiovisual sector. For what we did at two points where we couldn't reach agreement, 3 and 4, although we tried to do so with the papers and then talking to you to get to a deal, we can't share in absolute putting at the same level the situation of the català as that of the castle. Both in the audiovisual sector and in the editorial sector, the català needs much more support and help than the castle. The audio-visual, as I said, 25 million help. And for what he does to the literary, it means that the existing lines of grants already include writers in català and castella. The consultancy will also devote €5 million to ensuring a greater presence of audiovisual products doubled or subtitled in català, which represents an increase of the sixty-eight_per_cent. Midjana data: only one of the three books that come to Catalonia is in Catalan. We believe in a country of literary creation, and that is why the premise of subsidies from the Institution of Catalan Letters for creators, translators, articulators, promotion of literature, reading clubs, literary studies, publication of singular works and translation of literary works, goes from 1,45_million euros to 2,2_million euros. Let us celebrate, however, that he sets the motion and that with this motion he generates this debate. Because in his plan of government, presented for you as the alternate government of Catalonia, it is worrying to see that in the culture department – and, certainly, there are two poorly counted pages of the fifty-two in total – there is no single reference to Catalonia or the audiovisual sector. A little curious. In the last three points, the 5, the 6 and the 7, aggravate the accepted exams. It is important to focus on public development measures, both in the performing arts, as well as in cinema and audiovisual. And, for this reason, the €3.8 million go to the cultural equipment market, and an increase of fifty-five percent to the creation, production, exhibition of visual arts and performing music. On language, we have already recovered the Language Policy Secretary and the Government will allocate 17.3 per cent more resources to improve language accessibility. In the last point of the motion, put emphasis on this presuppositional growth of the Secretary of Popular Culture and Associationism. As you see, we make every effort to promote language and ensure free access to culture. What remains clear is that we need all the funding to protect the language and culture of our country, not to ask permission from anyone, not to ask permission to produce, promote and enhance what enriches us and defines us as the country: a republic that remains committed to a cultural system of reference, an inclusive, green, feminist and democratic cultural system. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.43.0	After the defense of the papers presented, he continues to have the word to fix his position, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians VOX, Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.44.0	Thank you very much, President. Benvolguda senyora consellera, deputats..., emerges from this motion the objective of reversing the economic crisis caused by covid-19 in the cultural industry through more public investment; purpose that we share and fully support. But I wonder if this really is the reason for the motion that brings up today the PSC, due to the marked contradictory character already perceptible in the original text, but that certainly reaches a level of extreme inconsistency after incorporating the amendments that have been presented by the groups of the Government, d'Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, in an exercise of commendable contortionism, worthy of a circus artist. On the one hand, the PSC proclaims itself as active and passive the leader of the opposition to the Government and its separatist drift; but, on the other hand, it is subject to the usual blackmail to which the separatist parties submit to the governments of the PSOE, who has no inconvenience in letting them act according to their separatist desires in Catalonia, in exchange for their support to the Government in Madrid. In the Committee on Culture, the PSC has criticised the Government harshly – and rightly so, as we have done in the VOX Parliamentary Group – for failing to comply with the government's agreement to allocate at least two per cent of the Generalitat budget to Culture, since in order to reach this agreement at the end of the parliamentary term, there would have to be an increase of forty per cent in the budgets we are discussing in 2022, when in reality only 26.5 has been reached. The Actua Cultura 2_% platform itself, has denounced the government's recent non-compliance and, therefore, the false electoral promise of Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya. Well, although in paragraph 1 of this motion the PSC originally demanded that it reach two_per_cent, it had no hesitation in renouncing its principles and obeying the Government's slogan until it had reached the following in the final text: « Gradually reach two_per_cent. Yes, sir. These are their principles, but if they don't like them, they have others. More incongruities: the Socialist Group in the Committee on Education, this Monday, voted against implementing the judicial decisions of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, which agree to establish teaching in Spanish in percentages not less than twenty-five per cent in all Catalan public centres. It is curious that the PSC is against the fact that the quotas for the twenty-five per cent of the Spanish are met at school, at least, and yet it does ask for a percentage higher than twenty-five per cent for the quotas for cinema in Catalan in point 2 of this motion. This should be understood when they criticize the law of cinema, Law 20/2010, of cinema. I ask you: taking advantage of your idyll with Esquerra Republicana and Junts, gentlemen of the PSC, why have you not required them to comply with another of their governing agreements, namely that of lowering to four_per_cent the cultural VAT? On the other hand, you propose, in point 4, to support associations of writers from Catalonia and the editorial sector in Castilian. We agree. In the same way that we agree to support production in Catalan. But if in the Culture budgets of 2022 47_million are allocated to the promotion of the Catalan language and not a single euro for the promotion of the Spanish language, you will already tell me how you will achieve it. In short, in order to reactivate the cultural sector after the crisis, our proposal is the granting of grants, accessible credit lines and the assignment of spaces, regardless of the language, since we live in a bilingual society. We must enhance the freedom of cultural creation, without prioritizing Catalan to the detriment of Spanish, so that cultural creation is not the privilege of a few who fulfil an ideological agenda. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.45.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning, the Member of Parliament, Maria Dolors Sabater, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, MPs, MPs, Councillors, everyone who is following us in this House... Well; first of all, Mrs Garcia and her group, who today is talking about culture in plenary, because culture is a necessity, a driving force for social progress, and access to culture is a basic, universal and inalienable social right; a right that we are not guaranteeing. What happens is that then, in the presentation that you made and in the content of the young man there are some things that grow, aren't there? You were here a while ago demanding plurilingualism, here in Catalonia, and in Madrid you're in charge, aren't you? , in immersion, with the feeling of immersion, with tripijoc in the subject of audiovisuals. But all right, let's split it up. At the first point, too, in relation to the deal they made with the government: it would only be missing if it did not arrive at two per cent, it is the investment agreement. And it would have to be fifty percent. We find here that you only need to focus on cultural industries and it is important to bear in mind that the whole cultural sector, which has suffered from the difficult consequences of the covid, is already in a situation of precariousness and intermittency. It is necessary to eradicate practical ills in relation to the contracting of artists, both from public administrations and private ones. That's why they don't talk about it, and it's important to keep it in mind, because the most important precariousness that the whole sector has had, not just the art, but also all the workers that make culture possible – technicians, climbers... – is that, at the time the performances are over, they have gone unworkable. And there has to be a contractual relationship, a labor relationship. Are we talking about the movies? Very curious, isn't it? And, besides, the deal you've made. Home, Mrs. Aragonès, you said that a lot of efforts have been made with cinema, but it did not apply. the law of the cinema of Catalonia provides a rule of penalties for the non-fulfilment of the articles that impose the quotas of cinema in català, and this law has not applied. The application of the law would represent a better and an advent of the català in cinemas of the country that today has a very small percentage of offer. In 2018, only a 2.1_per_cent of projections were in Catalan, when what the law says is that it should be the twenty-i-five_per_cent. Keep going. We don't like it, either, that I talked about keeping the lines of support for popular culture, because it's about modifying them, improving them. Because the current line, the current line that we have carried so far, has not led us to the sufficient consolidation of popular culture in its role of social cohesion. But let's get to the language thing. Of course, we do not vote in favour of the points you consider to be in a bilingual situation. It can't treat what's different the same way. And you know perfectly well that leaving a minority language without protection, under the laws of the market and in competition with a protected language throughout a state structure, such as Spanish, converted into Spanish, is to bring it to extinction. This minority language means that, for example, the xifra of publications for 2018 was the lowest since 2012, and that, therefore, the català has to be promoted and given support. And, finally, I would say to the government, to the governing party, that they take part in the fight for the català in a firm way, that there are no limits in the defense of the català, they do not make concessions to the PSC, they do not make them here, they do not, especially, in Madrid – because the PSC here says some things, in Madrid says some other, and makes some others–, and the stocks that we are recovering against the language..., the continuous minority of the language requires courage, a position, and also requires symbolism. And I invite you to join, as we approved the language movement a few days ago, this gesture of not only attending to the media in Catalan, in the public statements of the institution not making use of any more language than Catalan to show this firmness. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.47.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.48.0	Thank you, President. A point before entering the question of the young man. We've seen the length of this House... since the same day, it's been talking about language, well, every 20 minutes or every five minutes. And we, from In Comú We can, believe, defend, in fact, that linguistic policies – it is a question that we have commented to the Committee on Culture – should be, in a cross-cutting way, treated from the Presidency or from the Vice-President. There has been talk of the Catalan language at school, there has been talk of the Catalan language – there will be talk later – of justice, there has been talk of health; then, the transversality of cultural policies, and as this, at a later stage, of negotiating assumptions, it is very clear that linguistic policies are being pushed forward, but they must somehow clash with cultural policies, which have been historically obliterated. So, then, we will defend that this should be the perspective. Already entering into themes, the importance of giving support and centrality to culture is out of discussion, not only in the report, but also at the level of assumptions. A sector that is hard to recover from the pandemic and, as is well known, has historically been characterized by an endemic job insecurity of all the workers, workers and professionals who make culture possible, not just as a consumer good, but as a right. And this perspective of right, which the government has stated in principle that it wants to materialize in a perspective of cultural rights, is what we should walk to. And so, that this young man returned a little more to claim two percent of the Generality's total budget does not bring us anything new. Besides, the assumptions of this year, 2022, should have raised a fifty-per-cent bid, at least, and we've stayed..., we haven't made it to the thirty yet. So here we think we're going to have to push the administration cart, which, even if we have a smaller assumption, as the Barcelona Assembly may be, allocates a six-per-cent of its assumption to Culture, because this... is about defending culture as cultural rights. And already entering into more specific issues of the movement, we strive that we are fully aligned with the goal of maintaining and strengthening support lines to entities of the popular culture area. And here, in the realm of a society as culturally diverse as Catalan, it is also necessary to strengthen and transform the criteria we have, to consolidate as cultural rights..., and to consolidate the cultural practices of all the cultures we live and live in Catalonia. Then we should incorporate more of popular cultures in plural, because all those cultural practices that come from all walks of life, but they are in Catalonia, as they are in Catalonia they are also Catalan popular culture. We can also fully agree to increase assumptions, and support programs for the audiovisual and cinema sector. Some years ago in Catalonia, we were leading the cultural creation of the audiovisual industry, but we lost this, and we also lost it on the basis of exporting human capital. How do we want good actresses, directors, producers and technicians if, for example, the movie A monster comes to worm, from Barcelona Juan Antonio Bayona, takes away the prize of the Academy of Cinema Català, but they have continued to shoot at the Regne Unit and the protagonist was Sigourney Weaver, for example? And here's the question..., it's not about where it was done, but about the 27,000 workers or the 27,000 families who need public recollection to be able to work, all this equipment, production equipment, catering equipment, all the services that are needed and that Catalonia has stopped winning. Catalonia is also an extraordinarily fertile country on the land of literary creation. We are a country of authors and authors with a higher level of publication of proportional books than other countries around us, but that is not the level of reading we have. Then here we have to strengthen the edition, we have to strengthen the literary creation, but also a public reading plan that must follow this spirit, right? And before that, a point, too, which has been said before, respects the principle of linguistic discrimination of the Catalan language. The aim of linguistic normalization is, in the words of the Spanish Constitutional Court, to ensure respect and to promote the use of the language of the autonomous and co-official community. And here we will not object to the institutional support of cultural action in its conjunction, if produced in the language that follows, but always from the respect of the principle of positive discrimination of the Catalan language, not only because it is that of Catalonia, as established by the Statute, but because it is in the state of emergency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.49.0	And, finally, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.50.0	Thank you, President. In a very short way. Simply to move support to the motion, and separate vote from points 2, 5, 6 and 7, which we will abstain from. Basically, because we support it, we consider that they have a vision of Catalan culture in its conjunction, without any type of harm, and, in change, of those we ask for separate votes and we will abstain, we understand that they deepen with this obsession malaltise in the linguistic question as the only parameter to measure the quality of Catalan culture. I believe that this has not been produced for Catalan culture. It is obvious that insisting on this line will not be positive and therefore at these points we cannot give support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.51.0	Thank you very much. So finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mrs Rocio Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.52.0	All right, thank you. We agree with the group of commons in this cross-sectionality of language, so we have also expressed it, but also in the need to strengthen this consensus. And we remind the VOX deputy that our spokesman defended the Education Commission's vote against his deputy. We do not share his model of education and, obviously, we opposed it. Also thank Congresswoman Sabate for her bet on culture. It's true that we don't agree on many things, many things that distaste us. Perhaps you haven't seen all the contributions we want to make to this young man, but we may also have time to share them and keep talking to him. He spoke of the Government of Spain. Just remind him that Catalonia has recently rejected EUR 20 million for co-capitality. And to the governing groups. To thank MP Aragones for her attempt to put points in common. There are some that are insurmountable, obviously, but I think we can always talk and move forward in this consensus and in this rapprochement to the agreement. And I don't know who said it was at least two per cent; no, the one who defended the council in this Parliament was just going beyond two per cent, and that's how we picked it up with Congresswoman Aragonès. And to the representative and deputy of Junts – he asked me many questions –: consent for the català? Yeah. In favor of immersion? Yeah. Do we want to gather the creation and cultural expressions of the cultural sector? Yes, without exclusions, I also take a look at all the culture that makes Catalonia. And from the law of the audiovisual, as you see, there continues to be dialogue and progress. And the PSC is here, too, thank you for reading our alternate government plan. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.53.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is going to do this half before he suspends the session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies]] [[302-00060/13]] And let's move on to the twenty-one point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on housing policies, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pode. To expose her, Mrs Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.54.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Yes, he wanted to start the intervention... because obviously we can't talk about housing and housing emergence without making a reference and a record to the dead family at the burning of the Tetuan Square. And I think you deserve a reflection from all the Members here, and from all the institutions: that we really failed them, when a family has to live in these conditions and die in a fire like they died in. Therefore, I think it's worth it, along with parties and attacks between different levels of institution, to reflect on what system and what society we are setting up and living and creating because we are allowed a family to live as they live and to die the way they have died. [[Greetings.]] Beyond that, we have often denounced the situation of..., the fact that we believe that the housing policies of the Government of Catalonia have been – we have denounced it many times. We believe that the Government of Catalonia is late, but it's been a long time, and that's why we're so far away from meeting the percentages that need public housing, for example, or that's why we're so long away from having the months of emergence without a list of expectations and, in change, we have lists of expectations that they can be two years old. We were critical of it during the inquiry and we still think that the assumptions there are for this year grow, but they don't grow enough, and above all they don't grow on those themes we think they should grow. It is true that there are some better ones and that we have just worked on the basis of the agreements and the talks we have had with the department, between these conversations that we have in assumptions, such as, for example, that in this increase that there is for rehabilitation is taken into account and priority is given to the most vulnerable barrels, where there is more vulnerability and infra-habitation. Or, for example, that with the 60_million that will eventually have to storm and retract there is also a priority of those municipalities that are in high demand areas accredited, with months of emergence and, more importantly, those joints that have also made a clear bet for the storm and retract as a quick mechanism to get habitats to give response to the emergence. Or the 80_million to build public housing, which we will continue to insist that it must be public housing to lloger. We believe that the Generality is very absent from the response to this emergence of housing, but we also believe that we can contribute to it from constructive opposition and that we can make proposals to improve the mechanisms available to the Generality of Catalonia. We know that the Councillor has not been able to accompany us for reasons that go beyond what she has to do with Parliament's activity, but we do want to bring these proposals, which is what we have tried to give concrete expression to the motion we have put to you. Like, for example, the Reallotgem program, a program that we thought could be a good tool, when it was put in the way, that there was a clear will to try to avoid intervening from the mediation and from the follow-up to families who must suffer a disclaimer because they can stay home. So, we think it's a tool that can be useful, that it can be necessary and that what it needs is basically resources, but also to make an assessment of why in the time it's taking right now it couldn't give an answer to all those cases that it might not have given. This is why we have made concrete proposals, which we have also been able to work with the governing groups from the point of view of how to improve this programme, that this assessment should take place, when certain time has passed; that we need to see why we have not been able to conclude contracts at all this time; that we can certainly intervene before the denunciation procedure begins, exhausting all the mechanisms we have of attention to the issue, but also, above all, in the event that the situation cannot be resolved, try to avoid the denunciation process, especially in small cases. We also believe that the requirement that you have to keep the denunciation notice at thirty days should be eliminated, because that leaves a lot of people out and, more importantly, broadens the situation of insecurity. But we also wanted to get into the issue of the sectoral territorial plan of habitating, which, as we have already said to the inquiry, is a plan that up late, that up too late, that must be a useful tool, but a useful tool is not so if there is no presuppositionary compromise. And we believe that this plan must be accompanied by this presuppositional scene that says what are all the resources that are available to solve the objectives that the plan sets. Finally, the months of emergence. I would like to remind everyone that the months of emergency in Catalonia, the eleven months of emergency in different cities but also the Bureau of Catalonia, are all the competence of the Generality of Catalonia. That in the municipal months there also participates the assemblies do not take the responsibility of the Government of Catalonia to the months of emergence, and that who has to make the effort to ensure that these months of emergence do not have the list of expectations is the Government of Catalonia. We refuse to continue to make it easier for responsibilities to be expelled outside, and we intend to take responsibility to everyone. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And finally, on the issue of the housing law that is being processed – and I will say it quickly – I think we all need to agree, that this law is a fact and, above all, that it is in agreement with the organizations. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, and to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.56.0	President, Members... Mrs Segovia, we are today, therefore, with this motion that you present, we say that we can analyse one of these tools that the reality of not having any housing policies for two years ago or allows us to analyse precisely whether we are going for the right way or not. It is obvious – and we saw it yesterday in the law of barrels that you presented, this territorial vulnerability that we have to face, with the reality of the housing emergence that we see and that we have before us and above the table, so every day – that the growth of the poor in Catalonia – indeed, the poor indecent in Catalonia have grown, unlike many other places in the rest of Spain – leads us to know that housing is one of those variables that we believe is real, that what we see or that we are feeling, especially after the pandemic, about these poor indecent is real or real, and it is precisely those that we should face with our social policies. The housing, in the end, for us must be one of the rights..., let's not say it, too, in fact, the Constitution, but it is one of the rights of all Spaniards and I believe that this is why effective policies must be made. This Reallotgem, the Reallotgem program is of these naive proposals that are approved in this Parliament and that after that they do not know how to implement or not to implement properly and do not work. This doesn't work. Why? One: one part, because we believe that – and, moreover, we see, for which we have seen or may have known – less than five per cent of the naked people have been able to gather to this plate– less than five per cent. So this, say, is a variable that is indisputable. That's it. And we believe, that it is, because of the government's inability, in this case, to properly manage the same program. And that's true, or so, one of the great problems that we often find in Catalonia and the Government of the Generality is the inability to manage the proper mechanisms that have been created in this Parliament or created the same government to make or bring to term housing responses, in this case, on which is the clearest and most obvious emergence, that is the Reallocation program. That's for one thing. And, for another, then – and that's what we don't agree with the commons, because I think this is the wrong way, because it doesn't work – it's that to make or finish this reallocation many times you have to negotiate with the owners, with the owners – you have to negotiate. But you can't put conditions on this negotiation – you can't put them –; you can't put conditions on it. They can regulate them, but they can't lay down conditions that are insurmountable and that, in the end, they will do... If we force this lloger to remain five years, possibly this tenor, then we can legitimately say no. [[Susanna Segovia Sánchez makes gestures of disapproval.]] Well, you can tell us... but you can legitimately tell us no. [[Pause.]] No, no, You know, Mrs. Segovia. Or so, it's really a negotiation. We need to be flexible in the negotiation and in this way we can get to increase the result of this program, which is..., I say again, less than five percent of the denuded people have been able to gather there. In the end, reality is what it is – it's what it is – it doesn't work – it doesn't work. We approve naive mechanisms that don't work in this Parliament. We have presented an admonition to the commons, precisely on this subject. We are not surprised that you do not admit yourself, nor will I deceive you; but well, we want to introduce you, precisely because we believe that in this case, this program, the Reallotgem program, was better. About the rest of the young lady's points, we're not in favor. We will not or will not vote in favour of increasing the tax on empty housing for physical persons. I don't think we're going... this isn't the way, exactly. Nor do we agree that official protection policies, official protection habitating, are only – only – to be logged. I think they must also be for sale. In the end, we go to the street; I think we need to talk to the citizenry and they have to answer many times what they want, what the middle class and working class wants in Catalonia, we are still realists. And about some of the other points, as I said, whatever it is, say, the willingness to improve the program, we'll abstain or vote for it, and what we think is a wrong model and that precisely leads us to a..., and sometimes coincide with the diagnosis, to some solutions that this Reallotgem program shows us that they don't work, so we'll vote against it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.57.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, has the words of Mrs Gloria Freixa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.58.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, today's housing policies and the commons, which I obviously take in place because I think they are not just you, but all of us who are very concerned about solving the real housing problems of our citizens. And, in fact, we've come to terms, we've traded. I also want to thank him for thanking all the negotiations, because I believe that the object is common and that we are all pursuing the same. But I would also like, perhaps, today, to do a little reflection, in the sense that it may have cost a little the change that you have suffered from the road, from the "yes, to dig the door, to form part of the parliamentary arch here and in Madrid, and end up having a ministerial portfolio with responsibilities of government. And why am I saying that? Because I understand that we should then coordinate some of the policies we do in Catalonia with those policies we also do in the Spanish State. And that was also related to the reason we have today. Because they're talking about the Reallotgem program. See, all that can get better, then, we'll be there. But it's three months ago that the government approved this program. We understand that in order to evaluate a program, some six_months will be much better in order to achieve a good rating. But I believe that what should be valued here is that the government does take the initiative and establish measures to minimize the lack of State investment in Catalonia, the constant shortcomings of the housing plan, and we are going to give solutions to the citizens of this country. And now we have the lookout. We to Reallotgem, which does three_months that goes, and you to the decree to avoid the denunciations to the Spanish State. This decree, from month to month, we wear a year and a half. Therefore, if in three months we have to evaluate a program, we want to ask if the Government of the State is reviewing and evaluating the indicators of how the moratorium on denunciations works. Have they offered any structural measures of protection against these misdemeanours? Because we look at the government's housing law and there's nothing, I insist, nothing that makes you think that you can end up feeling the most important allure of denunciations of the whole history of democracy. Because that's what's going to happen if these prorogations are over and there's no measure of state law protection. So, okay, we review the Reallotgem, but to the Lord of Ciutadans also tell him that he was giving some data that... If he flies, we can share them: during these three_months– only three_months–, 328 denunciations of the planned 570 have paralyzed. I don't seem to give as much as you said. And we also believe that we must congratulate ourselves on joining the program all kinds of landowners, most of whom want to reach an agreement and thus avoid the denunciation of these families. We do not expect them to congratulate us because they are not very happy to congratulate Junts for Catalonia, but we believe that Reallotgem is a program that could be exported to other places in the State. [[Some applause.]] On the sectoral plan of housing, here we are grateful that they share interest in this sectoral plan, but we also have to say that they either don't know it or they don't want to get to know it, because here they ask us..., to the motion they ask the presuppositional scenario of the plan. And now that you have been able to study our assumptions more, so... you know that the plan already contemplates in the form of estimated costs of the actions of this assumption. On the petition that is also a fan of which is the policy that is to be done in reverse in protected official habitat that is intended exclusively for sale, of course, I think here we think very much in Barcelona and in its metropolitan area, that we know that it has a large number of inhabitants, but we believe that here we also have to leave room for all the municipalities and the whole territory because we decide what interests them, for each territory: if this has to be intended exclusively for sale or we can also give a margin because it is also intended for sale. That's to say, before these lands became nothing, so maybe we could find some solution. So let's let them decide which policies they want to do, and no, from here, come and tell us which policies they need to do. Listen; in the end, listen. And finally, because the young man is long, they're talking about the housing law. The law of housing – you know, because they are part of it – we are working on it by parliamentary groups, we are already in the process of questioning. I believe that from Juntes per Catalunya there has never been a lack of any meeting or appearance, all the dates have always been made easier to find for these meetings, and therefore I believe that we have the right framework to work on this law, where you also found yourself. And, therefore, we want to put this point in this place when we are following the proper parliamentary procedures, we are not..., or we will not play this game, because we here are not looking for headlines, but here we are looking for an effective law that really solves the problems that people have. And, therefore, we will continue to work on this path. All right, all right, I hope we get to a point of detail at these points that we've found here and stop playing with these things that we're working together. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.59.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Pau Morales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.60.0	Well, thank you, President. Deputies and deputies, chamber workers, people who accompany us... a little in the same line that has expressed the company Freixa, thank you for having been able to trade most of the items. Also express that we fully share the purpose of the motion. And, in fact, we share them as long as we believe that we can treat them at once, with all the rigour they deserve, with all the delicacy they deserve, and also, effectively, with all the ambition. Habitat is a subjective right. Any person, any citizen, has the right to develop a decent life project, and therefore to have these basic material elements guaranteed without which it is impossible the freedom that everyone is put to the mouth in this Parliament, but after that we see that it is much more complex to be able to guarantee and secure. This is how Republicans and Republicans always face the housing discussions in a country's framework, Catalonia, in a housing emergency situation, where, despite the fact that we have been able to develop completely pioneering laws – some falls for the Constitutional Court and appeals for the success of the Spanish governments – we have, unfortunately, a jihad of youth emancipation under historical minimums, we have not yet been able to mobilize the housing park that we want and have immense challenges in democratic redistribution, rehabilitation of the housing park in social and cultural terms. If these reps aren't enough, we have a horrificly full of threats of return. And here we want to put it again: it is incomprehensible that it is so difficult to mobilize this park of habitats in the hands of the Sareb, that they come from that bank rescue and that we need for our citizenship. It is incomprehensible no longer to make the Spanish Government or a part of the Spanish Government hear that it should regulate the loguer, but as a minimum – as a minimum – that we should leave those who have decided to take steps in favour of the citizenry, so that we follow it and do not go through it. And we're in this account with successive prorogations, now of 28 genera, of a moratorium decree of denunciations that has unfortunately not stopped all the denunciations that should have ended. But despair is not an option. I could do a lot of work. Since the Government, it has done with the territorial sectoral plan of housing, which was initially approved with the preliminary memory of the Catalan LAU that the Government recently approved, with all the measures; also with the Reallotgem program. And, obviously, also from Parliament, with the laws that we are dealing with and with the assumptions that we need to adopt, which include these 1,000_million euros in housing policies, that will certainly not be enough, but that is the first step we can take right now. And here's where I want to situate why, while sharing the objects of the young man, we also share that it doesn't help at all. We're working on an anti-denomination bill. We have to get to an agreement before the end of the year. We agree, and we will vote in favour, but surely the best way to do this is not to come here now to have some serious discussions in the Chamber, but to have a debate where we have to go working. We will vote in favour of most points. Always improve what the Reallotgem program calls. We also believe that we certainly have to wait a while to be able to make the necessary assessment. At the points where we haven't been able to put ourselves at all I think we'll find ourselves, because I understand that here it's meant to go out and say that the government has to put all the housing on the grocery table, but together it's going to give up doing everything it can, too, to avoid housing emergence on its way and way, and so we believe that this always has a shared solution. Therefore, we will vote in favour of most things, we will find ourselves in those which today we do not yet vote in favour. Agreed to put the maximum weight in the new official protection habitat, in the logger and not in the sale, but the solutions, before such a great emergence, must come from everything, and therefore all the tools will warm us up. Finally, I will not say anything again, Republican Left fulfills its commitments to the citizenry. And that now means approving the anti-denomination law as soon as possible, that it's gone everyone who hasn't joined it yet, and that none of those who were initially on the move, and so everyone goes back to where they shouldn't have moved. Because housing is a basic right and we have to guarantee it between everyone and everyone until the end. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.61.0	Then, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mrs. Eva Candela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.62.0	Thank you, President. Very good morning to everyone. Today we are debating a new motion on housing policies in a week, as Mrs Segovia said, where we have to regret the death of a family in the city of Barcelona in a fire in the area where they live. Without going into the causes of the fire, which the experts will already see, what's a reality is that they don't live in a habitat; they live in a place, and that's what everyone has to trust. We are not responding to one of the main needs of our citizens, the right to decent and adequate housing. We have a lot of work to do, a lot, and we're late. We remembered Mrs Segovia on the 18th, in her inquiry, the expectations we had regarding the assumption of housing policies after the agreements to form a government between the Republican Left and the People's Unity Candidature and the Left with Junts, with so many times named 1,000_million in each fiscal year or to be held during the parliamentary term, that she was on the table during the negotiations with the UPC to give support to the presumption and that, in the end, she failed. Then, the premise was able to pull forward with the forbearance of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pode, which also placed in the focus of the negotiation an increase, I believe, of more than 200_million euros to add to the 749_millions presupposed. We will see how these negotiations ended, because yesterday we were really a little surprised by the intervention of the deputy Jessica Albiach, when he claimed, in his negotiations of the premise, mental salvation, oral salvation and the Catalonia of the trains, but at the moment he made reference to a subject as important as housing. Well, it looks like today's Congressman Morales, of Republican Left, says there will be 1,000_million in the budget for the year 2022. I do not know whether it is because this issue of the premise – we shall see – of housing policies has already passed the negotiation, and, therefore, there is, as the honourable Member says, favorable – that we hope this will continue – or has fallen into the negotiation. Well, focusing on the reason we're dealing with today, we agree with the analysis proposal and the reorientation of the Reallotgem program. And I want to remind you that the month of July was approved in this chamber by a social worker who introduced the Socialist Group where we asked for a line of help to be opened at the time that you were permanently open. I think that between this measure of ours, the reformulation of the Reallotgem and the help of special urgency can make a good battery of help to pull forward for all those families that in a given moment are left without being able to pay the logger. In the territorial area of housing... yes, we agree that a presuppositional scene is to be presented and we will analyse it, including more on the ground, because we have the feeling that this sectoral plan leaves in the hands of the municipalities more responsibilities than they touch them and the Generalitat backs a little. We'll be very careful. Where we can't agree a priori is to say that... the elimination of HPO construction on sale. Why? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No... yes, Congressman. Why? Because many of the habitats that will be destined for social housing policies will be built by private individuals. And the privates, for sure..., if the sole is not qualified as a logger protection habitat, they can make it for sale, as, for example, in the thirty_per_cent of the Terrassa Juntament. A private does habitat of official protection, but can be of sale. It means that we have, a priori, to study it better. I'm summarizing it. What we shall call for will be a separate vote on the agreements. And, with regard to agreement 5, remind Mrs Segovia that we are in the process of proposing urgent measures, in concrete terms we are in the meetings of the inquiry. And, look, it seems to me that what they want to exercise is pressure on parliamentary groups, and at least on our group they won't exercise it. We keep working in jails where we have to work and I'm sure we'll agree. Maybe not everyone you want, but negotiating is how you get along. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.63.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.64.0	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Today we are presented by the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puems with a motion on housing policies in which it makes very varied proposals and which have a very weak common link, practically only unites them that they all use the word 'housing', but good. As I believe all the previous speakers have spoken, we too believe that this motion is out of time, because it has been presented at a time when a new housing law, also supported by Comú Puem, is being debated at the same time in parliamentary proceedings, is being debated, is it not? In fact, even in the final drafting of this motion reference is made to this law in process. It would seem logical to think that, if they have new ideas that they think should be reflected in that law under way, it should be where they try to incorporate their initiatives in this area. And if they're the same ideas, then it seems unnecessary, doesn't it? , to present this motion. But, well, since you've introduced her, let's comment on it. Also, as one of the proposers has commented, it includes topics such as extending the application of the tax on empty housing to individuals as well. From the Parliamentary Group of VOX we are totally against this tax, because it re-registers with another tax the mere possession of a real property that is already recorded by the tax of real property, the commonly called« IBI, right? Tax, tax, tax... that's what you like, huh? Nor do we understand, and one of the previous speakers has also commented, that the construction of officially owned protective housing should be eliminated. What do you have against the owners of officially owned housing? I don't know. Our position on housing, that of our parliamentary group, has already been repeated on several occasions, but first of all I think we need to remember why we have come to this serious situation. And this serious problem has gradually – gradually – been generated for decades by the inaction of the various separatist governments that have ruled Catalonia continuously over the past forty years. And this should be remembered. And these separatist governments have devoted their efforts to the spread of their separatist theses, especially during the last decade, which we call the process, eh? They have devoted huge amounts of public money, of course, to their goal, independence, forgetting the management of everyday affairs as can be investment in housing. That is why the economic crises we have suffered have made the lack of decent housing a serious problem for large groups of society. And, in the face of this serious problem, the competent public administration, the Generalitat de Catalunya – let us not forget, despite its attempts to distract us – should have been able to find a solution, which it has not done. Instead, it seeks, through coercive measures against citizens or businesses, to make those responsible for the need situation of these people and to force them to bear a significant part of the burden of the possible solution. We, VOX, believe that the solution must go in the opposite direction: we must dictate the necessary measures for the creation of wealth and private investment in order to increase the housing stock and lower prices. Thus, most citizens will be able to freely find the housing they need. And surely that's what they don't like, that there are a large majority of citizens who don't need public help and, with it, feel freer. Finally, the Administration, and not the citizens, must be responsible for providing decent housing for Spaniards who cannot have it by their own means. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.65.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word now the deputy Montserrat Vinyets.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.66.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. We would vote in favour of all the points that are presented to the House, but we want to make a whole series of considerations. Of course, we agree that the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Reallotgem program is improved, but we need to re-position on the table that is a small piece that does not advance in the resolution of any problem, that is access to a shelter worthy of all people, and it is clear that we have not just come out. We want to make some considerations about focusing on programs like Reallotgem. We find ourselves in a situation where we come from a structural problem, from a lack of priority of the housing policies of the Catalan Government for years, but we also find ourselves in a structural problem for the action that the Government of the Spanish State has taken in the matter of housing. In the first place, for the systemic situation of infra-financing and for the absolute scarcity of funds through the state housing programs; let alone, the quantities that are given through these state programs. For another group, there was also an absolute lack of action on the issue of legislative policy; the Spanish government's action before the escalator of the real estate bubble caused by the Lehman Brothers crisis was an absolute disaster: it focused on solving the depreciation of the huge real estate assets in favor of banks, with measures of bank rescue and creations of organizations such as Sareb, and, on the other hand, it did not prioritize the rescue of the popular classes. Banks had to rely on their real estate assets to complete the solvency ratios established for European legislation. And here the State had to intervene and did not do so; it disappeared and facilitated the entry of the returnable funds, which do not produce wealth, but what they do is scan the most vulnerable. And this was done through the creation of the invention of the societies, which was sold as the professionalization of the market of wine – beyond reality. The Government of the State, of Mr. Fernández, of this one who says that the CUP devotes itself to buying sabbaticals at convergent stores, and if anything they do is to lighten, before making a sharp genuflection, to all those who go with moccasins and who present themselves to the front..., what the Government of the Spanish State did was to put a red captivator at all the entrance of international sources, who bought huge housing packages and who are speculating with these habitats. Therefore, we must never lose all this before when we face the problems of housing, and we will repeat it as often as necessary. In relation to the territorial area of housing, obviously it is a presuppositional scene. We have also always focused on the need to do this plan, a plan that should have been done since 2008. And, obviously, what you need to bet on for the social logger, and not so much for buying through protection. For what it does to the third point, this plan of rock, totally agree. There is an immediate shock plan and there is also a firm and very concrete demand for Sareb to do the favor of giving free of charge to all the buildings it has in its portfolio, because it is clear that they are not good managers, as the fact that they are now in a state of technical failure, which only hold up because they have made rules and standards ad hoc so that they do not fall into the situation of failure. For what it does to the processing of the law of housing emergence, totally agree. We're part of the ponència. Our agenda is a priority for any other meeting, and it is an urgent need that we approve of this law. For what it does to the expansion of the tax on empty habitats, we are also favorable. I don't think we're gonna let physical people have the condition of great condescensions, either. For us, too, it is important that the touristic municipalities are not left out. And, on the other hand, it's also very important that we go a lot further and that we're going to play a tax – that this is important and that we're going to do a lot of work – that it's the corporate tax, and it's the bonuses that there's in the tax on capital transfers. And you have the strength of the Government of the Spanish State, and that's where you have to deal because this corporate tax, which for companies is zero per cent and which causes these international speculative funds to act on the market without having to pay the corporate tax..., start to tax. And that's what you have to do with laws like the law of the "living that you now bring to Madrid and that touches many things, things that you shouldn't touch, because we understand that they are the competence of this Parliament, and, in turn, everything that is soft on you, so it remains, in our hearing, without touching. Therefore, we place them to continue working on a state law that truly touches foundations and touches essential things. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.67.0	And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.68.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. They have begun the presentation of this young man making a reminder of the disgrace we experienced two days ago in Barcelona with the family... that four members of the family, with two very young children, have lost their lives there. We've lived very close to the assembly, as I can understand. We were in direct contact with social services, and it was a family that was permanently assisted by the social services of the assembly. And they actually lived in very bad conditions, as you said, but they lived in these conditions because the Administration did not have the capacity to offer them habitat. And this I think is the big suspense of public administration in general, isn't it? , the lack of capacity to provide habitat. And, frankly, I think the war they have on the private sector makes it very difficult, doesn't it? And the proof is the operator housing metropolity, which I think is a great initiative but which is six years late, because the first contest was deserted for lack of private trust in the government team or in those that govern, in the general public administration. I believe that it is necessary to differentiate the anti-system occupation from that of vulnerable families; they are two very different problems that have to be addressed in a very different way. And I don't think housing policies can go as far as a decree: it's planning, it's evaluating policies, it's going far beyond what we're doing now, it's acting before the emergency, with a perspective of care. I believe that it is necessary to plan long terms for, above all, foresaw situations of vulnerability which lead, therefore, to a fact of an occupation of a 'living'. We were talking about it yesterday, with the proposal on the subject of barrel law, right? – to modify and redefine proposals that do not work. The thirty_per_cent measure is not working; the yield content measure is not working, that the only result is to expel much of the market's logger habitats to transfer them to the sales market. It is necessary to work with the side effects of the lack of housing, which are very difficult, which is the issue of irregular settlements and occupation mafias– they proliferate, at the Barcelona Assembly, it is a difficult problem– which, moreover, involve problems of safety and health not only for those people who live in those conditions, but also in the neighbourhood and in the vicinity. Today, they're self-organizing to control and monitor these mafias. It's not possible..., it's not a vein pocket, to watch occupations that are making mafias. We have anti-denomination and habitat discipline offices, but I don't know if we're doing enough to ensure that official protection habitats are actually habitats for people in a vulnerable situation or are occupied by landowners or are habitats for people who have been extorted to get that habitat for landowners. That's what we know is happening. That is to say, they are taking care of lives and returning these lives to people who are waiting for the table of housing emergence, who are in a situation of absolute despair and who, therefore, fall into the hands of these mafias. I don't think we need to move the inaction of the administrations to the private side; I think it's a mistake. Whoever invests in building must be able to make the investment profitable. I don't know how many of you have business here, but I have a business, and I have it to earn my life, not to lose money, and we don't have to criminalize it. Who builds and invests in building must be able to make it profitable. Whoever owns a private property must have the freedom to do whatever he wants, including leaving it empty, is his right. The right to private property is a right protected by the Constitution, and you cannot do what you want. We must practice the policy of convincing, not the policy of imposing, because from the time of the collaboration, but from the time of the imposition, doors are locked. And I think that's what's going on right now: they're closing many doors because we're going from taxation, from excessive interference, on the part of the public administration. And I think we need to change the focus of how to tackle this problem and convince those who have a private property, those who build, those who have more than one, that they really have to work with the Administration to facilitate and put on the market the "protected housing" these properties they have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.69.0	I, finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parable of the deputy of En Comú Puem, Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.70.0	Yes, thank you very much. Thanks to the groups that have submitted papers and thanks for being able to reach agreement. And I'll try to take advantage of the two minutes to give you an answer. To the deputy of Ciutadans, who doesn't even see it..., what we've put up is the LAU, or so, the LAU says that the contracts must be five and seven years old. So, what we can't do is, to negotiate with the tenors, to access to enter between the Reallotgem program, to offer them to skip the law. So from this point of view... that's why we didn't accept the puzzle. The tax on empty dwellings, so yes, we believe that it should be extended to the great masters of physics, because they are people who also have some benefits that they must be able to pay for this tax, if they are allowed the luxury of having empty dwellings when there are so many people without a home. And already I can advance them that it is one of the themes that will be of use in the agreement of assumptions that we are working with the government. The habitat of official protection of purchase..., this is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow, and we carry years and decades investing resources in habitat of official protection of sale that has finished to the market and that has not served to have a public park of logger that protects the people who need to access protected habitats. And that's why we're less than two percent of the protected public housing park. Another important issue, the months of emergence. Of course, everyone has to lay down their own... but it's not happening, that's what. And there is only one example: at the Barcelona Board of Emergencies, since 2016, the assembly has put 849 habitats, and the Generality, 255, when the Barcelona Consortium, which is where the Board of Emergencies is also, the sixty_per_cent is of the Generality and the President is the Councillor of Social Rights of the Generality of Catalonia, if they have already updated the change. Therefore, yes, responsibility for everyone, but there are those who have no more, and who have no more to prove with contributions. On the issue of denunciations, I would like to thank that together for Catalonia they are so concerned about denunciations, because I remember that the law of express denunciation held the support of Convergence and Union. I think at the time Congresswoman Freixa was already a part of it, and she gave support to this law of Convergence and Union, yes. So, if they're so worried about the charges, why did they give support to a law that makes people out of it in an express and unwarranted way? And, on the bill of measures, yes, the intention is that we all pressure each other, because it's an urgent law, because it has to come to an agreement that we're not able to reach and we're delaying negotiations. And I think everyone's responsibility is to come to this agreement, also with the organizations that pushed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.71.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna do this noon before he suspends the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the model of follow-up and residence in dependent life]] [[302-00066/13]] And let's get to the twenty-two point of the order of the day, the motion following the inquiry to the Government on the model of follow-up and residence in dependent life, presented for the Popular Unity Application - A New Cycle to Win. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy lady Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.72.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone again, and to greet the entities that accompany us. Let me start today by making a little personal point here in Parliament claiming to be personal as a politician, because what passes through our body and life determines in good measure how we build our ideological position and attitude of struggle. I have participated in the defence movements of the rights of persons with disabilities since childhood, since the sixties of the 20th century. And of that time, and above all of the seventy, there are two important lessons I want to put here... in this plenary. One, which is from the cry of "We want justice and not charity," "We do not want charity, but justice, which is the cry that was hard for us to say enough to those shameful questions that are made on the day we named the subnormal's then. Yes, I'm talking about that beast in which people's charity was sought to care for the people who were called at that time, the people with different abilities..., they were called, without shame, from the supremacy of hegemonic capacitism. Two, which is the result of the construction of alternatives and of the counterpower of community popular action, mainly of families, but not only with a public vocation. The rights conquests of the eighties led us to advanced laws – we had the Lysm to the State, the Law of Integration, the Law of Removal of Barriers – and to a very clear idea, and it was that the public sector..., public policies had to assume as an indicator of progress of a society that really advanced to a republican idea, to a feminist idea, to standards of monitoring the lives of people with dependence..., standards of independent life, dignity, chosen lives, to do everything that tells the resolutions of human rights..., European resolutions, etc. I won't make up for the whole story, but the question is, where have we stayed? What has happened to the eighty, ninety so far because we now have a reality of a mostly violated right that has become a commodity, a model of attention that is not based mostly on support for independent life or that, if it does, many times is at the expense of the precarious work of its workers and workers? This precariousness is an important sign of the sector. Many areas of life have not been accompanied: access to the oci, to culture, to work... Massifized care models, waiting lists, and, above all, the sense that the world is advancing and leaving all this population. We share with the great people..., and brought you here an article from Critic, of the past generation, which is very interesting to read, because it explains how it can turn into a good market attention to dependence, as the sector of the great people is divided into three large blocks and it is similar to what happens with the sector of intellectual disabilities, which is of a minority of public attention, a part of the social initiative of the third sector and the majority of the commercial, with enterprises with no jobs. It's the way we go if there's no brave and effective public intervention. In the course of the negotiations of this motion, of negotiation of the papers – which I thank the groups of the Government and the Socialist Party and the commons for the papers and the effort to negotiate them – there has been an issue on which we have not come out: when we are claiming the best jobs putting the staff to the Siscat, when we are demanding a strong public bet, there seems to be a feeling that this means that we are underprivileging the entities of the third non-profit social base sector that are coming forward. No, no, less of them is to keep them at the front line of the wrong attention line without expectations of being able to solve the issues of job insecurity. Therefore, I ask the groups that today have not joined in voting in favour of the points that make this decided bet towards the transformation of the model of attention to more personalized models, less assistanceists, and to a public model, which I regret and which they vote in favour. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.73.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.74.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... this young man... we agree on many of his points, because we consider that they are obvious; others do not. Nor, in fact, have the papers that we have not presented nor the transactions that at a given time seemed to be possible been accepted. No, it's not, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, uh, it's political, right? The CUP has decided to agree on the vast majority of points with the groups that are raising the Government, even though it is still lowering some of the demands that they initially carry in this motion – they are in the whole right to do so – but, in any case, we consider that in its conjunction this is not a motion that has a content or that there is a substantial change..., among other things, because part of this motion has already been approved in the monogramme of residences that my parliamentary group started on July of last year. How do we agree? That's the case with point 2. We agree that Parliament urges the government to complete the law. We are here: we have to do these things, but the government does not complete the law that approves this Parliament. Also in paragraph 4, which proposes some measures related, therefore, to the strength and the support, the support, the community life and the suffering of persons with disabilities. It is difficult, in fact, to vote against evidences like these and with such good intentions – we also consider that there is little concreteness. We agree on pension reform for people with disabilities. In fact, it is also no novelty, is the recommendation number 18 of the Toledo Pact, translated into an additional arrangement agreed between the PSOE, Unidad Podemos and Junts per Catalunya, which will end up in the proper months in a reform of the regulatory framework established in two royal decrees. Therefore, the compromise has already been acquired. And, as I don't have much time, I'll focus on two aspects that come from some of the points of this motion. First of all, we are advocates of public-private collaboration at the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar – we have said it other times. We want public services, we want public ownership, we want them managed directly by the Administration or by entities in the third sector or by companies. Ownership is not the quality of the service. What is more, the Administration is equipped with the control elements necessary to complete the conditions for which this service is managed for another, for a third. And until we strengthen inspection systems and until our administrations take care of the quality of the services..., then, obviously, not only those that manage companies or entities in the third sector, but those that are also managed by the own Administration, they cannot have quality standards that can be valued. You also talk about working conditions. Indeed, we want good working conditions in the public and private sectors. The conditions of employment – and also in the inspection – of persons working in the management of these services must also be taken into account in the contracts. The speech from "all the public I recognize is that it's attractive and respectable. Now, I only ask those groups that make him serve three things: that they do numbers, that they tell us how much they cost and that they tell us how they will pay, and, if it can be, a quarter, that they apply it there where they govern. Because, as much as they can always use the convenience that when the republic arrives, so, all we will do and independence with all we can, it's a fact that, in practice, some who manage this type of joint service know that it's not possible right now, this internalization. Therefore, yes to a priority in the public management of the services, but not exclusively. It is to ignore who is our residential system in Catalonia, which has been created many years ago. And, therefore, if we want to do something that we can make available to the 3,800 people with disabilities who are demanding a residence or a public square..., if we want to make them go away – the month you see, the year you see – we have to do it through public-private collaboration. All-public speeches and model change speeches are fine, but people need the place now. And every time they see us talking about models and the future... it's fine, but we want to solve their problems, concrete solutions. And it's supposed to be about that, which is why we're here. I, finally, the theme of the special work centres. Another time with the financing: what we are asking is that the financing that he sees from the sectorial of Madrid, which marks what are the resources for the protected work in Catalonia, vagin to stop to the protected work in Catalonia ; that the minimum wage of people with disabilities is paid with the resources that come from the State and do not use to pay other things, which is what was going on and what is going on a long time ago in our country. You, in the case of the CUP, therefore, have bought the government's speech again. It's a speech that's absolutely fake. We cannot pay with the SMI of persons with disabilities other active employment policies, however important they are, because they are, among other things, to complete their rights, which they have marked for the law. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.75.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.76.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, give thanks to the Pere Mitjans Foundation, to the Atheneu Divers and to Dincat, who are accompanying us at this point today, not so much to accompany us, that also, especially for the ingenious work that takes place every day to defend the dignity and rights of people with disabilities applying models that the Administration should apply even more. First of all, we would also like to thank the CUP for its willingness at the time of negotiation of the issues of this motion, which progress we will vote in its totality in favour, since we share the model, we share this vision that personal autonomy should be a public service that is proper to the community, that is adjusted to the moment and autonomy of each person, that facilitates the taking of shared decisions and empowerment. And, in this sense, we already know that there are many studies that tell us about the effects of hyper-institutionalization, in particular in residential macro-centres, in people with disabilities, the negative effects that it has, since it nullifies or hinders the ability to make decisions, responsibility, managed on one's own life, feel these people who are passive objects, right? , attention, receivers of services, and that it takes the ability to assume responsibilities in the processes that form part of his life. And the counselor, when she did the interrogation a couple of weeks ago, was talking about the deinstitutionalization of the cures, wasn't she? We've got to walk here. And that's very good in the report, but it has to materialize with assumptions and with concrete policies. And this is not a question that arises from the political will of this Government, but that it is marked, among other legislative landmarks, by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, which speaks of models that in some way ensure that persons with disabilities can sort out with whom and where they want to live; you serve as a support and assistance to the community; you access community facilities and services, you obviously lock in there, access culture, access to employment and a large number of services. So this model of deinstitutionalization, which looks like it's innovative and it looks like it's a question that's been being talked about right now, already the fan from many years ago. Here is the case of the Pere Mitjans Foundation, which from the eighty is doing this task of deinstitutionalization, with a much lower rate than they are now in the service portfolio, where the units of coexistence are organized independently of the type of disability that people have, who live on normal and current floors. And that sounds small and normal to us, but it's not what happens in the macrocentre models that the Generality's policies during the last decade have promoted. And here's what I was talking about before the public-private... we don't defend the public-private, we defend the public, and we're aware that the public doesn't go all the way up. And we know that there are forms such as public-social, public-community collaboration, with non-profit entities, that are taking place..., like the Pere Mitjans Foundation and many others in the third sector, that have this vision. And it has to be on the waiting lists, that's a reality, and that's not going to happen overnight. In fact, it is asking from entities, such as Dincat, for example, a specific plan plan of the waiting lists. And here this plan must have a public priority and make alliances with entities like we have here today. The young lady's talking about the family paper, too, isn't she? This democratisation that's got to be there, isn't it? The families of..., families and entities of the West Valley of the intellectual disability sector who came to visit us yesterday were talking about a situation of unemployment in which many families are found precisely because the Administration, at the level of providing information, providing resources, ensuring that people with disabilities keep everything in their grasp so that they can be integrated and develop a life project, an autonomous life project..., cannot do so. And, in this sense, democratize even more of these mechanisms, these organs, so we find it totally key. As well as supporting the cultural sector and projects that guarantee access to the cultural right, the idea of cultural rights, once again, for people with disabilities, comes out. That's why we're voting for this point. And let's hope it'll help us move forward. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.77.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.78.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... Well, you said that it was time that you were dedicated to the world of disability, that you were fighting for the rights of people with disabilities, and I have to tell you that you are transferred into the youth of this personal circumstance of yours, your personal circumstance of yours that you can extend to other people who have intervened in this youth. I will look in particular at the deinstitutionalization of what you are talking about, in the customization of the services, in the inclusive Community models, eh? , of lleure, of treatment of life, of life in the community itself. And we agree on a lot of things with you; we have one, of the essence, that doesn't..., that makes us diverge. But we agree on the customization of the servants. We agree with the attendance at the first home, with the personal assistant. We agree on universal access to home support, and we agree so that the DSS – home care service – will increase by 53_million in the Generality assumptions, or that the price of home care service has a specific presupposition in the Generality assumptions. In the better part of the socio-sanitary centres, which do not discriminate against anyone for reasons of condition; I would just miss that my group did not agree. In the establishment of a minimum wage of 1,200 euros. It is desirable for the social sector to have a minimum wage of EUR 1,200_. I'll tell you what, he could be taller. I will tell you more, we should supply all the workers in Catalonia: we would improve competitiveness, we would improve domestic demand, we would improve welfare, we would improve the welfare of people and families. The Government of the Generalitat, however, cannot establish a minimum wage. To encourage organizations, social workers, which I agree with in this sense. Increase residential spaces. Obviously, residential places must be increased for large people, for people with disabilities. This is why the Generality's assumptions provide 162_millions in infrastructure construction to provide these services and 29_millions to increase their seats. Culture, oci and lleure, inclusive, obviously. Persons working in special work centres or in ordinary businesses who can retire before, would only be absent. Mr. Moreno told us; we're in this. And, depending on your aging and who your characteristics are, it must be anticipated, obviously. Now, we cannot share in any way the internalisation of all services in the social sector. The heavy administrative mass of the Generalitat donaria pitjor solved all these requests made by the own motion. Many of the entities you serve – and now I'm going to talk about Girona – are entities that start couples and seas that set up a special education school when there was no Administration at all, nor expected you to be at all. Then, when the kids got out of school, they created residential centers, service centers diürns. Then, with the law of addiction, they went greasy. Entities are a functional piece, a differentiating fact; they are a state structure of Catalonia, a thing that characterizes us and that makes us different from the rest, like at least the State. Do you believe that a system created for the Generality and managed for you to operate better the disabilities than the Pere Mitjans Foundation, than the Ramon Noguera, that Els Joncs – of Girona –, that the MAP – of Ripoll –, that Altem – of the Alt Empordà –, that the cooperative La Fageda, that Mas Casadevall, that Vilar Aspronis...? No, they wouldn't do it better. I know them, I've been, I know how they work. They wouldn't do it better. In the field of education, would the generality do better than the association El Dofi, which has excellent professionals and voluntary people? You'd do better, wouldn't you? I don't think so. Or The Trampoli, of the Baix Empordà? No, they wouldn't do it better. And if they did... as much as they could. If it wasn't for the ideological bias that incorporated it into this young man..., it's what we have left with a little, this internalization, this hundred_per_cent public. What is substantial is that people have a high quality, high quality deal; it is not a substance that provides the service. Take this, thank him for the young man, the taranna and the ability to come to terms. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.79.0	Thank you very much. And, finally, in this round of defence of the papers presented, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Bartomeu Account.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.80.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs and MPs... we are in front of a youth in favor of participation, the model of attention and the work of people who suffer from disabilities. In the first point there is more democratization of the participating organs, and the proposed modification that you carry in the motion of the decree supposes a change in the proportion of the representativeness in these organs. Therefore, it is possible to study the proposal, but looking for a better one that does not imply a disproportion or a representation that breaks the ecosystem of the decree. Meanwhile, there are alternate ways, for example, for the participation of the Vein Associations – I think I remember that in Article 27.4. On the application of Law 19/2020, of 30 December, of equal treatment and non-discrimination, the development of the law is true that it has come conditioned for the electoral year and the formation of government, but this issue, as the councillor has commented in this same Farist, of Equality and Feminisms, is included in the plan of government and the task of creating the Agency of Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination has already begun, an online complaint form has been made available to the citizen and is currently also in the process of processing the anti-discrimination sanctioning regulation. So, we'd be on the line of your point. Another point: on the clear bet for the actions in favor of personal autonomy and the residential model of the movement, it seems obvious that it should not be left to a more development model of the needy to support each person and in a field of company. It is necessary to look for personalized itineraries and flexible measures in the paths of particular situations, and also to opt for socialization or to take care of their own space. In short, personal autonomy means that the model has to adapt to the needs and choices of its users. This is what the model and the families ask for in the findings we have with them. We understand, with this, with the papers and her young lady, a broad agreement in this chamber on what the model should be like. So, we're still working on it and we're moving on. For what it does to the sector of cures and the SAD, we know that there is still a long way to go, there are still many temporary and part-time contracts, low wages, little capacity to claim for the effects of the labor reform, work in private homes with exposure to various risks, etc. One of these tools of improvement may be to increase the rates and modules depending on the presuppositional availability, and that the minimum wage is 1,200_gross per fourteen tables, but we believe that a young person is not the best initiative to achieve job advancements. They must do so through collective bargaining, through agreements, because in what we are putting forward here we are violating the autonomy of the parties. The only question in which we can advance in this sense would be that the Administration makes an agreement, a pact, with social workers. From here, we could move this completely and with agility; while not. So, we're going to put this initiative together with all sides, and this young man means he's not the right way to go. For another band, about the job placement, let's celebrate that we agreed. Let us remember that from the Department of Enterprise and Work it gives support to the promotion of employment and the maintenance of jobs for people with disabilities, both to the ordinary enterprise and to the special centres, and also with the support of subsidy programmes of the Directorate-General, both sectoral conference and European foundations. The model we want is that of full work inclusive with the maximum possible self-sufficiency of this collection and for the longest time they can keep it. On retirement, that Mr. Moreno has neglected that in the Republican Left equation you also see, and important, it means that, by not having all the skills as independent as you are, we are forced to continue to win. That is why we have given a pre-agreement and compromise on the part of the Ministry of Social Security to carry out a series of studies, such as the case of early retirement arrangements, among them those of disabled workers. I, therefore, the Government of the State, in the terms of the own earthquakes, must submit the proposal in the case of the Toledo Pact. We'll be loving because it's really complacent, and I think we need to look for the most direct and uncertain lives. We'll follow up. In any case, Congresswoman Dolors Sabater, thank her for the interlocution and availability she's had of all of them. I think that in some questions, in most of them all, we are more likely to get there in the likely sense of the vote we are going to make. And, above all, thank him for the transactions we've been able to accomplish and the points we share. And, I repeat, in the others, there's a lot of agreement, and I think that with a little dialogue we can move forward. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.81.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, MP Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.82.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, well, above all, from our parliamentary group we want to show our recognition and support for the efforts of so many families with dependent people in their charge and also to the professionals, both private and public, for their efforts and compromises. Well, we should all be aware of the vulnerability situation of dependent people, but in this sense we find ourselves with a patent reality, which is the lack of compromise on the part of the Government of the Generality to cover the most essential needs of dependent people. And that's not something we just say from the VOX Parliamentary Group. The same entity Dincat, as representatives of the intellectual disability sector in Catalonia, have denounced that the draft assumptions of the Generality for the next year 2022..., are not enough to cover the essential needs of dependent people. And we don't agree with the man who presents the extreme left to us. And not only because we are in the antipodes of our idea and political establishment, but because most of the initiatives that present us have a great ideological burden that do not precisely intend to solve the situation of people with dependence on their relatives or the professionals who follow them, but they are continuists of their interventionist policies, that the only one that caused the most human, institutional, cultural and economic impoverishment of our esteemed region, of Catalonia. And from the Dincat entity they have exposed, precisely, who are the urgent needs to deal with, such as the financing of work centres or the elimination of waiting lists in order to be able to access housing or day care services. And yet, the CUP presents us with a motion that does not promote measures to benefit from it, nor does it provide personal autonomy, nor does it have an effective system to assist dependent people. And do they know what the sad reality is? That the services provided to the Government of Catalonia are the prevention of situations of dependence, promotion of personal autonomy and personal assistance. And before this situation, we believe that it is urgent to set aside once and for all necessary actions to ensure the well-being of all and each person in a situation of dependence, such as giving more support to employment. Because, look, if you compare the previous assumptions of the Government of Catalonia with the proposal for 2022, of the law of assumptions, there is a significant decrease in the heading for this, from 449_million euros to 223_million euros. It is also urgent to be able to guarantee access to digital connections for personal and emotional development, as well as to facilitate the necessary means to enable dependent families to participate in the care and care of the dependent person. Because all this is urgent. But the government of the government says there's no money to deal with these emergencies. And politics, as the Members who are here should know, is a matter of priority. And the government has already shown us, with the project of assumptions, which are its priorities: Igualtat and Feminisms council, 92_million euros; External Action council, 94_million euros; for climate reasons, 100_million euros, and for the TV3 sector, more than 240_million euros. These are the priorities of the Government of the Generality. And it is shameful that while we find that the personal autonomy game does not cover the essential needs of dependent people. And, look, I've been listening to some intervention, and some of you seem really hypocritical to me. We, of course, collect dependent persons, even those who have some disability, even those who have not yet been born. [[Some applause.]] Because the defense of life and dignity of people is defense from the first moment. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.83.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words of Mr Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.84.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... it's obvious that a good part of the ends of this young man could be shared. Who doesn't want to share...? And, in fact, it happens many times to the same committee, so that some of the final objectives, like now working for dependency to reduce, precisely, things as obvious as the list of expectations of dependence that we have in Catalonia and to devise the most appropriate policies..., it is obvious that with this, that in the diagnosis and in the objectives, we can agree that all groups – all of them. The problem is that the young lady really talks – and here she doesn't mix, the CUP, and I think she's legitimate –..., she talks about the model, she wants to talk about the model of follow-up and residence. And I think that here... it won't be a novelty that we say that, like liberals, we don't share his model in a basic thing that's already been talked about, but I think it's essential. We believe that public policies must act many times and work against the real situation of poor people, for example, or social needy people in Catalonia. That is to say, that social protection policies are essential in our joint venture, in our society and in the joint venture of Spain, in our right-wing, in this case, and social, which is as we define ourselves. That's obvious. And, therefore, I don't think we're here against it. But, of course, when you speak of public ownership – I think that Mr Moreno has explained it well –..., public ownership, yes, but collaboration, obviously, public-private. But it's basically efficient. It has also been accepted here, therefore, that if we pass and change the model to a single action or, in this case, to a single collaboration, in this case it has been talked about public-social..., I believe that public, only public, without the participation of the private party, we cannot cover it, we cannot give the social protection service that we currently give. This morning, in fact, we talked about the social economy. In the end, we cannot stop the individual entrepreneurship of the citizens either in all that is social protection, because I think it goes against the real and basic essence of our society and of our culture, in fact, European, and, in this case, also Spanish and Catalan. Therefore, we are against everything you want to change this model, because for us it is a problem. We, the last legislature, and talking about some issues – there's a lot of time to talk about this, because dependence is huge and we'd deal with a lot of issues... –, we talked about the model, about what better we have to do to make policies for the big people. We did... in fact, we asked... at Ciutadans' petition, he did a study commission on the quality of life of the great people. We believe – and here I want to say it and I want to leave it... – that we have to guarantee the rights of the great people. I believe that policies related to the great people are, in this case, basic, to be prioritised on the political agenda and to be reflected in social spending. And here's where we get another shot at the problem we've always seen – and we've told the assumption committees –: I don't think they're devoting enough resources to social protection, in this case to things as basic as deploying or implementing measures for the great people. In the end, the great people many times have more problems at the time of managing this dependency. And also related, obviously, to the great people, some fears I wanted to say – and I think I won't have time –..., about the workers of the sector. Obviously, we believe in collective bargaining. We don't have to implement methods or new measures; they already exist. So, we need to improve the conditions of the workers, it's basic. But his training is also basic. It has not been discussed here, but I believe that the formation, in this case, the implementation many times of the dual FP as an essential mechanism to improve its quality of work and also its working conditions..., I believe that it is also essential in Catalonia. So, it's very extensive, this young man. Some points we will vote for, others, against, and others we will abstain from – it seems like a novelty, huh? That's what I said... Thank you, Members, Members, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.85.0	Thank you, Congressman. And finally, on behalf of the Joint Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.86.0	Thank you, President. I'm talking from here, 'cause I'm gonna be short. Because, in general lines, I seem like a good young man. In fact, there are points that we totally share, and that I, moreover, invite them and encourage them to carry them in the proposal of law that we will deal with on social health matters, because I already said yesterday that I thought there was a point missing on residences, and I think it is worth it, therefore, to incorporate some of the proposals that you make here in that processing, in that debate. However, we will vote separately at other points, because we have not just heard the allergy they have to collaborate with the private sector. Here we are talking about improving a service that is much needed, which is clearly better, but which, unfortunately, the Public Administration cannot assume in its totality because it does not have the resources or the capacity to do so, right? I believe that a good collaboration with the private sector could help to donate many of the outputs that you are asking for here. In fact, they ask, for example, to respond in the first quarter of 2022 to the more than three-thousand people with intellectual disabilities who are on the waiting list for residential services and to the more than a thousand people who are on the waiting list for day-care services. Clearly, this must be answered, but the Administration will not be able to do so on its own. I can't give you an answer, I can't answer the cent of the demand, can I? I believe that, in the end, what it is to work with the private sector, to work in collaboration, obviously, with the necessary controls and supervision on the part of the public administration. Unfortunately, however, at these points in which you are expelling the private sector from a service that complements what is being given by the Public Administration, therefore, we cannot give them support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.87.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I, finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mrs Dolors Sabater's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.88.0	Thank you very much. It will be difficult to give an answer to all the time there is, but... I seem to have some hypocrisy – forgive me –, political hypocrisy, so much praise to the third sector, so much praise to entities, which, fortunately, are covering what the Administration is not covering, when, in reality, behind this is an inhibition of the public impulse – inhibiting the public impulse. And then, Mr. Roquer, I remind you that... you speak of the Pere Mitjans Foundation. It is ready to close, because the routes given to it from the Public Administration do not allow it to support the model that is made to accompany worthy life. The Ateneu Divers, like the ateneu d'oci, of inclusive leure, is also at the point of..., will have to close, because it does not have this support. So, what are we talking about, when do we make so many compliments? Here the one who claims this young man – and I assure you that it will not be the last time that we will talk about these issues in this House – is to put at the center of politics an important deficit that we have, because in the assumptions we give money, we give many millions to the circuit..., and we don't have to make more places? Forgive me, huh? But there are twenty-thousand places of great people standing, and three-thousand places of people with intellectual disabilities, more center of day, almost two-thousand, and only three-thousand cover for great people and people with disabilities – misery and company. I'm just saying there's been a lot of stuff that we haven't been able to... we've been there a long time to be able to deal with them. With the willingness to listen to everyone and try to make the most of it, so we've come very close at the last minute, and that doesn't allow some of the issues we've given... just like the job placement point, which jumped because the Bureau didn't admit it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote will be at noon before the session is suspended. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies of feminism and equality]] [[302-00061/13]] And let's get to the twenty-three point of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the policies of feminism and equality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX. It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.90.0	Well, thank you, President. Hello again. Well, continuing with the questioning of a few days ago at the plenary session, we tabled this motion on the so-called "equality policies" promoted by the Generalitat de Catalunya. We call for the adoption of six initiatives from a common sense and protection perspective for all people, men and women. The first point is to replace the terminology in anti-violence policies and to change the term 'gender' to 'inter-family' in order not to discriminate against any victim according to the sex he or she has. In the second, we call for the elimination of gender policies and the promotion of policies with a family and birth promotion perspective, because that is a necessity. Moreover, it is an urgency that we must face with courage and determination, because at present it seems that the politically incorrect thing is to promote pro-family and birth policies, and in that we cannot agree. The third point is to abolish subsidies and budget allocations to promote the gender perspective, an exercise that must be done in all the departments of the Generalitat, because it is enough to allocate tens of millions of euros in subsidies to satisfy their gender and LGBTI lobbies, and it is enough to waste the money of all Catalans on purely ideological issues. That's enough. Because it's very easy to waste public money on ideological parties when you don't have to put a euro in your pocket. That's enough. [[Some applause.]] In the fourth point, we call for the elimination of emotional and sexual education from educational or extracurricular plans, and we ask that, until it is eliminated, the obligation be put in place that parents should be expressly informed about any subject, talk, workshop or activity that affects issues of gender ideology, feminism, LGBTI diversity or sex education, giving parents their individual consent through parental pin. Because, look, as a result of our intervention in the past plenary session, where we were talking about « perverse sex education, there have been several parents who have contacted us, worried, outraged and asking for help because in their children's schools they are beginning to impart subjects that have nothing at all to do with the education of their children. And to these parents and to all those who can feel identified we want to say that you are not alone, that you now have in Parliament a voice that represents you and that fights with determination for the protection of your children. Because, yes, honourable Members, the education of children is a matter for the parents alone. [[Some applause.]] Fifthly, we call for equal opportunities and for policies of family and work reconciliation to be promoted. Equal opportunities for both women and men; mothers and fathers deserve the same opportunities – and not just women, as the Generalitat aims to promote. And, as a last point, a few days ago we knew the sad news that a woman had murdered her husband in Manresa. And according to the duel protocol of this Parliament, this victim does not deserve any special mention and does not deserve any minute of silence. And you know why? Being a man. And that is why, at the last point of the motion, and not least so, we call for the amendment of Parliament's protocol to adapt what and that minutes of silence be kept for all victims of domestic violence: men, women, children and the elderly, because it is fair to do so. And we ask you... in this regard, I, as a Member, to approve this motion by the VOX Parliamentary Group, with six very concrete measures that defend true freedom and true equality. If you want to do the Catalans a favor, pass this motion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.91.0	Then, to defend the papers presented, has the parable of the deputy Anna Grau, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.92.0	Thank you, President. Members... Well, we face a debate in a certain steril or cosmetic way, which yesterday President Aragonès openly asked all groups in the chamber that do not have any dealings with VOX, that do not accept any parliamentary interactions with VOX. We're going through these kinds of crimes. We're going through them. [[remorse of the voice]] I mean, if we accept Junts for Catalonia, so... obviously, we don't accept lessons of democracy, and less than anyone else, so, Republican Esquerra. [[Some applause.]] Having said that, I do not know when everyone here is going crazy, crazy, crazy or crazy, because somehow I believe that you, Mr de VOX, have not tabled this motion in any spirit whatsoever, because you know, even if it is only for what I have just said, that you are not going to approve it. You have tried, let's say, well, to provoke a shock, that is, to question an ever-expanding mental framework on the issues of feminism, gender-based violence and all these things. We have tabled an amendment, which you have rejected, specifically in point 1, when you asked to replace the terminology in anti-violence policies, the term 'gender' with the term 'intrafamily', in order not to discriminate against any victim. We ask not for a replacement, but for a complementation. That is, we understand that gender-based violence exists – I think it already exists, I wish it did not exist, but it does exist – but it is also true that there is more author violence, there is intra-family violence, and there are assumptions of intra-family violence that are not fully or satisfactorily covered by gender-based violence. Why, by contradicting the spirit you seek to attribute to your motion, do you not accept this amendment? Because you have probably joined hunger with the desire to eat, and here as much fear of freedom has the extreme left as the extreme right, by calling them as each other you call yourselves; normally I prefer not to qualify people as much for their supposed ideas as for their actions. See, it is clear that in the debate on the treatment of feminism and many things is falling into sectarian excesses. That is, we believe that historical consensus of feminism is being broken and that many, even foolishness are being said and done. Now, it is also true that if the reaction to that is to go to the other side, it is to throw the child with the dirty water from the bathtub, so we do not leave the poor or sectarians. I say that between Irene Montero's ministry and Bernarda Alba's house there has to be a middle point. And that middle point is that we try to defend Citizens, a liberal feminism, which is neither a light feminism nor a cowardly feminism. It is a feminism that tries to be inclusive, cross-cutting, and in which all women and also all men interested in a more egalitarian society can be recognized. That said, well, we believe that most of the points of this motion are born dead and bankrupt; we will abstain in some, we will vote for some, we will vote against others. And we regret that this debate, let us say, is born, therefore, aborted from the very beginning by the sectarianism of each other. As long as we do not find ourselves in a central, liberal and good-faith debate on these issues, feminism, far from moving forward, will recede; gender-based violence will be more an ideological flag than a problem that we can solve among all, and of course we will not approach positions on rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.93.0	Then, to fix her position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.94.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Before fixing the position of our group for the VOX movement, I would like to make a point of the pettyness of this group, which, together with the votes of Ciutadans and the PP, have managed that the Almudena Grandes, a referent of feminism and an excellent writer, cannot be considered the favorite daughter of Madrid. Many thanks, in change, to Minister Miquel Iceta for having attached them, to the postum title, the Gold Medal to the Merit in Fine Arts. [[Greetings.]] Now, in relation to VOX's motion on policies of feminism and equality, my group will vote against it. For years now, the United Nations has published reports demonstrating that women and children are more exposed to poor economics all over the world. In fact, the United Nations considers that 70 percent of the earth's poor are women, up to the point that in the sustainable development agenda, adopted in 2015 for 2030, the fiveth of the objectives is gender equality, i.e., equality between women and men, and backward numbers of women, among others, for example, the fight against violence and discrimination against women. Spanish is one of the countries that committed to it, and it is at these times at a sixty_per_cent of the compliment of the ODSs. Catalonia is a bit out of the way, but it's not an excellent place either. Still, VOX would like to make the Department of Equality and Feminism disappear because you don't see its usefulness. Still, VOX denies this major danger that women have to fall into poverty. Certainly, they note that the United Nations is talking about the equality of « genere, and « genere is not a concept invented for this Parliament, but it is a globally accepted concept. "Gender perspective, for example, is a tool used in social sciences and public policies to determine the differences between men and women and to find solutions. For what it does to male violence, the young man sees the need to show respect both for the victims of domestic violence, as they say, as for men; naturally– naturally. Which is treated differently, for example, with a minute of silence, the violence that women suffer because of being-has nothing to do with disrespect to men, but with the fact that violence against women is structural, while violence against men is conjunctural. Violence against women is encouraged and maintained by a certain mentality that considers women to be second-guessed. Some data at world level make it possible to hear this question quickly: according to a world study by the United Nations Office, published on the 14th, the majority of men who die murdered do so at the hands of unknown men. Most women who die murder do so in the hands of men, too, but known. You also tell the study that the ninety-five percent of homicides are men. More data: the first report on homicide in Spain says that the sixty-two-per-cent of homicides are from men to men; the twenty-eight, from men to women; the seven-per-cent, from women to men, and the three-per-cent, from women to women. The figures deny their game when it insists on a number of men similar to women who suffer from peer violence; it is not true – it is not true – and the data refute it. And those who make you serve to prove the intrafamily violence that the men suffer, I have proven, after looking for them – because I asked that I tell them where they were, but I don't know, and I think I found them–..., and they say that, in the case of them, the violence is exercised by the parents, not the couples. That's why we call for specific plans to eradicate male violence. For this reason, Spain also, in 2011, two years ago, signed the Istanbul convention, a Council of Europe agreement on prevention and fight against male violence. Perhaps, if VOX were to fall, the country would abandon the Istanbul convention, as Turkey has done. I assure you they'll always keep us in the front to avoid it. Our group believes that the Department of Equality and Feminism needs to be strengthened with more pressure and staff. We believe that we need to put emphasis on raising the Observers for Gender Equality, on fighting male violence, on helping the most vulnerable women with pre-work training, on strengthening co-education to fight these gender stereotypes that cause violent masculinity and submissive femininity. It's all about this – all about this – and not buying pink pens and lily flags, as you said a moment ago. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.95.0	Then, on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.96.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll start the intervention with a quote from the lesbian black feminist Audrey Lorde who's growing up a lot. "In a society where good is defined according to the benefits and not human needs, there must always be some group of people who, through systematic oppression, are led to feel as if they were too much and to occupy the place of the inferior dehumanized beings. Institutionalized rejection of the difference is a basic need for an economy of the benefit that needs the existence of a surplus of marginal people. Feminisms are not the struggle for equality between men and women. The feminisms that transform cannot be or are binary. Feminisms are the struggle for social justice from all fronts: class, territories, culture, sexual orientation, ethnoracial identities, gender identities. The social justice of equity in difference. That's the feminisms. It's been a long time since the women, the blacks, the "migrants, the transs, the whores, the levees, I've said enough. The workers say enough to unionize us, collecting the struggle for labor rights. The suffragists said enough until they got the female suffrag – only for white Spanish women, it must be said – in 1931. The women diem prou equipping us with tools and resources collected from the policies of genera to shield before the law the defense of our physical, psychological, emotional integrity, the defense of our dignity. The Guineans said how much when they got them out of our land on '68 to defend Guinea's independence. The "migrants say enough every 12 October cremating images of Colom and recalling the genocide of Abya Yala of the 15th century, which today continues to exist through the foreign law. They tell you enough avoiding the streets that they are denied with their existence in resistance, with the defiant pride that it builds what has historically been vetoed them. The whores say hard fighting for their rights every 1st March, because today's sex work, now it's still work. When we read proposals with this young man we are happy, because they smell like por. There's a whole lot of the predator encircled by the crowd of whom he considered a prey. The for to lose privileges; the for to lose power; the for to not be able to continue offending us, exploiting us; the for to change, to progress; the for to social transformation that is exploiting in your face and you cannot control, although you try hard and with violence. Because, although you have been trying for years to deny us, dehumanize us, dispossess us of our humanity so that we can exploit ourselves, it is precisely this expulsion from the margins that has fostered our union and our strength. In this union we have promoted these feminist policies, anti-racist and inclusive of the differences that you have tried so hard to attack. We don't have to. We're the south of the north, we're the margins, we're the working force that fills your buttocks, we're the exploited bodies that fill your snows, we're the seen ones used to sustain your well-being. And we don't have it because we have the difference that makes us strong, adds us; it's helping us to invade from all positions, until now subordinate, to overthrow your capitalist, supremacist, heteropatriarchal, Eurocentric and exploiter system. We're working from the bottom because, literally, our lives are there. Besides, we've been working on our own, on our own organization and on our own release for a long time. For this reason, when we hear these cynical, flawed, erratic, presumptuous proposals, but with little success, that they defend the removal of the difference in order to maintain the status quo for the benefit of the four of us, the only thing that you say is that we are doing well, because it is changing from bandol. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.97.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mrs Susanna Segovia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.98.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin by saying that, in advance of the statement made to us by the deputy of VOX, the deputy Lora, that we support this young man, we regret to inform him that he has not convinced us and that we will vote against him. And I wanted to start with a very clear and very concrete example, because, when I was preparing this intervention to the motion, so, to what you were looking for information, thinking how we respond to so much cynicism and so much denial of male violence... then I found a thread from the journalist Samar el Ansari, who works for El Periodico, and it seemed important to read it to me because I saw what we were really talking about. Says the Samar: "This morning a gentleman has been about to hit me on the street. I was working. I had to sit and breathe because the anxiety crisis that has caused me has not been half normal. I open thread. I was waiting at the traffic light when a gentleman on a skateboard, from a distance, started to yell at me, to call me pretty, to tell me he was fucking me, how good he was, and he went down the mask to make me a despicable gesture with his tongue. I answered him. I didn't expect it. This is where hell started. She's started insulting me, calling me a whore, bitch, bitch, and a lot more. He got off the skateboard and stared at me. But I haven't given him his immunity privilege. I still didn't keep quiet. I answered him, too. I told him who he believed to incriminate me in that way, to leave me alone, that he was working. His anger has gone up when he saw that he didn't squat on his head, because that's what they're waiting for, that's what they're shutting down. He raised my hand to the cry of "If you don't shut up, you'll find out." He wanted to assault me for not squatting his head and accepting the shit he was telling me. No one's done anything. In the end I ended up squatting my head and going. He gave me an anxiety crisis. I had to stop, I couldn't get out of my head this moment while I was working. Now I feel bad because I couldn't give it all of myself this morning. I feel guilty. If I hadn't answered him, nothing would have happened. Why do they believe in the impunity to say and do with us what they want? Why are we always the ones who feel guilty when it really isn't our fault? When we talk about male rape we're talking about this, about facts that affect thousands and thousands of women every day, because one of every three women has suffered male rape. Male rape is the one we kick for being women. And yes, it's usually, mostly, almost always, by men. Therefore, it is the women, the ones who need specific protection and attention, because it is more than half the population that suffers a specific rape. This is why we cannot say that we change male violence for domestic violence. Why... that there are other forms of violence in the family? Yeah. And that's why there are other laws to protect and deal with these rapes, such as, for example, the Child Protection Act, which has recently been approved at the Congress at the initiative of the Ministry of Social Rights. Therefore, to say that there is male violence, that there is a specific violence, and that it is not just, moreover, in the realm of the pair, but that it is in the street, in the institutions, that it is at all, is to clearly identify a problem that suffers thousands and thousands of women. We took the motion and wanted to use it for something, and basically we used it to ask the government for things. To ask him, at point 2, to increase policies with a gender perspective such as strategic and promote policies of family perspective and foment of birth helping in reconciliation and in cures. We have also transformed Point 3 and asked the Government to increase subsidies and supposition parties to promote the gender perspective. Especially in point 4, we ask the government to increase and implement educational or extracurricular plans for affective education. And while they are not on the march, they make it easy for all schools to have access, that their teachers and teachers can form, that they are doing errands not only to children and children, also to families, to accompany in this process of sexual and affective education. Because I already said, I am the mother of an 11-year-old girl and I want my daughter to have, please, more sexual and emotional education; my daughter, her companions and her classmates, because that's what we need to work with children and children. And that's the only way we can deal with masculinism and end the violence that enslaves us. We will also ask the Department of the Presidency to study the modification... – forgive me – and the rest of the parliamentary groups, to change the rules of this chamber so that we can complete all the aspects that are included in the protocol against assets, which includes this protocol of dol which is commented on in this young man. So, please, a parliament that says enough to the masculinist rapes. The groups must unite all of us to defend the victims of this male violence, and those who deny them... they are the ones who have the problem. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.99.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Eva Parera has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.100.0	Thank you, President. See, I, in a recent intervention, in which we discussed this, I said that the fight against gender-based violence, therefore, could not be a negotiation or a political lobby. It seemed like an immorality to turn such a difficult issue into a political lobby for an electoral cause. The reality is that, unfortunately, we have seen the assumptions that are presented to the Generality for approval, and I continue to reaffirm that this is a lobby. We have a share of 92_million euros in the department, of which only 11 go to gender-based violence policies, and all come from the State, from the gender-based violence pact, which gives us 12_million euros. Therefore, here zero contribution – zero contribution – from the Government of the Generality to these policies. Next I think it's a mistake to approach it: it's an error to segment the violence according to the collections that suffer it. And it's even more wrong to sort one of them as a political cause, because then what we do is allocate resources, speeches and visibility only to a type of violence. And I think the fight against violence is asking us all. It's not a political issue and we can't make it a political issue; it's a question of living together, whoever the assaulted person is. And the fight against gender-based violence also calls on men, and criminalizing them is a barbarity, because what we have to do is ask them to fight a hard problem. Genre rape exists. There is no denying, it is a reality, it is a serious problem that we are not solving; neither the many speeches that are fan and the many campaigns that are fan have helped in others– in others– to reduce this problem. There's no denying it. What we have to do is rethink our approach. It has increased - we have recently learned - the violence against children from the world. That came out a little while ago. Absolute silence, no manifestation, no proclamation. Silences absolutely. It has increased almost thirty per cent the violence against the infants between the lar. And I'm hard to tell you that if we don't get this problem between the children's home, a large percentage of these children will end up in general rape. And there's one thing that's connected to the other. We can't segment the violence that's alive in the driveway. It's a mistake, it's a mistake. A child who suffers from violence from home will have problems that we have to address and that we have to deal with from childhood. We have to approach it with rigor, and today there is a lot less rigor. There are many proclamations, but there is no rigor. It is a very complex issue, but there are two basic things, of course, and I hope that everyone agrees, that they must preside over the fight against violence, and also gender-based violence: one, the examples we need to be the parents, the parents we need to be examples for our children, and that's what we talk about; and second, we need to educate in respect. Today – those who are peers you know, those who are peers you know – it is very difficult to educate children, because we live in a hedonistic society, we live in a selfish society. And today we're talking about values, which is how children are educated, with values, allergy to a lot of people. And it's a mistake. They don't have to have allergy to talk about values; we have to defend them, because without values there is no coexistence. Empowering children is not doubling language. This is not rigor, so a girl is not empowered, and much less explaining to children, girls, teenagers or women that the enemy is the man, that man is violent by nature and that they need to be re-educated. Assume once that the approach that is being made does not work and start to take 'complexes from above how to approach this. And remember that fighting violence is not just fighting violence against the woman; it is fighting violence against the woman, against the disabled, against the children, against the great people and also against the violence suffered by men. Or do they think they don't kick her? Therefore, we in this House shall call for a separate vote, which we shall then communicate to you, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.101.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Group of Parliamentarians of Junts per Catalunya, has the words of Mrs Elsa Artadi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.102.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, deputies, deputies... See if it is useful to open a little the eyes of the society where we live longer than November 25th and 8th, because for the Leonor de Badia del Vallès, for the Jordina de Manresa, for the Maria del Pilar de la Bisbal de l'Empordà, for the Sulay Betty de Creixell, for the Lucía de Corberà de Llobregat, for the Alla de Porres, for the Antonella Abigail de Sant Vicenç de Castellet, for the Pamela de Cambrils, for the Teresa de Tarragona, the Maria Isabel de Ripoll, the Elena de Lloret de Mar, the Amal de Sabadell, for the forty-sisters murdered in the past four years, for the Teresa de Tarragona, for all the women who have been involved in the lives of a society. For the thirty-five_percent of young women – thirty-five_per_cent – who suffered male violence in the past year, because half of the women attached to emergencies for sexual assaults have less than twenty-five years, because the twenty-five_per_per_cent of the victims of sexual crimes are children who have less than thirty years, because the twenty-seen_per_per_cent are children who have between thirteen and dissected years; for this barbarity we will vote against, against a youth who consolidates the culture of rape and who inherits it the younger generations, to whom we are unable to protect. For the more than eleven thousand complaints of male violence from the iniciator of the year, 1,415 for sexual abuse and more than eight-cent per rape, we vote against a young man who trivializes a male violence that is used as a tool of constant intimidation towards women, where the desire of man is posed over the will of women. Because the disset_percent of sexual assaults was group, because the fact of the herd is not residual. Because many women still don't go to emergencies when they play, nor do they report. This motion seeks to eliminate school programs designed to change the paradigm when twenty per cent of young people still between fifteen and twenty-nine years believe that male violence does not exist. Because there is no safe place for women, because the eighty-one percent of sexual assaults occur in trusted environments, and fifty-seven percent of women in the last two years warn that they have suffered sexual assault in public transportation, and because half of the victims knew their attacker. That is why we will also vote against it, because it attacks community awareness and prevention policies and makes us complicit in this violence. Because the violation of human rights is illegal: in the Spanish State, one woman is raped every eight hours; in Europe, one woman has suffered sexual assault. And also for the 360 trans women who have been murdered since the world began this year. To maintain the dignity of this Parliament, we also vote against it, to be far from countries like Hungary, where the ultra-threat has enough power to unprotect women and LGBTI people. For all the women we have had sexual relations with a man at a time when we didn't want to, at a time when we didn't have to win or in a way we didn't want. For all of us, too, we will vote against it, because we want you alive, secure and empowered. That is why we are voting against it. We also vote against political party members who today will support this barbarity and this retrograde movement, because, even though you criminalize feminism, it is thanks to the feminist movement that you can be here today, that you can vote today, that you have rights and freedoms that you will not otherwise have. [[Greetings.]] And finally, it's with all the love that we're voting that we don't, for the love that we have for our partner, deputy and friend Jenn Díaz, because she's the one we want to say she's not alone, she and all the women that you deserve the company to tell you that you're not alone, because it's these speeches and these policies that make you responsible for everything that happens to us. Thank you, Jenn, for being a fighter and an activist. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.103.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word MP Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.104.0	Thank you, President. Well, I wanted to start by saying that I think we're all having a little bit of a fight about these issues, 'cause we're wasting time, right? This time that we are devoting to this infamous proposal we are not devoting to talking about a violence that is structural. And, in addition, it sends us to understand the speech to political parties like the PP, which issue us a dichotomy, as if fighting to combat male violence was incompatible with fighting against other violence, such as childhood violence, violence suffered by people with disabilities, when this did not sort out who our struggles are. Wanting to fight against male violence is not in any case incompatible with fighting against other structural violence. And I have to say that there are gains in not responding to this proposal. But there's only one woman who believes this speech... I think it's worth it to come here and send a few messages. Why? Because denying male-based violence has a risk, because the repair of male-based violence victims starts with self-identification. And if you come here and tell us that there is no male violence, this first self-identification may be delayed, and so we start to think that it's our fault, that we're accomplices, that we might have been relieved of it, that maybe it's bad luck – that's what I thought, that I was already in bad luck that you touched me, with different and different years, suffering male violence... And it's not bad luck, it's structural rape. And, therefore, what you say is that it is an ideology of gender..., I say feminist consciousness, and to this feminist consciousness has saved our lives. [[Greetings.]] And so, what you're saying here right now, legitimized by a lot of votes, it's not a new king, it's what everyone who wanted us home and who wanted us to silence all their lives has said. Therefore, to all those women who, perhaps, when they listen to them, believe them, I want them to put a case of all the contrary, who are all those people, all those women who watched television with the Carrasco dew documentary and who didn't know that they were victims of male violence and who were then self-identified and made, in Catalonia and the Spanish State, the calls for attention to male violence victims. And do you know why they came forward? Because for the first time someone was explaining to them in the first place what was happening to their lives. And that it wasn't bad luck, and that it wasn't his fault and that it wasn't an individual case, but it was a collector. And, therefore, before your demagoguery, we ask for more first time and more ideology of gender, than you say, and what I say is feminist consciousness. And I, like MP Elsa Artadi – whom I thank for her words – also wanted to send three messages. The first, to all the women who are out of this room. When I said that I had suffered male violence and that I did not consider myself a victim but a survivor, for many months I found many women lying down and telling me that they were also survivors. And maybe we've offered them a word from this Faristol that made them feel differently. Therefore, the first message I would like to send is to all the women who are outside this chamber who have suffered or who have suffered or who have doubts as to whether that which is being painted is male violence..., and, as Artadi said, to tell them from this Parliament of Catalonia that they are not alone, and that there are many Members in this Parliament who do not only deny the structural violence which they suffer, but believe them. The second message is for the women in this room, including the workers and all the people who are here, to tell them exactly the same: that I believe them, that we believe them, and that they are not alone. And, lastly, a message to the deputies of VOX, and, for which I understand, also to Congresswoman Parera: if you have suffered male violence or believe that you are patenting it and have around you a lot of lords who deny them their existence, deny them this violence, who also know that at the personal level you can count on me, and at the political level we will continue to fight them. [[Greetings.]] At the personal level, I offer you a person to talk to while you are denied this opportunity to self-identify as the victim of male violence, but at the political level we will fight them once and for all times. And, therefore, we will vote that not for the whole proposal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.105.0	Finally, to pronounce on the exams, has the parula the deputy Monica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.106.0	Okay, thank you. Well, I think that some Members are even going to think that they are offending us with some of the speeches; if so, they are wrong, but I do believe that it is a great disrespect for all the Catalans we are representing here in this Chamber. To focus on the amendment, Ciutadans present us with the deletion of our original point from the proposal and ask us to change the use of the term 'interfamily violence' to 'gender violence' when it is not covered by gender-based violence. Let us see: how can we alternatively use the term 'inter-family violence' to 'gender violence' when it is not covered by gender-based violence? What are they telling us with that? With all due respect and with my hand in my heart, I find it an insult to all victims of domestic violence, basically because gender-based violence does not exist; instead, there is violence against women, against men, against children and against the elderly. And what we ask is that they deserve the same respect, exactly the same respect, all the victims, and the same protection. And the message given by this Ciutadans amendment is that the drama of women victims of violence should continue to be politicized, that gender-based chiringuitos should continue to be promoted and that discrimination between victims according to the sex of the victim and the aggressor should continue. That is why we have not been able to accept this amendment. Then, a thing that Junts' deputy said... that talked about sexual assaults and rapes. VOX is the only political formation that defends life imprisonment for rapists and murderers. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.107.0	The debate is over, so I would like you to know that we are still going to proceed to the vote on items 18 to 23 on the agenda, which correspond to the motions that were tabled this morning. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into strategic and business support projects (cont'd)]] [[302-00058/13]] I already have separate voting requests that all groups have arrived. Therefore, we will begin by voting on item 18 of the agenda, which is the motion following the Government's inquiry into strategic and business support projects. Let's start by voting point number two. The vote begins. Point number two has not been approved. It received 51 votes in favour, 73 against and 8 abstentions. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has obtained 60 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 9 abstentions. Let's just go ahead and vote number six. The vote begins. Point 6 was not approved, with 42 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 18 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved, with 123 votes in favour and 9 votes against. We're voting point number eight now. The vote begins. Point 8_has received 52 votes in favour, 17 against and 63 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved, with 80 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 34 abstentions. We're voting point number 10 now. The vote begins. Point 10 has been approved, with 123 votes in favour and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number 11 now. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour, 9 votes against and 10 abstentions. And finally, we vote on the rest of the points of the motion. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 132 votes in favour. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the social economy (continuation)]] [[302-00064/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the social economy. We'll start by voting points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were approved, with 119 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We vote on points 3, 4, 5, 7 and 8. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. The vote on point 5a begins now. Point 5a was approved, with 113 votes in favour and 19 votes against. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved, with 82 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 31 abstentions. We're voting point number nine now. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved, with 104 votes in favour, 19 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting for the rest of the young man's points now. The vote begins. The remaining points of the motion were approved, with 113 votes in favour, 13 votes against and 6 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into cultural policies (continuation)]] [[302-00059/13]] We now vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into cultural policies. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 9 abstentions. We're voting point number two now. The vote begins. Point 2 was approved with 104 votes in favour, 16 against and 12 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. This point has not been approved. He obtained 50 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4 was not approved, with 52 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 8 abstentions. And finally, we vote on points 5 and 6. The vote begins. Points 5 and 6 were approved, with 113 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 9 abstentions. Let's now vote on the motion following the government's inquiry into housing policies... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I'm sorry, there was a point missing, point number seven. We vote for point 7 of the motion for cultural policies. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved, with 104 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 18 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies (cont'd)]] [[302-00060/13]] Now, let's move to point 21, the motion following the government's inquiry into housing policies. Let's start by voting point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved, with 123 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point 1.b now. The vote begins. Point 1.b_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 13 abstentions. We're voting point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was approved, with 126 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. We're voting now for point 1.d. The vote begins. The 1.d_point received 30 votes in favour, 30 against and 72 abstentions. We're voting 2nd point now. The vote begins. No, we have to repeat the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're gonna have to... yeah, do it three times to see if there's any change. Let's go back to voting point 1.d. The vote begins. The result was the same again: 30 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 72 abstentions. Let's go back to voting. The vote begins. The result of the vote has now been 30 votes in favour, 30 votes against and 71 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the remaining points of the motion and return to vote on it later, in the end. Therefore, we are voting now on point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been approved, with 113 votes in favour, 10 votes against and 6 abstentions. We're voting now on point 2.b. Point 2.b_has received 17 votes in favour, 75 against and 40 abstentions. We're voting point three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has received 69 votes in favour, 63 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has received 80 votes in favour, 19 against and 33 abstentions. We then vote on point number 5. The vote begins. Point 5_has received 49 votes in favour and 83 votes against. We're going back to voting point 1.d. The vote begins. The 1.d_point received 30 votes in favour, 31 against and 71 abstentions. Therefore, it was not approved. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the model of follow-up and residence in dependent life (continuation)]] [[302-00066/13]] We proceed to vote on the motion following the Government's inquiry into the model of follow-up and residence in dependent life. We'll start by voting points 1a and 1.c. The vote begins. These points received 53 votes in favour, 73 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point 1.b now. The vote begins. Point 1.b was not approved, with 20 votes in favour, 73 votes against and 39 abstentions. We're voting 2nd and 2b points now. The vote begins. These points were approved, with 122 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We're voting points 3a, 3.b and 3.d now. The vote begins. These points were rejected, with 17 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting points three and three. The vote begins. These points have been rejected, with 17 votes in favour and 115 votes against. We're voting now on point 3.c. The vote begins. The 3.c_point was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 10 votes against. We're voting now for point 3.g. The vote begins. Point 3.g_has received 56 votes in favour, 10 against and 66 abstentions. We're voting now at 3. The vote begins. The 3.h_point was approved, with 119 votes in favour and 13 votes against. We're voting point three. The vote begins. Point 3.i_is rejected, with 20 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 33 abstentions. We're voting now at 3.j point. The vote begins. Point 3.j was not approved, with 17 votes in favour, 82 votes against and 33 abstentions. We now vote on points 4a, 4.d, 4.e and 4.f. The vote begins. These points have been approved, with 122 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.b. The vote begins. Point 4.b_has been rejected, with 53 votes in favour, 69 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting now on point 4.c. The vote begins. Point 4.c_is rejected, with 59 votes in favour, 63 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting 5th point now. The vote begins. Point 5 was approved, with 122 votes in favour and 10 abstentions. We're voting now on point 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b_is approved, with 113 votes in favour and 19 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into policies of feminism and equality (continuation)]] [[302-00061/13]] We now proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government on policies of feminism and equality. We'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected, with 10 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 9 abstentions. Request the first secretary to proceed to the reading, as requested, of the point number 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.108.0	"Delete gender policies as a strategic axis and promote family and birth promotion policies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.109.0	We now vote on points 2 and 3, together. The vote begins. These points were rejected, with 10 votes in favour, 119 votes against and 3 abstentions. We're voting point number four now, and we're asking the third secretary to read this point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.110.0	"To eliminate from educational or extracurricular plans affective-sexual education, and, while not eliminated, to ensure that parents must be expressly informed about any subject, talk, workshop or activity that affects issues of gender ideology, feminism, LGBTI diversity or sex education, giving parents their individual consent through parental pin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.111.0	The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected, with 13 votes in favour and 119 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected, with 19 votes in favour and 113 votes against. And finally, we're voting point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected, with 17 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 2 abstentions. We suspend the session until this is two-quarters late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.112.0	Let us resume the session with the twenty-and-four points of the order of the day, the motion following the question to the Government on the functioning of the university system, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the functioning of the university system]] [[302-00062/13]] It has the word, to expose it, the deputy Lord Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.113.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, we brought here a motion subsequent to the inquiry I made last week before the Councillor of Universitats. And, just as I was preparing it, the truth is that I was doing a general reflection on the current political situation in Catalonia, and I want to share that reflection with you. I think Catalonia has become a real regime of lies; a real regime of organized political lies, so to speak in terms of Hannah Arendt, in which some have decided, simply, to sleep and continue to make it look as if some of the things that are said or most of the things that are said or done in this regime of the lie that has become Catalonia were true, because, of course, in the end, as almost everyone in public space gives them for sitting down, why is one going to put them down, with how exhausting it is. The problem is that this consolidation of this regime of organized lies into which Catalonia has become generates great problems of coexistence, generates great problems of freedom, generates great problems of equality and generates political persecutions in every rule, such as those we have seen at the Autonomous University against the students of S'Ha Afinet! , as we have seen against families who dare to claim their right to have their children educated also in Spanish. We see ideological persecutions that are deeply dangerous. We see Rectors of Catalan universities criminalizing the victims instead of condemning the aggressors; criminalizing S'Ha Afinet! instead of criminalizing or condemning those who impede the free exercise of the right to express themselves with absolute normality in their faculty or at their university, the students of S'Ha Afinet! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Therefore, I insist, I believe it is our obligation as politicians, as public officials, to combat that regime of lies, to combat that number of lies that begin, I insist, with things as conventionally accepted by some as the fact that Mr Aragonès is President 132 of the Generalitat. That is the first great lie of this regime of lies. No, he's president number eleven of the Generalitat. I think we should start telling the nationalists the amount of lies they have imposed on public debate. You have to start remembering them and you have to start telling them that up to here we could get there, that they can't continue to generalize that lie. And some people cannot keep silent about that lie, because what they do is generate, I insist, a regime, in every rule, a regime of lie, and a regime, in short, of oppression and repression of the dissident. Today I was listening, in the morning, to a Catalan public radio and television character, Joel Díaz, who, on a radio programme in Catalonia Ràdio..., Catalunya Ràdio, we find a public radio station in the Spanish State – a public radio station in Spain, but, in administrative terms, a public radio station in the Spanish State–..., well, Mr Díaz said on the Catalan public radio that some want to exterminate us, in allusion « to the Spaniards, in allusion to the Spanish perfids. I was saying it. Of course, in Catalan, he said: "Some of us want to exterminate. It was said on a public radio, in Catalan, which is a public radio of the Spanish State. And he thought that was the most normal thing in the world. They do not realize how ridiculous his claim to historical persecution, his claim to historical aggravation, is. That idea of oppressed people that you claim to make so many Catalans believe that there is no such thing, is that it's all a great fiction. And that is why I believe that we are obliged to combat this regime of lies, which in Catalan universities is given with special intensity when the young people of S'Ha Afinet! are harassed by groups, by genuine hordes of violent, radical young people, who call themselves anti-fascists. And as I simply foresee what will be the reaction, the response of most of the parties in this chamber, with Junts per Catalunya, Esquerra, the CUP and also the commons, saying that, in fact, the young people of S'Ha Afinet! They are fascists, and their aggressors, antifascists, which seems to me to be foolish, a conceptual misconception so great, that I believe, I insist, that..., well, I propose to you..., if you do not find it interesting the rational debate that I propose to you from the respect, that I propose from the reasonableness, that I propose to you, I insist, simply by trying to improve the quality of our public debate. I do not think we can afford to continue to assume this regime of institutionalized political lies. I believe that we must fight this, because it does no good to coexistence, but quite the contrary, it seriously harms coexistence and ends up causing great victims in Catalan society, I insist, usually constitutionalist associations like S'Ha Afinit! , which are the object of boycotts, attacks by radical separatists. I expect your answers, but, unfortunately, I hope you will continue with your institutionalized lying regime. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.114.0	It has the word now, to defend the proposed statements, the Parliamentary Group of VOX, the deputy Mr Manuel Jesús Acosta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.115.0	Thank you very much, President. I'll start by saying that we seem to have the first four points of this young man. And I will also start by saying that, apart from the anti-democratic health cordon against VOX imposed by the five parliamentary groups in this chamber, which do not support the debate or the confrontation of ideas, everyone here will agree with me that the best way to pass on a teaching is through personal example. Words convince, but examples drag. Or, in another way, less words and more facts. If we want to transmit, teach our children to treat with affection and respect their brothers and any other person, in addition to telling them we will have to – we parents – preach with the example, and therefore treat them with affection as well. But not everyone always fulfills this maximum of preaching by example. PSC i Units per Avançar, Esquerra Republicana, Junts, CUP and En Comú Puem, who in their words call themselves "democrats and tolerant", have not yet condemned the brutal physical attack of the totalitarian groups separatist and extreme left who perpetrated last October 5th at the Autonomous University of Barcelona against the youth association S'Ha Afinat! when these young people were simply trying to exercise their right to freedom of expression. Nor have they condemned the incitement to hatred, the launching of smoke boats and all kinds of objects, as well as the violent occupation of the Civic Square of the UAB, – what a paradox, Civic Square – by these totalitarian barbarians last Thursday against a new act of S'Ha Afinet! , which did not degenerate into a wild lynching thanks to the numerous presence of agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra, who ensured the physical integrity of the young people of S'Ha Finat! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Squadron Corps for its spirit of service in the defence of order and peace. [[Some applause.]] But there's more, there's more. Left Republican, Junts and CUP, in the previous plenary and also in the last Research Commission i Universitats, have applauded the aggressions to S'Ha Finish! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And, cynically, they have turned the tortilla around and condemned the mossos d'ésquadra for trying to stop the launch of smoke boats and all kinds of objects of these separatist barbarians and the lynching attempt they sought, they tried to realize the young people of S'Ha Finat! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr. Elena, Home Secretary and member of Esquerra Republicana, always has very good words with the Mossos d'Esquadra, but neither preaches with the example defending them when it is necessary. On the contrary, his own party repudiates the Mossos, and Mr. Elena does not say or do anything. By sense of responsibility you must ask for forgiveness and you must resign. Several deputies of VOX have been accompanying the young people of S'Ha Afinet! and we could see the hatred, the violence, the intolerance of these totalitarian barbarians against anyone who dares to think differently. This is contrary to the essence of the university, which from its medieval origins has been based on the critical universal spirit of respect, tolerance and effort. Neither the Rector of the UAB nor the Councillor of Universitats preach with the example, because they do not defend the tolerance or ideological pluralism of the members of the university by not expressly condemning, to this day, these incivic and violent acts. In relation to the other points of the proposal, of the motion, I will make two comments. First, in order to promote excellence, according to university autonomy, universities must choose the method they consider most appropriate for their pupils to master a third language, a foreign language. And two, the law of universities in Catalonia recognizes that Catalan and Spanish are official languages in the university. So far, there have been no problems in the use of the language at the university. The teacher chose a language, communicated it in his teacher's guide, and there was no inconvenience in bilingual dialogue, if asked by a student. We therefore advocate bilingualism with no tax percentages. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.116.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr David González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.117.0	Thank you, President. Very late, deputies and deputies. The truth is that it surprised us, this motion presented today for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans on the functioning of the university system. We have to say that the title is very uncertain and very attractive, but the truth is that when we look at the content, we don't see any reflection of all the main problems that the students and the students of the Catalan public universities have, as we don't see the reflection of the main problems that the workers and the workers of their own universities have. For us – we have said this on many different occasions – scholarships, staff involved, campus infra-financing and the impulse of research and knowledge transfer are core issues, if we talk about the university system, and there is no such thing as this. If you have decided to talk about the issues raised here, we will obviously refer to the content of this motion, because we are strict people, but we would like to say that, in any case, we understand that the most important and abundant demands on the part of the university world are not currently exposed in this proposal. Entering into matter, first of all, the PSC and Forwarding Units always condemn all the attacks that are being carried out, all the attacks, whether in any place or in any place – which are being escorted, please, by some parliamentary groups, that sometimes this idea does not just fit in at all; even more so when this aggression is being produced at universities, which is, as Miguel de Unamuno said at the time, the temple of intelligence, knowledge, debate and tolerance. Now, that never means white paper to criticize everything that goes on in college. That these must be a neutral institution we think about and defend, too, but that doesn't mean we have to go in and evaluate all the communications from the rectors and the rectors. In the same way that we do not ask them and them to value the political positions that the parliamentary groups represented in this chamber make, we think that this work on the other hand does not have to be realized either. We defended freedom of speech for everyone, without exception. We are not like those political parties that spend all day talking about freedom, the peaceful revolution, the anti-fessist movement, but then, at the time of truth, at the time of denouncing the attacks suffered by other political parties, they have always remained silent and silent. We want to guarantee freedom of speech whenever we respect human rights for everyone, I insist. There's a question that we do agree with the motion – because it didn't have to be all bad – and we share a diagnosis, since we have a problem with English knowledge levels in Catalonia. And, indeed, this can imply a loss of competitiveness in all its meanings for present and future Catalonia. To promote policies to ensure the learning of English by students and students before reaching universities is one of the main educational objectives of our parliamentary group, and at this point we cannot be alone. We're not looking for conflict with languages, please. It is obvious: we do not want to dictate any more Catalan hours or more castle hours, if we are talking about universities. It is not defense the català attacking the castle, it is not defense the castle attacking the català. We remind them that there is university autonomy, which is what we defend by the world of everything. When the main problem of the university system on the part of the government is to shield the catalá in a concrete percentage, this is an exhibition of not knowing the university reality correctly. When the problem with other non-independence right-wing parties is that there's little chateau in the universities, it's also not hearing the university reality. Let's not talk about when those non-independence right-wing groups precisely come to the conclusion that what they can do best for the university and to defend the university and improve the university system is to share a political tent with the far right of this country, share a tent with VOX. In short, our group will ask for a separate vote on the different points of this motion. And, for what it does to our opposition pocket and our usual taranna, we will continue to complain about what we understand is essential to improve the functioning of the university system that we have said so many times: scholarships, the problem of interns, underfunding, the impulse of research and the transfer of knowledge. To debate stars and inefficiencies that bring little but they grow much do not ever count on the PSC. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.118.0	Then, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the word the deputy Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.119.0	Well, thank you, President. Members and deputies, counsel... Today Ciutadans presents us here with a motion on barrage, so you're afraid very different little linked to the university, such as attacks on freedom of thought and expression, neutrality, knowledge of angled language, català, castle... well, lots of themes. At first we could think, therefore, that what they have done is a lençol young man, but no. No, because we know who they are and what they represent you, don't we? , and also those who accompany them around: some games with a clear goal, which is to carry continuously..., to carry and promote hatred and chrism, right? And, if you can, always using the language as the weapon to sow the division between Catalans. And this guy's from this, he's not from college. They know perfectly well that the numbers on the català do not give them reason. The català is clearly back in all spheres, and so is the university. And they could prove it by stepping up the universities of truth and not just a couple of times a year with their little syllable, right? , which is only to be seen with the university and which only go to make a political mess, to look for the photo and to generate conflict with the university community. And also, this time, to get the police to enter the university as in other times, and – this yes – end up, therefore, with attacks on the university community. And say assaults because I assume you've seen the videos, as I've seen, where the police hit the head of the students. [[Widow's remorse.]] They go there because they know that who sows winds– odi, in his case – retreats tempestates. They go there to attack the català, to demand the illegalization of youth political organizations. They go there because their political space has been reduced, because they have no more proposals than to constantly attack the Catalan language and the Catalan people. Once again, from here all the support to the Union of Students of the Catalan Countries and also to the Anti-Feixist Platform of the Autonomous to try, once again, that "political syringuths external to the university, with the complicity of the parties that endorse them, cannot enter to break the coexistence to the university community. [[Some applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, the Catalan language is connected as all the languages of the world and does not need any other language that makes it intermediary, and less a language that, as you say all too often, speaks so many millions of people; but what they don't say is that they speak it because in blood and fire they imposed it, destroying cultures and sincere languages within the planet. And this way, this way to do it, to impose and destroy it, is what they intend to do to Catalonia a long time ago. In fact, you are quite certain that you are the heretics of the New Plant Decree of 1714 or the heretics of those who won by disgrace the war of 39. They are the heretics of all attempts to exterminate the Catalan language. And that's what this young man did, and no college. Vote no. They won't pass. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.120.0	Thank you, Congressman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.121.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, welcome. Members and Members... Basically this young man..., it is true that he is a little bit of a poti-poti of many things, but basically he raises debates in two aspects: in public freedoms, in freedom of association, in which he has passed to the Autonomous – I think we have all seen the images and we have all debated it in committee... –, he also raises indirectly, we consider ourselves..., on freedom of professorship and law and university autonomy, which forms part of the phonenal rights in our country, and, later, a debate on languages in which various things sweep, the debate between the catalan and the castle and the debate on the third language, on the English language. On freedom, I don't know which of you to turn back the sentences and the officials, all the political parties in Catalonia, but we obviously condemn all the rapes, and if there have been attacks, we also condemn them. I don't know if we need to send you a form in some registry because you're telling us or something, but in any case, you're gonna let us know. What we don't share is the answer you give to it. And, in fact, the text of the young man is a little..., he was going to say a delusion, but I'm looking for another word and I'm not being listened to. Posa: "Condemns the passivity of the Rectorate of the Autonomous, an attitude that is interpretable as an implicit position in favor of the aggressors and against the victims of the attacks. Home, you see, I..., can be critical, the interventions made by the rector of the Autonomous, but say this barbarity in a young man, to me personally seems excessive. Therefore, they lacked space to hold him as the intellectual author of the attacks that might have occurred. I think that this time it would be necessary to attack the rectoral teams of the universities you also have to see with their own powerlessness at the time of building up as a living organization in the assembly of civil society, but we consider that from here to accuse the rectors of the universities of little more than encouraging aggression at their universities..., it is an excessive hair. But, besides – and that's why I do – it has to do with your own university autonomy and how you seek to restrict spaces of this university autonomy. We think they'll never find us here, and we'll never support them. Precisely the university autonomy has much to do with this which you claim, that the university is a free, plural space, where there can be different ideas. And attacking it also attacks the basis of democratic coexistence at the conjunct of university communities. And, therefore, I believe that they throw stones at their own roof which you claim. And, on the languages, you say one thing that we would vote for that, because, besides, I think they're putting the debate on the other side. They say something like this: "Catalan and castle learn from school and school, and to universities what is to be done is to learn English, when precisely the problem about English is backwards, that comes out of compulsory education with some levels of English that then do not allow the university to end with a B2 of English, with the First of English. And, therefore, the debate would certainly have to be refocused on the contrary of what you put in the motions. In any case, in these assumptions there has been a departure for the learning of English and why these elements – and I do agree with that –... ; it is to say, to remove the English B2 and to enable alternative mechanisms obviously in some way exemplifies the fracture at the time of being marked as objective that an output of the university with the B2. But this is a cost..., it has to be answered by offering instruments that allow English learning both to primary and secondary education as well as to the university as a whole, because if we plant linguistic requirements and then we don't give tools to the students, what we are doing is generating an obvious socio-economic biach for which who can't afford a private academy can't have a university career. And at this point, we won't be found either. On the subject of youth, there are some points on which we agree, for the most part we will have to abstain or vote that we do not, but basically ours" is not subject to these two questions: first, that we must claim areas of free English learning, of access to students, of education, and second, that in this constant erosion of university autonomy we will not be found there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.123.0	Thank you, President. Look, neither Catalan society is at the service of the Generalitat nor should the rectorates be at the service of an ideology. And something as simple, as democratic and liberal as these assertions is light years away from the pretensions of separatism. Independentist politicians are creating a very large Generalitat, so large that it seeks to occupy all the spaces of society. A great Generalitat and a small society, or at least a homogeneous society. I believe that is the dream of the Torra, the Puigdemont and the Aragonès in turn. Independence does not want to leave any space of freedom to Catalans, nor to university, and I believe that you are doing young people and their future a little favor when you put universities at the service of the independence cause. I think you would like to see the same pluralism in universities as in the Council of the Republic, in the National Assembly or in Ómnium, judging by what you say here, huh? Not for anything else. But what they achieve by excluding Spanish and attacking freedom of expression is only devaluing university degrees. I told you a while ago, Mrs Geis: we are losing competitiveness with regard to universities in the rest of Spain and in the rest of Europe, too. Last week we again contemplate some unfortunate facts at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, and it is also not the first time that they happen. And we have also heard regrettable speeches here today, in this regard. And they're related, one thing to the other, the facts we see in the Autonomous with the speeches we hear here. As on other occasions, the small siblings of separatism tried to boycott an act of a constitutionalist association. These cowards tried to silence, with violence and with threats, the voice of the young people, of the young people of S'Ha Afinet! which defend the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. Their little cops, as I say, was not the first time they attacked, we had seen other similar episodes and also, in days before, some tents. And now, in the face of the applause of some independent leaders and the nauseating complacency of the rectorate, they decided to do it again. They believed themselves to be unpunished and legitimate, because some Members of this House, instead of condemning them, offered them all their support, as Mrs Eulàlia Reguant did, or as Mr Cornellà also did today, who would have to give you shame not to condemn the violence, which we are in democracy, Mr Cornellà, and violence has no place – it has no place – so I say. We, of course, from the People's Party condemn all kinds of violence, even when they attack the independenceists, because here we do not have to choose, there is no good violence and bad violence, but you do distinguish it, distinguish it and promote it. It's a real shame, really. That's enough. Enough to encourage the violent, enough of the passivity on the part of the rectorate of the Autonomous University, enough to look elsewhere and enough of that hypocritical equidistance of those who sit between the aggressors and the victims. Violence and intimidation must be expelled from universities, from those premises which should be devoted to freedom and knowledge. And you, nationalism, trying to eliminate pluralism, I insist that all you get is to create a smaller, poorer Catalonia. Eliminating pluralism, some declare a war on intelligence. Nor does knowledge seem to be of interest to them. You, as you are so obsessed with eliminating Spanish, do not realize the importance of English, and your bet on monolingualism is totally impoverishing. English should be a normal language of expression in universities, but, of course, you don't look beyond your navel. You cut opportunities and also cut our students' rights. Look, most Catalan society wants a trilingual education system, with Catalan, of course, Spanish and also with a foreign language, such as English. And from the People's Party we share that wisdom, which, I insist, coincides with the majority of Catalan society. Trying to impose its monolingual system remains opportunities. You can and must, of course, defend Catalan, without having to marginalize or exclude Spanish and English. And spying on teachers, Mrs. Geis, that's still rights, it's the same as authoritarian regimes. That Platform-subsidized campaign... well, no, not-subsidized, subsidized by you, by the entity..., of Platform per la Llengua contra la liberté de catedra has to be condemned and, above all, it has to have consequences. We have already announced from here that we condemn, of course, all the attacks on freedom, all the Spanish-speaking attitudes, and we demand the Government of the Generalitat to eliminate any subsidy to this entity, which is dedicated to persecuting and pointing out those who speak Spanish. Now it's time for the teachers. And, by the way, this also goes for the Socialist Party, because the Barcelona Parliament also subsidized with public money, money from all Catalans, to this platform, which, I insist, are the hooligans of Catalan. From here, all my support for the young people of S'Ha Afinat! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.124.0	On behalf of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group, Mrs Judith Toronjo has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.125.0	Good afternoon, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Once again today Ciutadans presents a motion that makes a totally sloppy X-ray, that seeks conflict, that seeks confrontation, that questions university autonomy as well and threatens our language. And it does so with a single objective, which is polemizing about a question as important as the Catalan university system. And we can't start any other way than remembering the events that took place last week at the Autonomous University of Barcelona at the hands of the Entity It's over! And to which some political formations of this chamber were added. And it is that, once again, some Members who continually put the word 'freedom' in their mouths act as the extreme right. And it's very easy..., and I wonder: if they act like the extreme right, are they the extreme right? [[Pause.]] What I'm sure of is that they're a lot more than the repression apparatus, like the Spanish State, that pursues the language, that pursues our political leaders, that attacks our institutions. And, all that, picked up and bleached by a few forces. Given this context, from Juntes to Catalunya, we value the task of teaching, of research, of transferring knowledge from Catalan universities, and we want to claim that they can continue to do so as quality standards, as we see in the reports. And I answer to Mrs. Roldán: although I weigh her, although I don't like her, the best three universities in the Spanish State are Catalan. So... true dice. That's why we demand that they stop using universities politically, that they stop checking them out, from the faculty, from their universities; that they stop breaking down Catalan society, because we live in a totally cohesive society. And it's that they won't get it, they won't get to divide it by much that they do, by much that they threaten, as we've seen, by the way of this young man. For another band, in the text we also see, a little more, as is the question of university autonomy. And, really, I wonder if you know what college autonomy is, because I think it's proven that they don't care either. Ignore that it is recognized for the Catalan law of universities, that it holds them to full freedom of organization and also self-government, but it is also that they ignore their mission, that it is to encourage this critical spirit, of reflection, like the space of debate, of freedom of opinion and democracy, things that obviously you do not understand. This is why we are firmly committed to the defence of universities, their autonomy, the Catalan university system and freedom of expression, fundamental pillars of an open society, of a tolerant society and of progress that, moreover, aspires, from Junts to Catalonia, to be free. In the end, this young man attacks again the Catalan language, and does not alienate us – do not alienate us – coming from a party that was only born to liquidate the catalan and that stores behind a false liberalism, his will to end with any kind of identity of Catalan national aspect. And I'll tell them for the first time, as we did today in the march of this House: the language of your own and driving to Catalonia is the català, despite the weights, the likes or the likes of the least. This is why we reiterate our commitment to the Department of Research and Universities and to this task that has ended with the drive of the catalá guaranteeing the linguistic rights of students, which is perfectly compatible also with international universities, open to the world, validating this decree of the B2 and incorporating in the framework of the assumptions of the Generalitat also a specific game. Allow me also, Counselor, to congratulate you on the ingenious task in these assumptions, which consolidate this new department. Therefore, while the most progressive government in history, which is also, at the same time, the most deceiving government in history, as the president of my parliamentary group said, continues with this will to end with linguistic diversity, to impose twenty-five percent of the castle on the classrooms, or we see it openly with the law of the audiovisual..., before all this, let us make clear from the Catalan institutions, but also from the streets, the very 18th of September, that the Catalan is not touched. Because protecting one language is not much less threatening another. And I say this in the first person, as the Spanish-speaking family, that I recognize this model of linguistic immersion, this model of success in which we live, and that the only threat that divides our country is its repression, is its lack of freedom and this constant willingness to liquidate our language, our culture and our birth. Before all this, we continue to persist and continue to win. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.126.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word Mr Carles Castillo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.127.0	Good afternoon. Good afternoon to everyone. Forgive me, because I'm having some asthma. Mr. Martín Blanco, you and I have a good personal relationship, a friendly relationship, but let's just start by saying one thing: you're a master over there from the iron punch and silk glove. You see here, we go up to tell you the rule of lying, and you ask us to make a strong, well-rounded, and well-rounded dialog, etc. So miri, let me tell you the first of the automentides of Spanish nationalism. The first of the self-minds is that the Spanish nation, Spanish nationalists, does not exist. The Spanish nation doesn't exist. As much as you have a plurinational state, Mr. Martin Blanco. We're in front of a Ciutadans youth... [[Greetings.]] It is to be said, it is to be said: the Spanish nation does not exist, Spanish nationalists. They present to you a young man who once again fills his obsessions with various things around the Catalan university. They come to dare to insinuate a lack of democracy to the Catalan university to end, of course, the subject of language and the subject of espionage. Hey, Ciutadans lords, Ciutadans lords and lords, that the reality above all does not space them a good headline. Because, besides, the facts of reality do not accompany them, as they say. Without going further, they claim that the Catalan university is losing the English train, and from 2014-2015 to 2019-2020 there is an increase of 97.5_per_cent in the number of assignments given in third languages. But you're exactly the same, you're only interested in the raca-raca, you're only interested in the political shipwreck. You have the excuse is the university; others, the excuse will be the school, the economy, but its own is always the same. You don't worry about the problems of our universities, our young people, our citizens or our businesses; for Ciutadans, all these sectors are just an excuse to use them. Look, I'll tell you three things around your young lady. First of all, on the subject of S' Ha Finat! ...I don't think the boys and girls are done! I'm just a bunch of bewitches. I repeat, I don't think the boys and girls are finished! I'm just a bunch of bewitches. Now, the thing that's happened, and we've all seen it, is that people who gave them support are with them raising their arms to the beholder style. Without going further, a deputy of the ultrathreat seemed to do it – from this chamber –, handling the representation of the people of Catalonia in this chamber hard. [[View Remover]] - No, no, no, No, maybe he was asking for a cab or a salutant. I don't know. [[Some applause.]] That's what happened. That is what has happened, lords and lords of Ciutadans. We've seen this all over the world. And I don't remember anyone who's finished! asking that, please, you're not a gift to support this kind of people. Maybe it's happened, too, and I don't know, but I haven't seen it. Two: that they always feel so critical to defend their country may mean that their country needs a lot of defense. Because a safe and proud country of itself, a country that is undisputed in democratic matters, does not need to be dealt with as you do, accompanied by the most bitter, by land, sea and air. And, finally, three: the theme of the language, and I tell you, I charnego and that I have the castle as the mother tongue. There is no problem in this country with language. There's no problem with the language in a company that's already bilingual, ladies and gentlemen. It's not, for a lot of people to understand, and for a lot of people to get involved, because most people change, it adapts indistinctly depending on the situation, even in the family sphere. As I do: I speak with my parents in the castle and with my children in the català. And do you know why, lords and lords of Ciutadans? Do you know why? Not because he's a proud son of linguistic immersion, which he's also. Do you know why I'm talking to my children in català charnego, who have the castle as their mother tongue? Because, if you don't, you won't talk to anyone in your personal and family environment outside the college. Otherwise, they won't talk to him. Because all their surroundings, because the majority pressure of the castle makes them learn this cool, complex and rich castle that you say and that, by the way, they do not always represent, that here there is a lot of "study of violet," I also say. And they will say: "Well, speak of Tarragona, speak of Cambrils... This in a town in the interior of Catalonia is not so. Okay. But it's that you, then, are doing exception politics. Your political fan sorting the exception and indignant that this exception exists. That's all right, gentlemen and gentlemen of Ciutadans. Because, besides, they know perfectly well what they're doing and how they're doing it, that's a big irresponsibility. And that, lords and lords of Ciutadans, is bad political arts. So, naturally, we will vote against all of your motion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.128.0	Finally, to pronounce on the papers, has the parula the deputy Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.129.0	Thank you, President. Well, I'll try to go fast. I will start with the Member of the Republican Left – who has seemed to me perhaps the most surrealist of all – and the obvious finding that we live, indeed, in a regime of organized political lies. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carles Castillo... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Please, be quiet. I'd like to finish the speech quietly, and I'd ask you, President... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's see, Mr. Castillo. You say... you come here, and of course you must know much more than John Elliott, that Lynch, than all the great international historians and leading journalists of the world. You know much more, and you solemnly tell us that the Spanish nation does not exist. Wow, a character who comes to me to talk about 1714 – like his colleagues in the CUP – who comes to me to talk about some issues that have very little to do with the political nation. Wow, I think we should be a little more humble in this regard. By the way, I find it quite disturbing that you, who represent precisely that regime of organized political lies, tell me about Mr. Tarradas' photo – let's call things by his name – when you're greeting a friend, and do you mean that that's a Nazi greeting? [[Rialles.]] It's pathetic, and it's funny that they're laughing. They take their hands to their heads. Hey, don't fool the citizens of Catalonia. Let's watch the video all of us. They'll take our hands to our heads. Do you really believe that this photograph, in which it is evident that Mr. Tarradas is not making a greeting to the Roman, is a greeting to the Roman? Whom do they pretend to deceive? Are you so foolish that you think you are your voters? Are you so foolish that you think you are your voters? [[Some applause.]] The gentlemen of the CUP, the gentlemen of Convergence or of Junts per Catalunya, the gentlemen of Esquerra...? It's just that it's just unfortunate, I'm telling you. Look, Mr. Tarradas is not my party mate, what's going on is that [[remorse of the voice]] Obviously... [[Rialles.]] President, I did, but I assume that will be taken into account. It's just, if you don't... it's very difficult. It's just, really... I, really, really tell you very honestly. I don't know how embarrassing it is for them to do this... Because any ordinary citizen who sees that photo, who isn't alienated, will say: "This boy is greeting a friend. And it turns out that you invent a greeting to the Roman. It's nonsense. It's ridiculous, really. They're just ridiculous. And again I say one thing to you, and, by the way, to the comrade of the Socialist Party, from the intellectual and affective respect I have for you: of course, I prefer to take pictures of myself with VOX than with Otegi, than with Junqueras and that with all this patulea, of course – of course. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.130.0	The debate is over, so I'm guessing that this young man's vote is gonna be this late, once we substantiated the next item on the agenda. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan language of justice]] [[302-00063/13]] The twenty-five point of the order of the day is the motion following the question to the Government on the Catalan language to justice, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia. He has the word, to expose it, Mr. Francesc Ten.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.131.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. MPs and MPs, very late. Hurt the language, the way it is, is to attack the collective and peaceful living gains of Catalan society. And, unfortunately, as long as the pre-electoral attacks on Catalonia appear on the political surface as a Guadian, as a citizen, as a dofi instrumentalization for couples and unionist parties to mark the land and the linguistic conflict between all of us, to mark the linguistic conflict with the Catalan society; a society that from Junts, from independence, we are convinced that we have to keep the language as a guarantee of cohesion of the future, of common project in its diversity; each with the familiar language that it has, but all with a catalan thread that joins us all together and that connects us with this land, as well as with simplicity. Someone commented to me that it was expected more strength and clarity in the writing. Escort, from Junts, for the precariousness and bad health of the català to justice, we want to seek consensus. We have already expressed our position – I myself, in committee and in this House – clearly on immersion and on the thin audiovisual pact. But now we're in the justice sector, and this is a young man who, I insist, is a starting point. I won't talk to them about quotas. I would like, frankly, to be able to speak of quotas and to speak of good figures favourable, for example, to the number of sentences in Catalan, but that is not so. We believe that it is good, too, to seek consensus on a question that should be as normal and customary as it should be the use of català as language to convey justice. It's settled that many times we don't have..., or some don't have the mental mark that this is supposed to be. It is a young man who sees that he can make a diagnosis and know what to do, a young man who urges the Government to take action and to bring a Catalan pact to justice, and it is a young man who urges the General Council of the Judiciary to do so, following the recommendations of the Council of Europe, in line with the European charter of minority languages. I would like to thank the groups that have voted in favour of the Language Pact. The others have already seen that the sun is discarded; we see it repeatedly here, at the control session yesterday, to the commissions... Congresswoman Sílvia Romero, of the PSC, expressed that Spain must advance in the recognition of the multilingual character of the State. So this is the feeling of this young man: receding, advancing and improving the poor presence of the català in the administration of justice, because it's a question of rights. Why can't we do it in Catalan, the Catalans? Why can the Catalans do it in the castle? Why can't legal operators do this, with all normality and freedom, at all stages and instigations of effective judicial protection, in catalá? Why are the powers of the State, the same General Council of the Judiciary, shielding the non-use of the Catalan language? So why the politicization of justice and the consequent judicialization have been instrumental and embedded in the linguistic issue, because they think that this is how they attack independence. But, listen to me, they're wrong. It's a lot deeper, I said. In fact, they still give us reason to not stop being independent. It's so clear and Catalan. The Department of Justice already acts, and many, but the important solution will pass – we trust – to adopt the multilingual look of Article 2 of the Constitution or independence. What does the department do? The department continuously diagnoses a Catalan language preservation and promotion plan, a Catalan language use plan for jutjats and jails, a Catalan language use plan for victim care, for sworn translators. The department promotes agreements with the Council of the Illustrious Colleges of Lawyers of Catalonia; participates in agreements with other institutions and entities – yes, also with the Platform for Language, necessary Platform for Language –; acts to protect the Catalan university, the schools of legal practice, the judicial schools, and gives to know the tools that the department itself has put to the Administration of Justice, such as, for example, the LexCat portal, or implements the linguistic option to the e-Justice. And more than he can do, if he feels endorsed by this chamber and this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.132.0	To defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.133.0	Thank you, President. Well, ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Ten, I think we've been talking before, let's just say, our papers to this young man, and we're precisely introducing some papers that come up in the line of making a copy of what you're planting for justice, because, effectively, justice is one of the areas of Catalan life in which the Catalan language has a smaller, more minority presence. And, therefore, from this point of view, we, like the parliamentary group in Ciutadans, are supporters of promotion and promotion measures that are kind, that are not less likely, or that do not suppose a lesser shot of the Spanish language..., we are supporters of the promotion of the Catalan language. The question is that, of course, asking for this, I insist, to parties that defend or that they aspire to is a replacement of the Spanish language for the Catalan language is almost impossible. Because you will consider it normal that we actually support measures to promote Catalan language, and, in change, you are not willing to do the same in other areas of public life, such as education. You run out of clothes when someone asks for twenty-five percent of school hours in the castle, it seems like an absolutely out of order. Like a few years ago, when Mr. Maragall – now to Republican Left, was at that time in the Socialist Party –, which asked for the third hour of castle in the week – the third, huh? , that there is only one, of castle, throughout the week–..... at that time it was a third hour, and this assumed a terrabastall in the Catalan political field. Just like when a member of the People's Party served the castle in this chamber and the members of Convergence disappeared and cried out, "What's going on here? That there's kids in the hemicle! That's what happened here – that's what happened here. It's one thing, I insist, surrealist, one of a nationalist regime, that some have normalized and that they consider it the most common thing, the most normal thing in the world, but it doesn't really happen anywhere in the world. Therefore, this young man, Mr. Ten, I insist, has aspects that are interesting. And we will have the ability or, I believe, even from modesty, the lofty aim of being able to vote that yes to what seems reasonable; we will abstain in what does not seem understandable to us, and, above all, we will not go through the idea that Spain is a state, a country that recognizes less its linguistic plurality than others. The linguistic rights of Catalan citizens who are being questioned in Catalonia are the linguistic rights of Catalan citizens speaking Spanish. The linguistic rights of Catalan speaking citizens are absolutely guaranteed in a country like ours, which really recognizes its linguistic plurality infinitely more than other countries around us, which also – even though some do not know – have regional languages or languages different from official languages at the country's side. France is one example, Italy is another, Germany has also... And, therefore, the situation of the català would be the envy of any other minority language to other countries of the world. But you, I insist – and I already know that this is an idea that I have repeated in a couple of occasions today, but... – you continue to live in a system of organized political lies. It's not my phrase, it's Hannah Arendt's, but I remember it's exactly what you do. They are presenting the situation of the català as catastrophic, brandishing the linguistic catastrophe, which is the one that has always made nationalism, inventing a heaviness, inventing a supposed persecution of the oppressed people, to justify the excesses that you commit like those that hold political power in Catalonia. That you continue to present yourself as oppressed when in reality it is those who are submissive to the citizens of Catalonia speaking Spanish or the citizens of Catalonia who also feel Spanish to a repression of their visit to Catalonia, to a repression of their linguistic rights, seems to me, if not, questionable or, if not, questionable. And I insist, I think it's not good for the Catalan language, this hysterism, this linguistic catastrophe that you're putting in circulation, that the only thing that does is distort reality. It is distorting reality and preventing, I insist once more, rational debate on language. So much for Catalonia to have a rational debate on language in the judicial and educational issues. I personally said the other day... or before yesterday, in an article in the ABC newspaper. And what I said was... to defend, precisely, a rational debate because we can defend our model, a trilingual model, in which the català, the castle and the English are still langens to the schools, and you can defend yours, which is a monolingual model, which excloses the language of most Catalans, the castle, of the Catalan classrooms. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.134.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Rubén Viñuales.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.135.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... whenever I see a question to a motion about justice, I can't deny that happiness is cheering me up and returning to my soul a breath of hope. A ray of sun enters through the window of my wallpaper, illuminating the text, which is almost divided document, and sounds an uncertain source music that surrounds me everything. In my mind, I feel that I once again believe in the useful policy of this Parliament. It's a thrill to experience that our worthy institution is once again staring at it really important for Catalans and Catalans, and my negit is getting longer to hear the song of the tax attorney and Catalonia's own mythic Atlântida, obviously, in case the company of the perverse Spain does not suffer. This whole epic moment has an explanation, it is not gratuitous, since, as you well know, justice is not exactly one of the themes we are most concerned with in this esteemed Parliament. And with this predisposition, they wouldn't deny me that it was more than favorable, I read the motion. But I can't deny my disenchantment by proving that once again justice is used to campaign for honest and honorable aliens. Look, the judge speaks of our right as Catalans speaking Catalan to the Administration of Justice. Thus, it quotes some of the regulations that protect us in this essential and just right from all Catalans and Catalans to express us in Catalan in all the areas that we want in Catalonia. All our firm, clear and sincere support that all of us can use the català there where we want our land, Catalonia, and, obviously, also to the Administration of Justice. This means that we will vote in favour and with firm conviction for points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of your motion. But, as we have said before, the motion has defrauded us; the first motion, if I have no misconception, of Junts concerning justice, and that he has not spoken of issues such as the lack of personnel from the Administration of Justice – about fifty_per_cent of interveners... – ; he does not speak of the pressure and exponential increase of aggressions to function and functions and how to avoid it ; he does not speak of the need for us in Catalonia ; he does not speak of the City of Justice or the justices of Sabadell ; he does not speak of the lack of justices and prosecutors; he does not speak of the best of free legal assistance or the law of democratic memory. In short, we are surprised that the first motion made by Juntes concerning justice is not to claim all this, but to claim from the General Council of the Judiciary that the Catalan is a request and not a merit to accede, in this case, to the place of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia. Look, I'm the son of linguistic immersion. I'm also the son of Pepi, who is extreme [[the timer riu]] - No, no, no, This made my mother tongue the castle, but I'm lucky to have two languages in my cultural heritage. Two languages that I regard as equal, that I defend as equal and that I speak as equal. Catalan is also our heritage, and we must always defend it, but they must allow me to, in order to explain better my negative, our refusal to require, in this case, the Catalan as requested and not as deserved in the Administration of Justice in Catalonia, to use the words of a wise person, a person whom you are convinced to respect, and which relate fully to the subject we are dealing with today, and which, moreover, we totally agree with. "Everyone is very welcome to Catalonia, and we would still like more and more people to come. We are a Catalonia that attracts talent in the training period. And at any time the language will not serve to discriminate or prevent professional coming from outside Catalonia. Before I gave welcome to these people; I returned them to give, they came from where they came. And, listen, the more people, the better. And, once in a while, we're not thrilled. And the citizenry will be delighted, and will be integrated. Because if you go to hospitals, to primary care centers, you'll see people from all over the world, and you'll also come from outside; from outside, from outside, from outside of Catalonia and from outside of Spain. And that's what's normal: it's attracting talent, it's living, living. And the language has to serve us to live together and not to face it. This is the ideal of Catalonia, this will follow the ideal of Catalonia. And I repeat: welcome all these people, welcome all these professionals and welcome all those who want to come. All of it. The words of the Councillor of Salut, the illustrious Lord Josep Maria Argimon and Pallàs, yesterday in this plenary. We only ask them to do what their own advisor said. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.136.0	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr Sergio Macián has the word now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.137.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, Members of Parliament... This motion by Junts per Cat is presented to us. in a new victimistic exercise, trying to make us believe that there is a problem of discrimination, of the marginalization of Catalan in the administration of justice. And, first of all, we have to say that such a problem does not exist. If there is a problem, it is the opposite, of marginalization of the Spanish, of marginalization of the Spanish in everything that the Generalitat manages: in education, in the public media, even in justice. Where the Generalitat has competences, Spanish is not astomized. And I'm going to give you several examples. The software application of procedural management, which is the programme with which all judicial decisions are made, is exclusively in Catalan. The Arcte, the program for recording judicial videos, is exclusively in Catalan. The labelling of courts, offices, offices and courtrooms is exclusively in Catalan. The cartelry, the stationery, the headlines, the envelopes of the courts, the judicial bodies, are exclusively in Catalan. If there is a discriminatory language in the Administration of the Generalitat in the field of justice, that is, precisely Spanish. [[Some applause.]] But let us now turn to the question of its use. Both languages coexist and are used by legal operators with total normality: by lawyers, by prosecutors, by officials in the administration of justice, and most importantly, by citizens, who use Catalan and Spanish indiscriminately without any problem, and whoever says otherwise lies or does not know the reality of the courts. There are hundreds of writings, demands and resources in Catalan, every day, and there are hundreds of writings, demands and resources in Spanish. What there are are no complaints and attestations of the mossos d'esquadra in Castilian, because you force them to do them exclusively in Catalan; another discrimination in favor of Castilian. [[Some applause.]] In short, there is no problem with Catalan in the administration of justice; the problem you have with freedom of choice of language. It bothers them that there are people who choose Spanish. And, by the way, before we demand a greater presence of Catalan in the field of justice, man, we must have a little honesty: you must comply with the judicial rulings in linguistic matters, because we must have a lot of nerve to come here to Parliament to demand a greater presence of Catalan in justice and, at the same time, to exclude Spanish from the classrooms of Catalonia. And, about your request to require the General Council of the Judiciary to be a requirement, Catalan, in the provision of places of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia and not a merit, that is a unconstitutional and discriminatory request. To consider the knowledge of Catalan as a requirement for access to the public service and not as a merit would lead to the exclusion in the selection process of all candidates who do not know the language, which violates the principle of equality in article 14, article 23.2 of the Constitution and article 103 of the Magna Charter. And it would be discriminatory, because, for example, a judge in Extremadura could not occupy a judge's seat in Catalonia, and, instead, a judge in Catalonia could occupy a judge's seat in Extremadura. Catalan can never be a requirement for access to the public service, but only a merit, and, in addition, a merit that must always be assessed proportionally in the light of the particular position in question. That is to say, it can never prejudice the professional competence of the public office that is intended to be held. And I'm going to give you an example of what you don't have to do. In the merit score for being an alternate judge or a substitute judge in Catalonia – and this is an agreement of the Standing Committee of the General Council of the Judiciary – Catalan knowledge is valued at 0.60 points, and having a doctorate in law is valued at 0.50 points. That is, that a bad substitute judge who speaks Catalan is preferred to a good substitute judge who knows and applies the law in depth but does not speak it. [[Some applause.]] It is therefore unconstitutional and discriminatory to require knowledge of a co-official language as a requirement. And unfortunately, Catalonia does it with respect to its autonomous officials – Article 42 of Legislative Decree 1/97 – but Galicia does it too, Balearics does it, the Basque Country does it and Navarra does it. By the way, in Galicia, where the PP governs, which has long since ceased to have a unique speech for the nation. That is why VOX presented in June this year a non-legislative proposal in Congress proposing the amendment of the law of the basic status of the public employee, which is the basic legislation that the State enacts under its exclusive competence under article 149.1.18 to establish the basis of the statutory regime of all public officials, regardless of the administration in which they serve. The proposal intended that the statute of the public employee should explicitly state that official languages can only be considered as merit, but never as requirement. When we govern, be assured that we will change it to guarantee the equal rights and obligations of all Spaniards throughout the national territory. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.138.0	On behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, has the word now the MP Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.139.0	Thank you, President. Hey, everybody again. Counselor... I'll bring some data against negationism. And in any case, I'll start with Mr. Martin Blanco's party, which has made a review of the countries that say that we did so well in the State. Therefore, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe has already addressed the Spanish Government to require it to apply the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages and to intensify precisely the measures intended to ensure the proper presence of co-official languages in the State Administration. Certainly, the marginality of the Catalan administration to the Spanish administration is not required to access the official places of the administration of justice rooted in the territories where it is the official language, and this contrasts totally with other countries. Miri, Belgium: the courts, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice must know the language of the territory where they act. There is no general requirement for knowledge of a single language, but varies according to the territory. Switzerland: the courts, prosecutors and lawyers of the Administration of Justice must know the language of the territory where they act. Only if they know German, the most spoken language of confederation, in those territories where it is their own language. Canada: Justice officials must know English or French, according to which language is the first language of the territory in which they operate, but there is no obligation to know English throughout the territory, as happens in Spain with the castle. Flying any more? Look, in the last fifteen years the català to justice has gone from being served in thirty-u_per_cent in court proceedings written to a set_per_cent. Therefore, we fully share this motion for a resolution. That's the advance we'll vote for. And I'm also telling them that, despite this – we've already communicated, too – we think it's short. And it's short because, despite the fact that there's all this legislation that teaches the right to make the català serve justice, that doesn't happen. And why doesn't it happen? There's a lot of motius. The main one, which we mentioned: the judges, the magistrates, the prosecutors and the lawyers of the Administration of Justice and the official staff of the State are obliged to know castella, yes, but not to know Catalan. As the law of the judiciary and Regulation 2/2011, of the judicial career, do not contemplate it as only a merit to obtain a place in Catalonia, the Valencia Country or the Balearic Islands, and the only value it gives it is a score – nor as only a merit, a score – for the contest to choose the destination a time has already been awarded, as it happens, all the staff that sees here neither the able to speak nor the full. And so, what's the point of the law getting us to serve the català if then it turns out that the staff can't do it? But there are more things. It turns out that there is the material, for example, of the judicial operators: manuals, codes, legislation..., it is all written in vast majority in Spanish language. There is no state, community, international legislation published or ratified by the Spanish State before 1998. The laws that are published to the BOE are translated into the Catalan version always late, and the lack of updating of the Catalan legislation means that the legislation in the castle is the only one that offers legal certainty to practice, and that the only speakers who can access the laws in their language are the chatterers. This gives rise to an important comparison between linguistic communities, and causes judges, lawyers and prosecutors to pass through the functioning of the català. While the castle has the guarantee of the State for what it does to the editing of materials and to the law that it guarantees to all legislation, the català does not. Catalonia is totally discriminated against in justice. There is no evidence: there are data on how everything is produced to justice – it is demonstrable data –..., there is no obligation to know the Catalan on the part of the officials who have to come to work in areas where language is spoken and there is the right to be able to serve it. And, therefore, we will give full support to the young man, whatever we say is still short. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.140.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the words of Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.141.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... well, the problem of using català to justice isn't a new problem, and it's a problem we've been talking about for years. My parliamentary group has already tabled a motion for the previous parliamentary term in this Parliament and we can also present a motion, a PNL, to the Congress not for years. What's going on? Let's say, according to official data, in 2004 more or less the twenty-i-u or twenty-i-dos_per_cent of the sentences and judicial resolutions were written in Catalan. This was over in 2004. 2012 went down to 12.7, 2017 to 8.2 and today we are to 7.4. And it's not a new problem. And, going over the data from the PNL that we presented to the Congress, we are at 7.4 and we can still say that we are fine, because Galicia is a four-per-cent, there are no official data to the Islands, but it seems to be that they are around the two and fall per cent, and to the Basque Country and Navarre..., I did not find official data on the euskera, but for what they say was not very good, the thing. The problem is why we have downloaded so much in so few years, why 2004 was practically already in a_quarter of the use of català in the field of justice and today we are in a 7.4_per_cent. Many things have surely passed along the way, but we have to say that the best stage of the català to justice was during the tripartite government, and not to bursage, but because some things were done in the realm of the use of català to justice that we believe will be recovered and strengthened. Among them, the català pilot plan to justice, which managed to achieve that, in a quarter of the jutjats in our home, between the eighty-one and the ninety-one percent of the feelings and acts were in català. And, therefore, he managed to push the use of català in the field of justice. That this program ended when the government won the best and it went into detail and eliminated the catalan use pilot board in the realm of justice. And, therefore, since then we have been taking steps back. Because there is also one element that we want to debate: why do we increase the weight of català – which I think is a common objective of all political forces at least that we feel represented by political catalanism–..., it is not only a requirement and it is not only a "buffer", so to speak, the field of justice in Catalonia, but it has also facilitated instruments and therefore turned the use of català into a virtuoso circle. Because who sees Catalonia imparting justice or working in the field of justice has instruments to learn it, has instruments to make it its own and to feel it as a language of its own, but for whom Catalan already knows and has seen Catalonia and wants to oppose justice, if I can pay them, because here we also have a problem. It is true in Catalonia that there has been little opposition tradition, and that this has caused many of the courts and workers in the field of justice to be outside Catalonia, but we also believe that there is a socio-economic bias between which they can agree to make some oppositions to justice. And we haven't talked about that in a few moments. If we are not able to increase the capacity of people who access the judicial career in Catalonia, we will always have a bilingual language in the Administration of Justice. And, on the last point of this young man, who asks that the català becomes, let's say..., from a merit to a demand in opposition, we are not against it, but yes, when we presented it to our young man, there is one thing that we think is necessary: precisely because many people who go to Catalonia to make legal career go to other parts of the State and because there is little opposition tradition here, we believe that the català can be a demand whenever there is time for adaptation and tools to learn it. And we think this has to be the virtuous circle that allows the people who go outside to work here to make themselves welcome to the catalá and feel 'lpropi. That they can come, but that they also have a few months, one year, that they have instruments to learn the català and to be able to issue, therefore, all the judicial acts in català and feel like doing it. And we believe that this is a very necessary element for us. We know that there is on the table a pact for justice, a Catalan pact for justice. We know that this will be one of the elements to discuss. So let's work on it; it won't be for us. But, we insist, we believe that, more than laying down barriers, the one that needs to lay down..., what explains part of the backsliding of the use of català in the realm of justice is that we have lost instruments because many of the public workers of justice in our home can learn and become close to català. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.142.0	Subsequently, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, Mrs Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.143.0	Yes, thank you, President. Since we are talking about language and Catalan, I am going to make a preview of one of the speeches I have heard in the previous point. I was speechless when I heard a Member from this rostrum say with pride that he is a carnego, an adjective that has always been used in derogatory, pejorative and racist terms. I really don't know what's going on in some people's heads, I don't know if they've been abducted or what, honestly. It is a pity that the honourable Member is not here, because, come on, let's get rid of them calling us carnegos, what do you want me to say... anyway. Look, you're experts at creating problems where there aren't. You always start from a false premise, you start to repeat it at all times, you also dress it with the usual mantras – repression, discrimination, persecution, etc. – and there comes a point where you yourselves believe that initial premise, which, I insist, was false. You have been here for years with the baton of supposed political prisoners, and now it is the turn of Catalan in all the areas that have happened and for having: Mrs Geis putting pro-denunciation mailboxes to control the faculty at universities; Mr Gonzàlez-Cambray, therefore, also now very outraged because it turns out that we have to teach one more subject in Spanish – a subject, oh! What outrage, my mother, what more serious thing, one more subject, please, huh? – those of Platforma per la Llengua also pointing to the nurses who came from Andalusia because they don't speak Catalan, and now it's time for justice. And, look, Justice has a lot of problems, Mrs Ciuró – we talked about it the other day on account of budgets – but none of them is Catalan, or at least not the most serious. Citizens can address the courts and courts in any of the official languages in Catalonia. Well, in any of the official languages in Catalonia, but for example... – I'm going to make a paragraph here – why don't you also ask for a mandatory spider, for example? Don't you? That the judges know perfectly well the spider, don't they? Since you ask..., you want to protect, they say, minority languages, because oigaoigael aranés, which is also official here in Catalonia. But, of course, they would stay with two judges – with two judges. Because your motion is not going to protect minority languages, your motion is going to eradicate Spanish in all areas. He said: all citizens can address themselves in Spanish and Catalan, in either of the two official languages; they can present, of course, the writings and documentation in either of these two languages, without that implying delays in the processing – the delays come from other issues, come because there is a shortage of material and human means, also, which is what we should be talking about today –; judgments and documents, of course, can also be asked in Catalan; more than seventy_per_cent of the workers have level C; both in the courts and in the registers are dealt with indiscriminately in both languages, look, which, for example, does not happen in educational centres, which address only families in Catalan – Mr Cambray has told us, that immersion goes far beyond the classrooms, also extends to corridors, extends to the courtyard and extends to communication with families; that does not happen in justice. But, of course, let's not be fooled, because the crusade you have here goes directly against the judges. You don't want judges from outside, and you told us, Mrs. Ciuro, literally: that you wanted Catalan judges, with pedigrees, didn't you? , with eight Catalan surnames. That's what you want. You can see the plumer miles away. Look, just a few days ago, the offices of the last judge promotion were handed over. More than half, seventy-three of these judges, will work in Catalonia. Why do so many judges come to Catalonia? Very simple: because Catalonia is the region where the most judges leave every year. There's a real diaspora. And it is not the result of chance, it is the result of that strategy of harassment of the most radical separatism. Even the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia has moved this concern, because, I insist, we are the region from which the most judges go and where they do not want to come. How are you gonna want to stay here? If they point out to them, they make slaps, they paint them in their own house – as happened with Judge Llarena –, they throw excrement and garbage at the door of the courts. What would you think, Mrs. Ciuro, if you came to your apartment, the Department of Justice, and every day you had there at the door excrement and garbage? How would you like it, Mrs. Ciuro? Do you know what I'm telling you? That I would condemn him. But I'm still waiting for you to condemn those vandalistic acts that we've lived at the door of the courts. That's the difference between you and me, among many other things. So no, we, of course, are not going to collaborate in this biased and fallacious account. And what they have to do is to put themselves to work on the shortcomings that exist in justice: we have to provide the judicial office with more means, we have to fix the shortcomings in the courts, we have to put an end to the temporality, we have to take more care of the workers, who make titanic efforts to carry out the mountain of outstanding matters. And, as we set ourselves, also set a date for the city of justice of Tarragona, which is a real shame that continues to mislead the loser with this theme. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.144.0	And finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.145.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... well, I, in the first place, what I would like to do is to thank Congressman Ten that at a time as close as this one we find with this young man. I believe that it is entirely appropriate, in a week when there is a Supreme Court ruling that imposes a quota of twenty-five percent of the classes in Spanish language, to be able to capture what is the reality of our country, and in a sector such as justice. And before the given was indicated: only 7.4_percent of the judicial resolutions are dictated in Catalan language, right? Therefore, it is an unquestionable fact for any legal operator, led him to defend his argument from lying, that the català has no presence in the legal and judicial sphere of our country. That said, deputy Martin Blanco, you could generate a lot of blow jobs, but you speak with all normality in the castle of this cliff. My fellow Members of the Congress of Deputies cannot do this, because they are forbidden to do so. Therefore, [[applause]] I believe that this Parliament is much more democratic than the Congress of Deputies. Well, the motivations for this situation are diverse, and I think we could all share in the diagnostic, but I think we can all agree that there is absolute disinterest on the part of the judiciary in resolving this situation. We have all had the opportunity to see the appearances of the President of the High Court of Justice; we see that when asked about this aspect in Parliament I run away from study and don't give no..., he doesn't make any proposal to try to resolve the situation, and therefore we can't foresee any solution from this area, can we? It is also true– and I believe that all those who have professionally dedicated themselves to the world of the right know this– that there is always a question..., when we have a client who wants to make a militia of his language, there is always the question of whether he is appropriate to do so in his court. And why? Because he has the full conviction that he may harm his interests. And that really doesn't have to do with a democratic state, it doesn't have to do with a just justice, but it does have to do with the fear that many of our citizens see in the administration of justice. And it is precisely how it is managed, by the judicial dome and by its component, its ideological bias. It is said what is said, and the Ciutadans Group claim it in its discussions, Spain has never embraced in a fervent way the compliment of the European Charter of Regional Languages. Moreover, if I am not mistaken, there has been the only country that has placed reservations apart from some of its articles, and more, if I am not mistaken, in Article 9.2, which precisely makes it worth the legal texts or agreements between private individuals that are in a language that is not Spanish. Therefore, I deeply disagree with you when you say that Spain is the champion of the defence of co-official languages, because it is not in any way; if not, you would act like Switzerland and Denmark, that you do believe in this principle, and that, therefore, they give value to all these languages together with the main language of the country. I would like to remind you that the Council of Europe has asked the Spanish Government to guarantee the use of the Catalan language in justice, and this is what the Socialist Party and the commons are asking for today's visit to the Government of Spain. In this report it is said that there is no progress or progress in resolving these cases and they recommend reviewing the legal system of the judiciary because it is clear that the judicial, civil and administrative authorities can use the co-official language if they ask one of the parties to do so – and we all know that this is not the way it is. They also report that most courts use the castle, and also that the number of judicial officials who speak co-official languages has not increased, if not significantly. For us, and I think that also for Albert Einstein, who said that if you want different results, do not always do the same, the solution has to pass, as is proposed in this case in the motion, because the català is a request and not just a merit, and also to reduce the mobility of the staff assigned to the service of the Administration of Justice. And there have been many, the efforts on the part of the Councillor of Justicia, also in this mandate, but also in the previous ones, therefore, to try to call opposition contests that faithful, in this case, the staff. I can't finally comment on the papers presented by the Citizens' Group. I must say, with the best of the tones, that they are of absolute cynicism. But what's there is a handshake, it's a pain in the ass. It is the number 3, which says that ‘the Parliament welcomes the fact that the citizens of Catalonia have recognised the right to use català in their relationship with the Administration of Justice in general, as in all stages of the judicial process in particular, which guarantees their right to effective judicial protection..., potatoes, potatoes. And we can't vote for that, because, if we did, it would be where African-American culture would call itself an Uncle Tom vote, you know? Uncle Tom of the Abolitionist Harriet Beecher Stowe's novel, Uncle Tom's cabin: what a good thing it is to love him, who with his magnanimous gesture lets us speak in Catalan to the justices of our country, which we pay with our effort. And I think the answer I have to give – and I finish, Madam President – is the same one that Uncle Tom told his master: « My soul does not belong to him, master, nor has he bought it or can he buy it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.146.0	In order to pronounce on the reports, the honourable Member, Mr Francesc Ten, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.147.0	Thank you, President. Very quickly, he wanted to thank the good deal, the negotiation facility and understanding with the Members of the PSC, the commons, the CUP, and the good iron of the Member Orobtig. Only one question, Mr Viñuales: this motion – the title already said – was a motion of the situation of the català to justice, not of many other things, which would be another motion. To Mrs. Roldán, who made many questions to the councilwoman, I want to make one. I ask you what it seems to you that Mr. Married has gone to Mass for Francisco Franco with pre-constitutional flags. [[Some applause.]] I don't know if the Rules allow me to be ironic, President. Mr. Martín Blanco, with a bit of irony, too, to attenuate these considerations, which coincide with Mr. Orobtig who have a point of cynicism, look, we didn't accept the later because we found him a little constitutionalist, you know? [[relays]] , at the expense of the words of the President of the General Council of the Judiciary and the Supreme Court the Dilluns to Barcelona, who said « justice is administered on behalf of those who symbolize the unity and permanence of our State, thus conjugating in the constitutional formula harmoniously the ideas of sovereignty and unity of our nation, that I do not know if this would come to be a circus to say one, large and free. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.148.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the voting on items 24 and 25 of the agenda, which correspond to the motions for substance this late. Yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.149.0	Yes, President. [[Widow's remorse.]] According to Article 87.1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.150.0	Please, a little silence, because I can't hear Mr. Martin Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.151.0	According to Article 87.1, for allusions by various groups, among others, Mrs Sabater, the CUP...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.152.0	Mr Martín Blanco, you know perfectly well that in the motions allusions to the speaker are not allusions, according to the article of the Rules, because they have to be directly questioned, they have to be said directly, and, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.153.0	They are direct, they are direct allusions, not to the group. These are direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.154.0	You were the one who was defending the young man. Therefore, this is why we agreed that allusions are only serious outside the motions, not when the next speaker is feeling the need for the rest of the Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.155.0	But... excuse me, Madam President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.156.0	That you have made use of your word and the rest of the Members refer to you. And, therefore, it is in this sense that allusions are not granted after the motion, because necessarily throughout the process of debate of this motion you could be praised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.157.0	Well, I don't think... I don't know if that's the criteria that always serves...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.158.0	This is the criteria we have established and so we will follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.159.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.160.0	We proceed, therefore, to the vote at the next sitting... [[Matías Alonso asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.161.0	President, just to make a call to the observance of the Rules, Rule 90, in the sense that Article 87.1 is very clear: when there is a reference, a direct allusion, as has been the case, not just a three-time one, with names and surnames to a speaker, this has the right to make the reply and the presidency of this Parliament recognize it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.162.0	Mr Matías Alonso, Article 87.1 begins with the President, when he considers and I have already explained the reasons for which the President does not, because we have established this function in this legislature and know perfectly well the rest of the Members. When a Member is at the Faristol he is involved in a Member, the rest of the Members must refer to his own words. Therefore, it is in this sense that the allusion is not granted. And therefore, as I have already explained twice, we do not have the word and we shall proceed to the vote. We vote for the motion following the question to the Government about the functioning of the university system... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You intervened, Mr. Martin Blanco, in this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You spoke to him. Therefore, as he intervened, he may have been greeted by the rest of the speakers. And, therefore, it is in this sense that we have said that when the speakers intervene and then they are met, it would not be possible to grant the return for their enjoyment. I can explain it again, but I won't. We shall proceed to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. I... you made use of your petition for the article, and I answered you and Mr. Matías Alonso. So, we've decided what we've applied and, so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, I've decided, I'm the one ordering and arbitrating the debates. Therefore, in this sense, I said that you do not have the word for 87.1 in this motion and that we proceed to the vote. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the functioning of the university system (continuation)]] [[302-00062/13]] We proceed to vote on the motion following the question to the Government about the functioning of the university system. Let's vote, first of all, points 1 and 9. The vote begins. Points 1 and 9 were not approved with 50 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 8 abstentions. We're voting points 2 and 8. The vote begins. Points 2 and 8 have not been approved with 17 votes in favour, 113 votes against. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected with 58 votes in favour and 72 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected with 50 votes in favour and 80 votes against. We're voting point number five now. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected with 7 votes in favour, 113 votes against and 10 abstentions. We're voting point number six now. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected with 17 votes in favour, 72 votes against and 41 abstentions. We're voting point number seven now. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected with 7 votes in favour, 79 votes against and 44 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the Catalan language of justice (continuation)]] [[302-00063/13]] We are now voting for the motion following the Government's inquiry into the Catalan language of justice. We first vote on points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were approved with 113 votes in favour, 11 against and 6 abstentions. We're voting point number three now. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved with 119 votes in favour and 11 votes against. We're voting point number four now. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved with 119 votes in favour and 11 votes against. And finally, we're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved with 80 votes in favour and 50 votes against. [[Greetings.]] [[He asked the Government about the compliment of the Supreme Court's judgment in the matter of language policy to the educational centres.]] [[300-00077/13]] Let us turn to the 15th item of the agenda, the question to the Government on the compliment of the Supreme Court's judgment in the matter of linguistic policy to the educational centres; presented for the Joint Group. It has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.163.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I, before I begin with this inquiry, want to thank all those parents who never gave up and who fought in defense of their children's educational rights. A titanic work of years, led by entities such as the Association for Tolerance, the Association for the Bilingual School and Citizen Impulse, which has finally culminated in a triumph. And, of course, I also want to remind myself today of Severo Bueno, who persisted to the end because he knew that he was defending what was right. Sometimes David wins Goliath and common sense and legality are imposed on imposition. So I want to tell you from here that you have been and that you continue to be a reference for all of us. Thank you so much for that work of so many years. [[Some applause.]] Well, Mr Gonzàlez, I want to talk today about what is happening in Catalonia with education. The Government has an obligation to guarantee – legal obligation, of course – teaching in Spanish as a normal vehicle language. Is he doing it? No, he's not. Right now the situation of Spanish in the classroom is this: zero_hours in childhood education, two_hours in primary and three in the ESO. If we look at high school, it doesn't improve: only two hours in high school, Mr Gonzàlez. But the thing goes beyond that: not only are not subjects taught in Spanish, but also 98,5_per_cent of the linguistic projects of the Catalan centres veto the use of Spanish in corridors, courtyards and dining rooms. 98,5_per_cent, Mr Cambray, practically all the Catalan centres. I'm not giving the names of that 1,5_per_cent, it's not going to be that tomorrow you people will be there to sanction them, or go Platform for Language, banner in hand. But this veto also extends to communication with families. Written notifications are sent only in Catalan. If the parents understand, well, and if not, so too. Language immersion, Mr Cambray, means exclusion. That's what they're getting. Faced with this widespread and repeated pattern of regulatory failure, a few brave parents dared to raise their voices and plant faces. You, for the record, completely ignored them by forcing them to go to court to be able to school their children in Spanish. Do you know what happened with these allegations? That they won them. And do you know what you were doing? To harass them and point out those, as happened in the case of Balaguer's family, in case other parents took an example and also dared to challenge them. Eighty families, Mr. Aragonès told us yesterday, denouncing them. And, look, I'm telling you, it's just as bad if there are eighty families as if there are four, and I'm convinced that if they're not more families it's precisely because they're afraid of them, because nobody likes to be signaled to them in their village, to be crushed, to be harassed on social networks as we've seen, or that their children may suffer reprisals at school, Mr. Cambray. These judicial proceedings that he spoke of have evolved to culminate in a judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that determines not only what is legal, but also what is common sense: that both languages, Spanish and Catalan, must be vehicles in schools. The Government appealed that judgment and the Supreme Court has confirmed that Spanish and Catalan must be vehicles in at least twenty-five per cent. He feels that you, Mr Cambray, have joyfully told us that you are not going to comply. That is, the lightness with which you proclaim that you are not going to respect judicial decisions or laws, which is truly worth studying. Then, when the consequences come, the tears will come, because we have already seen that in this Parliament. And don't say, Mr. Cambray, we haven't warned you. If you decide to dismiss the sentence, of course there will be consequences. We're going to dismantle some of the most famous mantras that you've repeated these days until you get sick of yourself and even get tired of us, because I imagine that's what you're going to answer me in your answer. Look, Catalonia is bilingual, despite who weighs it. Moreover, the Spanish language is the majority mother tongue and that is what you cannot stand. Another of the mantras: the immersion system does not generate social consensus of any kind. 64.4 of Catalan society is based on a trilingual system according to a GAD3 survey. And make sure that the polls are anonymous, obviously. But I tell you, between that sixty and four percent, do you know who's here? Catalonia's nationalist political elite takes their children to those schools that are trilingual – trilingual. Why? Why don't you take your children to school where others have to go? Why? Because you do not like linguistic immersion, because you know perfectly well that linguistic immersion is not the best educational system. Language immersion is deeply classy and you are deeply hypocritical, Mr. Counsellor. Mrs. Colau said so too, didn't she? : « Anyone who wants to study in Spanish will pay for it. Don't miss it. People's party. Do you want education in your official language? You pay for it. Another mantra: « Diving is a model of success. Well, no. No, it's not a success model. It's not even immersion. It is not immersion for the Catalan speaking part and it is tremendously discriminatory for the Spanish speaking part. So, I think, if it's so good, if it's so successful with the immersion model, how come other countries don't have it? How come there is no queue here, making queues of countries to copy this model? Well, the truth is that your model is an anomaly in Europe. Why? Because it is an obsolete model, it is an obsolete model and because it goes against the pedagogical criteria, which is another one of its mantras. You said to us these days: "This is not a percentage; this is a pedagogy. Well, let's talk about pedagogy. According to UNESCO, more than a thousand studies show that the mother tongue is a facilitator of learning. Serious studies – serious, Mr Cambray –, not those Fake sociolinguistic studies of Platform for Language that are not signed by any sociolinguistics, because, of course, no sociolinguistics want to form their signature there and end their academic prestige by signing studies that skip all ethical codes and codes of ethics, spying on children in the courtyards and teachers. I will also quote literally the words of the Director General of UNESCO. He said: "Over the world, forty per cent of people do not have access to education in the language they best speak or understand, which makes it difficult for them to learn as well as to have access to heritage and cultural expressions. And we continue with UNESCO, celebrations also in 2021. The theme of International Mother Language Day was to promote multilingualism for inclusion in society's education. Look, UNESCO believes that education based on the first language or mother tongue should start from the first years of schooling, as early childhood care and education are the foundation of learning. It is impossible to defend the wrong so-called linguistic immersion from the pedagogical point of view, because it goes against what serious studies say, what UNESCO says and what the Convention itself says about the rights of the child. And on top of that, Mr Cambray, you dare to speak of respect for students and teachers; you, who act against the statement of the child; you, who are forming committees of political commissioners to get into the classrooms and the courtyards of schools, even in the dining rooms and also in extra-curricular activities, to check that teachers and students always speak in Catalan. Look, that's not defending Catalan. That's directly stalking. It's harassment, Mr. Counselor. And then another one, talking about this. Some days the linguistic immersion is a model of success and other days say it is not fulfilled. You say that the whole educational community wants that bad so-called ‘linguistic immersion', but at the same time you also tell us that more than half of the teachers are addressing their students in Spanish and that that must be stopped. So, what are we left with? The whole educational community wants the model of linguistic immersion, but it turns out that half of the teachers do not go to students in Catalan? It's just that you don't understand, Mr. Cambray. In addition, the data was made public by you. He told us that only forty_y_seven_per_cent of teachers address their students in Catalan. It doesn't make any sense. But it is that, moreover, speaking of the educational community and of that great consensus that there is, it turns out that only twenty-one_per_cent of the students interact in Catalan. So, what are we left with? What are we left with, Mr. Cambray? Is it a model of success that everyone has or does it turn out that half of the teachers do not address the students in Catalan and twenty - one_per_cent is directed only in Catalan? Don't you see that this argument, Mr. Cambray, is watering everywhere, honestly? Really, what a strange consensus, everyone wants just what they don't do. I would also point out that if, after receiving all the education in Catalan, as you do with immersion, the students do not speak Catalan, because it is perhaps that their plan is not working. Maybe freedom turns out to be superior to that authoritarian drive you have. He also said that it was not a question of percentage. Well, well, let's not talk about percentages. Let's talk about subjects. It's one more subject, Mr. Cambray, that's it. That's what the sentence calls for. How bad, my mother! In hours: in primary is to move from two_hours a week to make five per week. Can anyone really believe that Catalan is at risk by doing only three_hours less than the time in that language? It's just, honestly, I don't know if they listen when they talk. To say that defending Catalan is to defend the country... well, look, what do you want me to say? Neither Catalonia is a country nor you defend Catalan; quite the contrary: you are doing him terrible damage. And I don't say it; they say it their own data, because it is that Catalan is losing speakers. You also tell us that you are studying Catalonia in Catalan. And I tell you that in Catalonia the school in Catalan, in Spanish, in Arabic, in English and in Catalan sign language. What happens, that for you there is only one language in Catalonia or, what is the same, for you there are only Catalan speakers. For me, all Catalans count and that is why they must be able to study freely and, above all – above all – on equal opportunities, Mr Cambray. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.164.0	The word now has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.165.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman Roldán... there. He didn't see her. Congresswoman Roldán, really all that you say is you think it's true? Answer... you think... I'm curious, huh? , at last. You think the one who just explained the answer to what happens to the 72,000 classrooms in our country? I will begin my intervention by commenting on the subject of the inquiry to which you have referred, because I believe that everyone here today, in this room, will already use us as a guide to see with what rigour you speak and how, after all your statements, there is always a trap. I will explain to you the issue of the inquiry that Mrs Roldán said. They show some data from a study by a company in Madrid to the institutions of the Catalan Civil Society, which show that the majority of students receive a trilingual teaching. But it's that, look, if we go to the font, actually what the question asked the families was whether I preferred a trilingual model or a monolingual model. And the result tells us that most families bet for the better. And, obviously, there are only a few new families that say only in Catalan, and there are also very few that say only in Castilian. But does he know what? It's just that if I asked myself, I would also say that I want an education with a trilingual model. And so much so! But it's that you start, as always, from a false premise, that ours, the Catalan education system, is a monolingual system. And that's fake – it's fake. In fact, there is no single language child in Catalonia. The language immersion model that the català has as its vehicle language ensures full knowledge both in català and in castle, and the learning of other languages. Therefore, it guarantees full bilingual competitions plus a third language. And we can do that, precisely, thanks to this vehiclery of the català. He also gave the subject of consensus. Do we have consent? And so much so! We have a consensus for forty years as a country, we have a consensus for the model of Catalan school. I'm on lockdown. And these statements that you said will continue to make them. And so much so! Because I believe them. Because I do climb classes in this country. The Catalan school model is a success model. And so much so! Now, we, from the Department of Education, have also recognized that, feeling a model of success, what we need to do now, after a few years of davalada in its application, is to go to action, put ourselves there and apply it. And, therefore, accompany – accompany – our educational centers so that they apply this model of Catalan school. You mentioned the subject of the sentence. We congratulate the legislation in force. We compliment all the legislation in force. We'll go along with what you say about Catalonia's education law and we'll go along with state legislation, with LOMLOE. And what they tell us, both the law of education in Catalonia and the LOMLOE, is that what we have to do, from the Catalan education system, is to ensure that all the students, when completing their compulsory stage at a quarter of ESO, have knowledge in Catalan and castle. And that, this solitaire of knowledge in català and castella, is what they tell us all academic results. Academic results tell us that in tests of basic skills that are developed from the Department of Education, the mean of the last two years in català is a 76.5 points over a hundred and in castle is 78 points over a hundred. And this is produced in a social context, in a country, in Catalonia, where the Catalan school talks more about two-hundred languages. And if you say to me, "Well, let's not go to basic skills because it's a proof from the Education Department. All right, you can go to PISA, you can go to selectivity. Let's see the results of selectivity: in the Spanish language assignment, the year 2020, Catalonia scored a middle note one tenth – one tenth – lower than the state average, but six tenths higher than it had achieved the previous year. And the difference has never been, between Catalonia and the Middle Ages, more than three tenths, for up or down, and Catalonia is, in 2020, with the same results or better than most monolingual autonomous communities. Therefore, always in politics, always in public management, we have to talk with data, we have to talk with indicators; we cannot talk by impressions. And less can we speak from impressions that don't fit reality. And I'm convinced that you know that what they say is lied – I'm not convinced. It's just that I can't believe that you've made statements here a few moments ago that I think they're true – I can't believe it. Congresswoman Roldán, the model educates Catalonia can't decide the courts. The pedagogy cannot be in the hands of the courts. Courts cannot decide how to teach and how to educate. And we are ahead... This feeling is the enesame attack on the linguistic model of our education system; a model that, as I said, is built with very broad bases and social, pedagogical and political consensus. And we've done it since 1983, which passed the law of linguistic normalization and all together as the country we decided to do something we're not very proud of: not to separate the student by reason of language. Do not separate anyone by reason of language, do not expel anyone or remove anyone. What we do is educate. What we do is educate our young people and our infants. Our model, I said, is based on the LEC; a LEC, I remember, more, that when you..., because you have this practice, you have this skill – this skill very little democracy – which is that when one thing they don't like, they take it to court. From the LEC, the Constitutional did not question the reference to the vehicle language of the Catalan language or the model of linguistic immersion. You could've done it, couldn't you? , as with other things, they make decisions from the disconnection, from the misadjustment that happens and the one that explains them. But, anyway, he didn't do it; in this case, he didn't do it – in this case, he didn't do it. Therefore, we are ahead of an interference more of the courts in competitions that do not approach them. We will follow the legislative mandates that the elected representatives of Parliament take and that they are the ones who have the legitimacy to legislate. In this Parliament, 30 years later, there has been a consensus on the roadworthiness of the Catalan language and the immersion system, and you can't even do that. As there can be no difference between the majority of those who perpetrated a snitch like Wert Law, the law of education with less political support and less social support. Then they didn't compromise their real intentions. They didn't want to guarantee learning, absolutely. They don't want to guarantee learning. They made it very clear that their goal was and it's still Spanish..., Spanish... – it's that I don't even get the word, imagine's', to Spanishyolite the infants. Finally, they came up with subsidies because the families attending school without their children in private schools in the castle. But look, no, school isn't even a space for political battle. School is a learning area. And, yes, the català is and continues to be the vehicle language. Congresswoman Roldán, the Catalan school model that makes it possible for a teacher who educates himself in Catalonia to go to León and quietly practice the profession. I'm telling you, because if you want to explain this to your president... because I don't know if you're talking about ignorance or you're just a teaser. Our Catalan school model has been and is a key tool for equal opportunities, equity and social cohesion for all students. In the past few years, we have seen how the Catalan model was politically attacked by political parties, and some created with the aim of attacking the Catalan school and launching a social divide that only fosters inequalities and differences between children. In fact, Mr. PP, the appearance of some of these parties took them away from you, because it took them out of some of the country's consensus that you had participated in until electoralism made it hard for you to prove that, in this language, you could also play hard and hard. And it was then when they stopped talking to the catalan in the intimacy and they wanted to Spanishize the Catalan infants. It doesn't look like they've worked too well. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.166.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.167.0	Yes, counselor, you asked me for rigor, data, indicators, I remind you that you submitted a survey on the use of Catalan in classrooms and you did not offer a single data on it. I'm asking you now, please, when you go back to your other shift, to tell us, for example, how many centers were built, what was the study method, huh? Since you ask for rigor and you ask for indicators, I ask you to give me the data on that survey that you made public. Let's get on with the data, too. You were talking about basic skills. Well tell me, for example, the level of approved English we have here in Catalonia, it's not going to be that we might have a level of English Catalan students and we don't know. I also challenge you to tell me this fact when I get out here. You also told me about selectivity and testing, etc. You know perfectly well that you cannot provide any homologable proof that shows the good level of Spanish, basically because it does not exist. And when you compare the different selectivity tests you already realize that they have absolutely nothing to do with it. So I ask you: are you trying to tell me that Catalan students, with only two hours of Spanish a week, have a better level than, for example, Burgos students, who are fully enrolled in Spanish? Are you telling me that, Mr. Cambray? Look, Castile and Leon pulls us out, in the TIMSS tests, thirty-four points in mathematics and thirty-one points in science, and you pretend that I believe you have a better level of Spanish, if you even win us in mathematics? You don't see, do you? Don't you see that you fall for mantras, because they can't offer any kind of data, and on top of that you have the defiance to speak to me of rigor, Mr. Cambray? I understand you have a piece of paper here today. But do you know what's going on? That we are talking about the right to education of children, which is one of the most sacred tasks the Administration has, and I'm telling you that maybe with others they hang their mantras, but with me, no. Look, you here the other day, yesterday, you told us it was the result of the dive. Look, no, I'm not, and I'm a few years younger than you. In any case, if it were, Mr Cambray, the mid-eighties immersion system has absolutely nothing to do with the monolingual imposition system of the nineties that you introduced, and neither does it have anything to do with that model that was requested in the eighties in Santa Coloma. And whenever you want, we'll go there and do the test, and we'll do a survey in Santa Coloma too, see what the parents want. Look, you've also told me about the evil Spanish courts, such as the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia, Mr. Cambray. And do you also know what makes that sentence so horrible to you? It shields the Catalan. Because, for example, if there was, I don't know, an electoral turnout here and we had a system or someone who wanted to establish a monolingual system only in Spanish, thanks to this sentence would be guaranteed at least twenty-five_per_cent of Catalan, which you don't do with Spanish. You have also told me that the current education system guarantees full bilingual competences. These days on social networks are running videos of Catalan speakers expressing themselves in Spanish, in order to try to reinforce the thesis of separatism that in the Catalan school one learns to speak Spanish. You yourself used this argument yesterday in the control session, today you repeated it again here. But the question is not going to learn to speak Spanish, the school is going to acquire another type of skills, it is going to acquire a cult record. To speak, better or worse, Mr Cambray, knows everyone – everyone. Throughout the history of mankind, most people have not gone to school and I assure you that they spoke one language or more of one language, without going to school. Because, I insist, the school is going to acquire a cult system. But, of course, with zero_hours in children, two in primary and three in the ESO, I doubt very much that you can acquire the necessary skills, and if you do, really, triple the salary to the Spanish teachers, who with two or three_hours a week get the same as those of Catalan with all hours a week. How can the same be achieved in two_hours than in twenty_hours? Counselor, explain to me, because maybe it's the most secret magic formula than Coca-Cola, honestly. I also find it absurd to say that without immersion we would not speak Catalan. I insist, in the rest of the world this system does not apply and people learn the language; in bilingual territories, two languages. I have also told you that immersion does not meet pedagogical criteria, and I have cited the Convention on the Rights of the Child and also many articles of UNESCO that speak precisely about the benefits of schooling in the mother tongue. But, moreover, if we talk about children with learning difficulties, the harm of not studying in their mother tongue is exacerbated, to the point that the European Parliament, in its report on fundamental rights, warns that linguistic immersion impairs the rights of students with disabilities. It's not a success model either. Why? Because it doesn't apply anywhere else in the world. Well, yes, in Greenland, and the results are also bad. Really, how can it be the best model of success and not interest the most prestigious schools around the world? It's just absurd. Social Cohesion? It has absolutely nothing to do with it, because the vast majority of the world's countries are multilingual and do not have immersion. And what is it, that there is no social cohesion there, Mr González? Do you not really realize that your arguments make water and that they are totally absurd? It's not linguistic immersion, it's linguistic imposition; there's no more – there's no more. And the obvious proof that this model is not successful and nobody wants it, I insist again, is that the separatist leaders who defend it so much in public take their children to the best private elite schools, where the educational system knows what it is? The trilingual. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.168.0	In the turn of the reply, the word "Education Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.169.0	It is obvious, Mrs Roldán, that we have very long positions; fortunately, we have very long positions. I'll try to answer some of the things you said, huh? I presented, with the Councillor of Culture, with the Garriga Nation, preliminary data from a report of the Higher Council of Evaluation, that this report, among other bounds, has that can extrapolate the data with the same questions in the year 2006, 2013 and 2020; 2021 – sorry –, 6, 13 and 21. And, therefore, through this report, we are able to compare, through the years, the linguistic behavior of the linguistic uses, in this case a quarter of ESO. When I made the presentation I explained it, huh? , the show..., it's engraved, huh? I can get him there if he wants to. I explained the show, I explained the indicators, how it worked. But it's that, besides, today, this late, there's a Catalan School Council in Santa Coloma. And in this School Council of Catalonia in Santa Coloma – as we have been with preliminary data, they have been doing all this work – today they present all the report with absolute transparency, as we do with all the other things; with absolute transparency and share all the information. Deia... she started an argument that even got me excited a little bit and everything, huh? , because I say: "It seems that I want to raise some pedagogical debate. But no, it's over fast. It seemed that I wanted to raise some pedagogical debate, and what I'm going to do now is bring the learning of languages to the educational and pedagogical reality of our educational centers. Look, the schools can't teach the same way they taught fifteen or twenty years ago, and this learning differs from the schools, with a learning meaning lasting competence, this learning by skills, meaning, based on knowledge, but also based on learning things, learning to do things, learning to learn to learn to live and learning to live, in the door that the dynamics in the classroom are different from what we had a few years ago. And, therefore, until we can get into the pedagogical debate of what vehicle language means, as the teacher addresses the infant, as the infants and their companions speak to each other. And, therefore, impose a twenty-i-five percent of the castle on 2021, with an educational transformation in our classrooms that came to stay, still less felt than ever. He never had it. The learning of languages, I say again, does not go of percentages, goes of pedagogy. But it's not what I'm saying, it's what all the pedagogical evidence says. Therefore, in a moment of educational transformation, where this learning is based not only on listening to what the master says, but on participating in, knowing how to do, working as a team, working in managing projects, working for projects, working for reasons, working for communities, all this new educational system still makes language learning much less felt. I'm done. I think there's another area here that you often forget and it's actually the hardest. It's the hardest part for me. It's the most worrying for me. And it's that they don't believe in teachers, they don't believe in our teachers, and they don't believe in our professionals, because if they believe... they're the ones who know how to do the work, they're the ones who from the educational centers of our country, from the more than five thousand educational centers, define their educational centers projects, and from these educational centers projects, define their linguistic projects. And they are these linguistic projects, depending on the background and depending on the reality, of the educational centers, of the shared leadership of the directions of our educational centers, that they are the ones who know the names and surnames of our students, it is often defined how they are to be educated and in what way, so that our infants each time are citizens with more critical feelings, with more ability to make the best decisions in their life and also, as long as they are, citizens with more freedom. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.170.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the application of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia establishing that at least twenty-five per cent of the classes of educational centres must be divided into castles]] [[300-00079/13]] Let's move on to the seventh item of the agenda, the question to the Government about the application of the judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that establishes that at least twenty-five percent of the classes of the educational centers are to be divided into castles, and that has been presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.171.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Cambray, with all personal respect, but how much nonsense we have to hear to justify how unjustifiable it is to eradicate the Castilian from Catalan education! Look, I'm going to ask you today, first of all, the first question I asked Mr Aragonès yesterday: is Spanish a foreign language for you in Catalonia? I'm telling you, because one of the mantras of Spanish-speaking nationalism is that Catalonia is a multilingual country. And you said it: "More than two hundred languages are spoken here in Catalonia. Catalonia's own language is Catalan and, yes, Spanish, English, Arabic and Urdu are also spoken. English, Arabic and Urdu, Mr Gonzàlez, are foreign languages for you, I suppose. And then, does the Spanishman deserve the same treatment in the classroom as they do? Because English often has more hours of teaching than Spanish. You claim that using Spanish in one more subject breaks social cohesion. We believe that what breaks social cohesion is that you can only study in Spanish, Catalan and English in private schools for a thousand euros a month and that the one who cannot pay for it has to swallow it with the monolingual teaching that you serve as a single dish. I believe, as a liberal, that the cohesive thing and what guarantees equality is that the public system guarantees adequate training in Spanish, Catalan and English without those who do not have the EUR 1 000 a month, which Mrs Colau seems so easy to pay for, have to resign themselves to the monolingual model of Catalan public education. And I ask you: why is the social cohesion of a bilingual society broken by having a bilingual education? Another of his arguments is that Spanish has 543_million speakers and Catalan is a minority language in danger. Hey, the Castilian, of those 543_million people there are four in Catalonia, which are their responsibility; 4_million speakers with the mother tongue in Castilian. Do not trample on the rights of the 4_million of those speakers who have as their mother tongue the Castilian and who is one more language within Catalonia, the majority, along with Catalan. These 4_million Catalans are under their responsibility, their education is under their responsibility, and do not make them pay for the power of the Spanishman in the world by preventing them from having the right enshrined in UNESCO to receive the first teaching in their language. I think you have the little political shame of saying yesterday to another Member here: "I have already understood it and studied in immersion. I don't know, as Education Advisor, what your concept of what you have to teach in a language. If you understand the, understanding it is very easy. Everyone who lives in Catalonia ends up understanding Spanish and Catalan. If we are talking about an academic and cult record, which should provide the school, then we probably have to rethink it. And I would ask you, that this is an inquiry: do you claim that a Catalan speaker, a Spanish family speaker, with basic studies in a monolingual school in Catalan, acquires the cult or academic record of the Castilian? Do you affirm that? Or does it seem to you that no one actually goes out in the rest of Spain with an academic cult record, but from..., we all go out of school with a record of cinema, street, YouTube? But the case is that you say: « But we have the same average quality of Spanish learning as in the rest of Spain. And it is a magical thing that here in Catalonia, that the eighty_per_cent of the subjects are given in Catalan, ten_per_cent in English and the other ten_per_cent in Spanish, we have the same level of knowledge of the Castilian when coming out of public education, that the bats, the extremians, the Riojas, the Andalusians, the Castilians, who have ninety_per_cent in Spanish and ten_per_cent in English. If we with that ten_per_cent learn the same as the others with a ninety_per_cent, you really do magic in Catalan schools, or miracle. I believe that there is no miracle or magic and that what is there is an unusual lie. And if not, prove it. And when you say..., and you refer to the tests of PISA or selectivity, do not cheat, that you know very well that those tests do not equate the seventeen autonomous communities nor measure the level between themselves, that each autonomous community does its own test. Tell me what proof, if it exists, it becomes identical for all communities, so that you can compare the level among all communities. Don't tell so many lies – don't tell them. We believe that Catalan is one of the Spanish languages, such as Basque or Galician, co-officials in their respective territories, as the Constitution says, and that Spanish is also one of the Catalan languages, because it is Catalan. The vast majority of us feel the two languages, sentimentally, as our own. But that, of course, is not the position of the Taliban of separatism, who live the presence of the Castilian in Catalonia as an anomaly, as a historical error, as a consequence of a military imposition, as the result of a linguistic colonization carried out by Franco with immigrants as involuntary instruments. You don't want Spanish in the classroom simply because you want independence, because you are Spanish-speaking and you don't want to have anything to do with Spain; it's that simple. The phrase « speaks the language of the empire, which was what the Spaniards, including the Catalans, said in this way, who said that they wanted a Spain without more languages than the Spanish, has its equivalence today in Catalonia with the phrase « to Catalonia, l'éscola en Català, which you do not tire of repeating. Another mantra of separatism is that Catalan is in danger of extinction, and it is a lie. The language has been in excellent health for many years; almost all Catalan-speaking families transmit the language to their children, and they use it in every normal way in all areas of life. But what bothers you is that there is another part of Catalans – most – that also transmits your mother tongue, the Castilian, to your children. Those four million Spaniards are the anomaly. You would like a monolingual country in which most of its inhabitants spoke the same language, which was Franco's dream over all of Spain. The real problem for a separatist is that he doesn't like Catalonia. Real Catalonia, current Catalonia, you don't like it. They also do not like that there is a Catalonia voting for Citizens, the PP or Vox – we had already been told here, by some President of Parliament, that Citizens and the PP were not people of Catalonia. To a Catalonia that votes for the PSC, on the other hand, we can give you a pass for good conduct and let you live here while you do not get too involved in politics, or while you do not challenge your nationalist demeanours, more exactly, and form part of these national pacts for the language that you are trying to pergegate. What you want is to remove the Spanish from the heart of Catalans because it is their way of moving them away sentimentally from the rest of their Spanish compatriots. What happens is that you see so much the plumer of the collective deception, with the mirage that you are now with the process, which has gone fatal to you, and so now what it is to give is another twist of nut with the Catalan theme, saying that it is in danger, to corner the Castilian even more and continue to ardent the most fanatics of his followers. I understand, Mr. Gonzàlez, that you, as Education Advisor, may believe that Catalonia is so submissive and so fully attached to the regime that you are to tolerate this, with directors, teachers, inspectors, public servants, officials or interims, afraid of suffering reprisals from their bosses if you do not faithfully comply with the guidelines of their letters and with parents who hold their children hostage in schools in order not to say nor to say anything, lest you end up accusing them, as in Mataró or Balaguer, in scams organized by Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, as happened, because we already know that you have an army of people mobilized in the networks and in the media to repeat that who questions the immersion wants to attack the Catalan, and another army of blowers, spies, stalkers, whistleblowers running bakeries, universities, primary assistance centers, watching whether the people dare to use the castellano. But, look, people are already seeing what you're going about, and while there was enthusiastic support from much of Catalonia in the year 83 with the law of linguistic normalization, no one is going to tolerate this new twist of nut that you are preparing against more than half the Catalans. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.172.0	The word now has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.173.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Carrizosa, listening to you sees me in the head as if you thought that the català we invented the independenceists. It's a thousand-year-old language, huh? It's been many years since the català existed. Catalonia was already talking about the català, we didn't make it up by the independenceists. What do we want? What do you want? Let's see. What do we want from the country's government? What do we want from the Department of Education? What I explained to you before: what we want is to apply the Catalan school model, which basically says – Catalonia's education law – that all young people at the end of the compulsory stage have the knowledge, they sunny up all the knowledge in both catal as well as in castle. And that's what's going on, even though you don't like them; that's what's going on in all the country's schools. It is obvious that in this chamber there are groups that have an electoral battle going on to see who is the most aggressive against the language – it seems that they compete among you. It's still going, in this camp battle, I suppose, to go and get a few votes. And so we have here two parties that have become unrelevant parliamentaryly, salivating before this new attack on Catalonia's educational linguistic system. And now they have advanced them to the right; their members of the ultra-right have made their flag of intolerance and relegated them to political intolerance. Miri, let's start with the principle. You don't have to make sure our students don't have a good level of castle coming out of the classroom – they don't have that. Nor is it a matter of violating any right because they're studying in a language they don't understand; that's not what they're worried about – that's not what they're worried about. In fact, of the two-hundred languages that are spoken to our educational system – not only two, as you have often argued – you are only concerned about the one that, curiously, is of the most spoken in the world. Let us speak clearly: you who want, who would want, who would like them and who will not allow them to pass, is to eradicate Catalan as a language to Catalan educational systems. What they want is this. And that, Mr. Carrizosa, do not allow it to pass. And this is, ever since you were born as you started the year 2006, your only and true reason to be – the only; you've only had this. It was for you an obsession. And it has proved, over the years, that they have no more political project than attacking the català. In these fifteen years they have mobilized a few families to ask for a bilingual teaching system for their children – eighty. To the Catalan education system, each course, more than 1,400,000 students. They have fought for a social conflict that does not exist in our streets. In fact, the representatives of the Central Board of Directors confirmed this: that the linguistic conflict does not exist in the educational centres. But there's one thing ahead of them. The advances, obviously, as they cannot be in any other way, that will not get together, we will not allow them to play with the future and the opportunities of the smallest, moguts only for their electoral calculations. Because if we do this, we'll deprive them of the right to learning and eliminate one of the great benefits of immersion. And one of the great benefits of immersion is this equal opportunity: equity and social cohesion. You are not entitled to study data on academic results, already from the Higher Evaluation Board, already from PISA, already from the selection tests. They're not worth the dice. The day you look at the data will no longer be you, because it is based on following statements by such a..., as I said, since 2006, to see how long it can last to make this type of policy. You say politics. So look, the reality will come to an end. The past course, the best note of selectivity was obtained by Imad Benhessou, an immigrant family student who studied in catalá seems to have not assumed any problem. Another proof that the education system works as an equalizer also has in our institutions, which have ceased to be spaces reserved for the elites. It has representational spaces as this chamber occupies women and men who have grown up and formed in the Catalan school model. And here I quote the example of MP Najat Driuech, who arrived at the new years of Morocco and has integrated in an exemplary way, with the Catalan language, into the society of the country. And now she's an elected representative of this chamber. And what did you also tell me about the group of families who arrived from Murcia to Santa Coloma de Gramenet in the eighties and decided – they decided – that they wanted their children to have the same opportunities as Catalan speakers and claimed the school in Catalan? Unlike his, ours is a project of respect, progress and coexistence. We don't ask the people we see. We ask where they want to go and if they want us to do the folded path. We don't have a linguistic problem in this country. There is no linguistic problem in the classrooms of our country. We don't rank. Yesterday I don't know which group of this gang in the chamber – I don't know which group – classified people according to which language he speaks. We don't rank anyone. We don't label anyone because of the language they speak. We are here to defend social cohesion, and we do so with a model endorsed with a political and social consensus. I'm asking you a serious question. Mr. Carrizosa, about five thousand educational centers in the country, have you visited any of them? Did you climb any educational centers? Did you get into any classrooms? Can you look me in the face and say that, having entered some classroom in our country, is there a child or a young person who is not well cared for according to the language I speak? Who if it hurts the father is not perfectly cared for, as any child, for the fact that you speak Catalan or speak Castilian? Can you look at me and say that you really know some classroom with some child or some young person who hasn't been educated– "educated, have I had the word "educated" served – and accompanied in your growing process, regardless of the language you speak? It's that he won't find it – he won't find it. Leave our classrooms alone, leave our families alone and leave our teachers alone. There's enough, lords of Ciutadans – there's enough. We have chosen this model to allow all citizens, regardless of their social or geographical origin, to have the opportunity to learn well the language of the country, the català. We have a proper language and we have two official languages: the català and the castle. It's so obvious, I wouldn't need to or say it. We still have a broad consensus today on the vehiclearity of català to the education system. Eighty-five percent of the deputies, two or three weeks ago, voted in favour of a national language pact. I'd say... I'd say a lot of things, but I don't think I'm listening to them either, do I? 'Cause I don't know what it's like to... it's that before I told you, huh? I think they believe their own lies. Vagina to a classroom – Vagina to a classroom – Vagina to an educational center. Do it, "really. I would say that, Mr Carrizosa, they are about to disappear politically. And this shows that we are not able to make any political decision, we are not able to reach any consensus with anyone to carry out a country policy, a concrete policy that can benefit the lives of our citizens – of our citizens..., have I said citizens? The fact that you haven't been able to do it in 15 years has made you... irremovably disappear. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.174.0	In the turn of the line, has the word Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.175.0	Counselor, you are very interested in becoming Citizens, and in that you have spent much of your speech, but you have not answered any of the questions I have asked you – none of them. And this is a question to the government. You asked me questions, in turn. "You really don't care about the Castilian, the level of the Castilian that throbs. Hey, is this telling me, that I'm the father of three older boys, that I've taken them to school? Are you telling me if I was worried about my children and their level? [[Some applause.]] You don't worry... I don't know if you have kids. Would you not be concerned about how Catalan your children speak and how they have assimilated it, and Spanish? I, the Castilian, suppose it would make you even funny if you spoke it wrong, but the Catalan will want you to speak it right, won't he? [[Some applause.]] And another thing: already the story of the social elevator and the social cohesion with which it seems that we have to screw both the Spanish speaking children so that they learn Catalan well because they are so dumb that, either we put eighty_per_cent in their veins or they don't learn. Listen, I don't know, maybe Catalans, Catalan speakers, so, maybe you consider them learning faster, or that... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And I'll tell you something else, too. She cited you as an example to MP Najat. I congratulate you Najat, because you are integrated thanks to the fact that you are in Republican Left. If you were in Ciutadans, they'd tell you you're a misfit. [[Some applause.]] But no, you've chosen well, and they welcome you into their house very gracefully. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Look, you have destroyed the broad consensus of 83 on linguistic normalization, which provided for a regime of linguistic conjunction. Having achieved that consensus, you broke the consensus first on the return to democracy. There was a letter from Tarradellas to La Vanguardia in 81, which warned of the claim of nationalism to establish a white dictatorship and to do with the Castilian the same thing that Franco did with the Catalan. Don't be so shocked that I tell you now, Tarradellas warned you in '81. And UNESCO recommends that the first teaching be in the mother tongue. Mr. Trias Fargas, from Convergence, said in the 1980s that stealing that right from children is a crime, and it is clear that you do not listen to either UNESCO or Trias Fargas or Tarradellas. And you prevent, with your interested lies, a genuine public debate of quality, rational, on the subject. You have perverse motives for defending monolingualism, basically eradicating what smells like Spain, presenting Spanish speakers as having an improper language or worse social status than Catalan. We have positive reasons for defending bilingualism: that what is normal in the classroom is what is normal in society; that the right of all Catalans is respected without first- and second-class citizens, and also to guarantee the competence of all Catalans in both official languages. Know, Mr Gonzàlez, that we go beyond demanding compliance with the judgment of the High Court of Justice which has been endorsed by the Supreme Court. We go beyond even demanding that you cease in your caciquism to accuse officials by letter to violate the laws, again putting public servants between the sword and the wall, as much experience they have from the separatist parties. We go further, because we demand the end of the system of linguistic repression and its change into an educational system which, by guaranteeing, of course, the full knowledge and use of Catalan in the classrooms, also guarantees the proper and sufficient use of Spanish under the same conditions in schools, universities, institutions and the rest of society. And this is something we don't have to beg for or ask for you to make us a graceful concession. This is something that derives from fundamental rights and public freedoms, from article 3 of the Constitution, in which you are obliged to respect the common language of all Spaniards, not to eradicate that of teaching as you are doing. And therefore, Mr Gonzalez-Cambray, I say to him: "Do what is good, because we are good at asking you. If you do not do so well, we will, of course, go to the courts to give us our right. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.176.0	There's the word, in the reply tower, the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.177.0	Thank you, President. I gave it to my first intervention: his party was born in 2006 with a single point to his proposal, which was precisely to create linguistic conflict in Catalonia, to create linguistic conflict in the classrooms and to present himself as saviors of a conflict that had been invented. Keep up with this dynamic fifteen years later – fifteen years later keep up with this dynamic. And now they're in dissolving. After seventeen years they're in dissolving. When you look back, aren't you ashamed of them having brought absolutely nothing to society? It's just they didn't bring anything. Aren't you ashamed of them? They have been unable to make any constructive proposals. They have been unable to add the necessary supports to generate no agreement. They are residual to Catalonia and the State. In sixteen years they have been characterized only to generate conflict and confrontations where they have gone. They're teachers of provocation, and that's what you did today with this inquiry. Honestly – honestly – don't you embarrass them? Can you sleep calmly knowing that your step in politics will only have served to try to generate conflicts? Mr. Carrizosa, yesterday you had little shame – and this is no shame – of comparing the Catalan educational model with the Franco dictatorship. I understand – I understand, why – that I compete electorally with the heretics of the dictatorship; I understand that this is its reality, sad political reality. But there are red lines that we won't allow them to cross. The language model is the result of parliamentary accords, democratic accords, democracy – democratic accords – agreements, as you have never, in seven years, been able to push forward. That you have the bar, the cynicism, to compare a model that is based on democratic agreements with a dictatorship of much of what you are; a dictatorship, certainly, that you have never refused to condemn. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.178.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[He asked the Government about the school model and linguistic immersion]] [[300-00080/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the school model and the linguistic immersion; presented for the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle to Win. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.179.0	Thank you, President. Well, others, counselor, let's get this over with. Well, let's talk first about the situation of the Catalan language in our country and its use in the schools, as well as the linguistic model for which we choose and which we understand that today, fortunately, is the object of a greater consensus in our country. At this moment the hegemonic language to the Catalan Countries is, in doubt sense, the Castilian. The data on the use of catalá in Catalonia confirm this and make it clear. Indeed, only 32,4_percent of the total population of the Catalan Countries serves the Catalan language as usual, and eight_of_each_of_the Catalan speakers leave the Catalan language when the speaker speaks in the castle, even more so than a noranta_per_cent of the Catalonian population fully understands the Catalan language and could speak it habitually. The presence and use of català in economic activity, in communication media, in cinema, to put just a few examples, and the data on its social use show that it is about a language in retroces and very far from being fully normalized. School is not an exception in this trend, and so it shows various data and studies. And, effectively, fifteen years ago, we know that fifty-six per cent of ESO-quarters students are heading to the Catalan faculty and now less than forty per cent. A situation that lowers even more when students interact with each other. 2006 always serves or almost always serves the català a sixty-per-cent of the students and now it's a little more than twenty-per-cent than they do. And teachers are also making use of the català less than before; they are always making use of it to direct a sixty-four percent to the students, while now, at these times, they are less than half. These data clearly indicate that the use of catalá vehicle is in retrogress in the teaching and that its social use tends to be reduced in the school centres, and that we are still on the verge of a real deployment and to smooth out the objectives of linguistic immersion. And what is our linguistic model, the linguistic proposal we make for the country? Our linguistic model is that of Catalan as a fully normalized language and, therefore, with the same legal and material support and with the same encouragement measures as the national languages of the countries around us; with a fundamental objective: that Catalan language, in the framework of a multilingual and multicultural society, becomes a common and shared language, a language of communication and normalised social use between the various linguistic communities of our society and their speakers. And yet with another objective: that the Catalan language is a language of cohesion and coexistence for all. And, as a result, effectively avoid – and this is very important – the division of our society between two linguistic communities, such as the right and the extreme right, claim with their political initiatives, such as, for example, those that engage against linguistic immersion. And school, counselor, actually, can't be an exception to what it does to this model and these objects; years on the contrary, it's not a phone box and one of the essential areas of action. The Catalan school must guarantee the multilingual competence of all the students in Catalan, in castle and in a third language, and must also guarantee that the Catalan language becomes common and shared throughout the educational community, once its learning follows a right guaranteed for all the students. Given the situation of backwardness in the social and school use of the Catalan language and its regression as in the language used in teaching, linguistic immersion is the best model, the best methodology to smooth these reptes and objectives. Attacks on linguistic immersion and language polarization on the part of the right, the extreme right and some institutions and institutions of the State, aim to deepen the limits to the full normalization of the catalá, promote the linguistic hegemony of the castle and promote uniformity. But also – and this is very hard, this is especially hard – they have as their goal to break the school community for language reasons. In the face of these attacks, which, in the end, will probably worsen, such a solid and firm response as amplifies, a response from a country that strengthens the great historical consensus on linguistic immersion; that consensus that made it possible for the immersion to make its first passes to Santa Coloma de Gramenet and that added very plural and diverse social sectors, regardless of its origins, with the common denominator of the defense of the Catalan language as a common good, with a right of collection and a democratic tool of coexistence and cohesion. Now this consensus is weakening, at the political level, for the change of position of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, not only for its defense of the application of the feeling of the TSJC, but for the fact that it has been asking questions about linguistic immersion for some time now. An ideological gir, an complicity in uniformity, electoral cliques... In any case, a political gir that we consider unfettered and irresponsible, not only because it does not help in the normalization of the catalá, but because it contributes to the fragmentation of the school community and, therefore, of society, depending on the language. We continue to move the PSC back to the consensus for linguistic immersion and join the political and social defence of Catalan language in all areas, including school, as common and shared language, as normal language. And, counselor, we can't afford any doubt or fever in government parties or in the Department of Education. We cannot afford either the doubts, the fevers or the shortcomings that have led us, in the later years, to the non-application of immersion and the regression of the català as the vehicle language. No argument can support the failure of immersion, nor the autonomy of centres nor the diversity of linguistic projects. The consequence of this policy has been that the Catalan language is a vehicle in the schools of Catalan speaking circles and that it is declining in the centers where the castle is dominant, thus consolidating the tendency to fragmentation in two school communities depending on the language. It must also be borne in mind that in secondary and university, without active immersion policies, the presence and use of català tend even more to minority. The result of this regressive dynamic for what it does to the use of català in the school environment, the current situation is that in many centers the teaching in castle is already equal to or higher than twenty-i-five_per_cent. Precisely in those centers where immersion should be a more consolidated reality. Also, we have to find that the linguistic conflict in the school communities is non-existent or irrelevant and is nothing more than a political invention of the Drets, now also judicialized by the regime in its desire to break our society. The Supreme Court has confirmed the feeling of the TSJC that it would force the twenty-i-five percent of the teaching to be implemented in all the schools of Catalonia. A judgment against the majority consensus in our country and an interference in the competences of the Generality in educational and linguistic matters. A new imposition of the courts, which intend to continue dictating politics in our country, and a new episode of judicialization of politics. Who was the position of the Education Department before the confirmation of this sentence? A letter from the counselor to the schools indicating that they should not change their linguistic projects. That is to say, those who already apply the twenty-five percent teaching in the castle and those who apply higher percentages can continue to do so, as certainly those who do not yet apply it. Therefore, autonomy of linguistic centres and projects, discharges on the one hand responsibility in the directions and the cloisters, and compas d'espera, at the mercy of the mercy of the PSOE and the Spanish Government, in order to be able to escape temporarily from the execution of the sentence. We appreciate and value this answer and know that you have and will have us at your side before threats and repression. It is, too, an insufficient and misleading answer, which, paradoxically, in leaving the application of the linguistic model of our teaching in the hands of the intrusives of each school, can end up, by the way of the facts, making good the feeling, even as a lesser evil. And it is a response that ultimately puts us in the hands of the PSOE and the Spanish Government on an essential country issue. A country policy linked to a great consensus, such as language policy in education, requires a stronger response and action. For us, the appropriate and necessary response is the effective application of linguistic immersion in all schools in Catalonia. So, what is the most serious response to this new aggression on the part of the State to our language, to our culture and to our educational model, to our cohesion, to our sovereignty? Introduce linguistic immersion in all schools in the country. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.180.0	Thank you, Congressman. The word now has the education advisor, Mr. Josep Gonzàlez-Cambray.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.181.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Riera, in the first place, thank you all. After the previous interventions, it is necessary to return to the debate of realism and rigour. As he did in his intervention, I will try to answer him, first, by drawing the situation of the language, and then we will talk about the feeling. So, I'll follow a little, too, his order. You expressed the concern of your group before the current situation of our language and the backwardness in your social use, as confirmed by the data – before I mentioned it. As the Education Advisor, obviously, as it cannot be in any other way, I am also concerned. I share that concern, and that's why we've moved on. That's why we started to deploy an impulse board and promote Catalan language. The linguistic immersion model implemented in its day with a broad consensus of the Catalan society has been instrumental in social cohesion and language normalization, but it is also true that, after these fifteen years, the last thirty years, but above all the last fifteen years, there has been a flood of the social use of català in all fields and also in education – in all areas, but also in education. And, therefore, we share..., I agree that it is time to address the situation with firmness, conviction and realism. And here there is no doubt, Mr Riera, that there will be no fever or doubt. We assume, therefore – we assume – that it has not been done enough for the past fifteen years, and this setback, which does not affect, as only the educational sphere said, only the whole society. And that's why this government has a clear commitment, through the national language pact, to take action, to promote and promote the use of català. These data – you mentioned – are not good, they are not that we like them. And as it is not the data that we would like to have, what we do is to deploy an impulse board and promote the Catalan language, taking into account – very important – that the school is part of the solution – the school is part of the solution – it is one of the main communication vessels that balances the use of the language and is influenced by many other areas, also, such as communication media, audiovisual or social media. Therefore, we understand that from school we play a very important role, but it is not the only one, in the normalization of the social use of Catalan language. And, therefore, I would say, before we do that, from the Department of Education we are pushing this impulse program, a program that will reach all the educational centers in the country in four years. In four years, we will review the projects and update them, they will accompany the time to deploy the linguistic projects to all the educational centers in the country. A program that has, basically, as the main objectives promote the commitment and collaboration of the educational community in the best of the linguistic use of catalá in all contexts– not only in lectual time, but also in all contexts. Another of the main objectives is to increase this use of Catalan in educational centres and to facilitate the learning of Catalan language in the educational context for all members of the community. And more specifically, each centre will have to identify, through an impulse group, what is its real linguistic situation, from already established indicators. And, from this observation, we will develop contextualized – very important – training actions according to the reality, guided by the reality of each of the educational centers, in order to sensitize the educational community about the import of the communicative uses, to become aware of its impact, to increase the use of Catalan language and to enhance the role of the teacher as a linguistic model. In four years, we will do this to more than three thousand schools and institutes in the country. And we will do so, I say, with the creation of driving groups, formed by teachers of the different levels of education, members of the management, the educational inspection, the advisory team in language, interculturality and social cohesion, that apply these established indicators that allow each centre to know its reality. I'd give it to you before, wouldn't I? I repeat: the Catalan school model is a model of success, but we have to apply it. We agree: we have to apply it. From this information, the teacher teams will form – very important: a formation. In these four years, all the teachers of the Catalan education system, the 120,000 teachers and teachers, carry out training actions; training actions to accompany them in this awareness and how to act in the classroom. It will not be training, obviously, in Catalan language, because our professionals already know the language, but it will be training to give them tools in order to increase this use, not change the language and many other elements. In parallel, we continue to advance to have the maximum possible information and, therefore, in parallel, what we will also do, within the framework of the National Linguistic Pact, is, through a university research group, to make a diagnosis of the linguistic reality of the education system at different stages. The first data we have are these that we presented to the Senior Evaluation Board and correspond to a quarter of ESO. I, therefore, must continue to advance data. In fact, today there is a novelty, and it is that – before, too – Santa Coloma, the School Board of Catalonia with the Higher Evaluation Board present the report. The report is presented today. I came forward with some preliminary data, because they were already very consistent, but today the report is presented. And from this presentation of the report, what I've done as a counselor is to ask the Higher Assessment Board that this report and this task is also done, from this school year, at the sixth grade. Therefore, taking advantage of the fact that the primary system is evidence of basic skills, we will also make this report. We'll start making a report to sis to see how the language uses are in this primary course. And, besides, we've also commissioned the Senior Evaluation Board, evaluation, evaluation. All public policies must be evaluable. We plan them, put them in practice, land them and then we have to be able to evaluate them, improve them and standardize them and scale them. And, therefore, the Higher Evaluation Board has also rejected the task of evaluating this Catalan language promotion and impulse plan that I have just transferred. Therefore, this serious, a little, the first part to which ugly reference. We agree, we agree. We need to get down to it, we need to move forward with firmness, conviction and realism, and we need to increase the use of català at our educational centres. And now we're ahead of the sentence. Before the sentence... here's what we find is that we're in front of one more attack. I did what I did next, knowing the feeling... we did different actions from the government. One of the first actions was to send a communication to the educational centres. And in this communication, what we were expressing at the educational centers is... we're conveying the utmost peace of mind to them. We don't give them any responsibility – no responsibility. What we give them is that they keep doing the work they know how to do. I, therefore, this communication to the educational centres. In addition, last week I also gathered to – now technologies allow it to be done – YouTube streaming with more than three_ thousand educational centers, where we also shared the situation and moved them as it was..., they moved the feeling there and how we moved them to continue doing the work they know how to do, which is to educate our infants. With President Aragones and Vice President, Councillor Garriga and Councillor Geis we also met with Somescola, with part of the fifty-four entities of Somescola and many other entities and representatives of the educational community. And I also called, as a counselor, the parliamentary groups that have given support to the model of linguistic immersion, at the length of the last few years. The summit of Somescola to which we refer is repeated, with the president and vice president, on the 16th of December. Therefore, it is obvious, as it cannot be otherwise, that we are at the side of our professionals. We don't pass them any type of responsibility, no type of pressure, it can't be any other way. We accompany them and they have all the support and support of the Department of Education. So, I finish, a little, to try..., faig, a little, a summary. We don't like the situation in which we find ourselves doing the social uses of the catalá and, therefore, we get to work and we get to deploy a plan; let's go to action. And, for what he does to the sentence, the most support and support we have at our educational centers. For what she does to the country's linguistic policy – Councilwoman Garriga said in some interventions – this government starts a new phase of linguistic policy, and at this new stage, education – it is obvious – is part of the solution. And, therefore, from the Department of Education we will also put all our energies in order to further increase the use of català at our educational centres. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.182.0	Then, has the word, in the turn of reply, the deputy Mr Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.183.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, on the line you've already raised and complementing it, effectively, we asked ourselves before what is the most serious response to this new aggression on the part of the State to our language and to our educational model. And our answer has been clear, I understand that it coincides with what you have proposed: to implement linguistic immersion in all the schools in the country and to make the most of all the necessary resources and consensus. And to do so, for us, like at least five things, they also reinforce and complement the proposals that you have already made. In the first place, bet clearly and publicly for immersion in all the territories and schools of the country. Two, guarantee the faculty and the management teams of the centres all the necessary legal and political guarantees and all the necessary support so that they feel fully secure and protected at the time of applying and defending the vehicle use of the Catalan language and immersion, and before attacks, interference in the political choices and instrumentalization of the language coming from the right and the extreme right. Three, to develop educational and cultural programs of territories, in turn, that put into value the Catalan language as a common good and as a tool of coexistence and cohesion. Four, equip the schools with the necessary teaching resources and materials to be able to apply the linguistic immersion properly. And five, build a climate of mobilization and social hegemony in favor of linguistic immersion that protects the schools of engineering on the linguistic model on the part of the right and the extreme right and that cohesions the school communities and the educational community around the immersion. All these initiatives and actions are necessary so that this feeling is not finally applied. And it will not have to be applied if it encounters an educational model that relies on the support of a broad consensus of the country, that enjoys hegemony, social mobilization to make it effective and the consequent intervention of the Generality. And all this, in the march – I remember it and I remember it – of a legislature that came about with the proposal to defend the sovereignty of our country and its institutions, before the reactionary interference against those rights that are subject to broad consensus in our country. Counselor, they mark us the way forward: the struggle of the teachers and the educational community against the Bauzá decree on trilingualism generated such a degree of mobilization, inclusive to the vague, and built such a hegemony, that it made the application of the Bauzá decree impossible. Collective disobedience before attacks on our language, our culture and our sovereignty. In defense of the country's great consensus, counselor, the conflict with the State and, if necessary, disobedience are, sometimes, inescapable, inevitable. And immersion is one of those great consensuses. Immersed her is not touched. The great mobilization of the 18th of December, convened for Somescola, will be a first massive social response before the feeling against the català to the school. In more caldran, until the maximum that the Catalan school does not touch. We are going to build this hegemony and win it too this confrontation with the State in defense of our collective rights. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.184.0	And finally, the word has the education counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.185.0	Congressman Riera, you had five points. The comment quickly and then I'll link it up with... I think it's the most important aspect or one of the most important aspects of this later intervention, which he spoke of consensus. For what he does at five points. You were talking about the immersion model, I'd say Catalan school model. We will continue to apply, obviously, the model of Catalan school in which each educational centre makes its own educational centre project; here it makes a linguistic project according to the reality of its student. And we will obviously continue to explain it this way. Professional guarantees to the cent_per_cent there are, cannot be in any other way. Guarantees to the 100 percent of our professionals, that they are calm and that they continue to do the work they know how to do, that it is to educate our infants and our young people. Educational and cultural programs, obviously, and as long as they do. The topic of teaching resources and materials; for this we have also deployed a plan. This plan is obviously accompanied by resources for its deployment. And then you also called for..., the cry for a climate of mobilization. This atmosphere of mobilization is also connected to the consensus, huh? There are many lives of mobilization. I, today, like we're in Parliament, will connect with the consensus. Because I think that at these times I can make clear which are the consensus we share as a society, and that of school language is not one. Language-to-school is one of these country-priority consensuses; consensuses that can be preserved and where we hope to be able to count on all those who have been there since the beginning. We're convinced that we're counting on everyone who's ever been there since the beginning. It's a matter of country, it's our future as a society, and here there's no use for electoral or party politics. It's not worth the short look. The judicialization of language and politics in general is not a good way to get there. Unfortunately, we haven't had any evidence in the past few years. But we cannot allow judges to enter classrooms to set educational policies that do not correspond to them. Education is not a question of percentages – it is not. And beyond that, languages cannot be an external imposition, they must give answers to our young people and our infants to every one of our five thousand educational centres. And there must be an answer so as to ensure, as we have been sharing, that learning in catalá, castella and other languages is sunny. MPs, MPs, I place them, therefore, again, to find us in the consensus that must allow us to grow and advance as society. The consensus that no one is alienating Catalonia and that the school guarantees the same opportunities for everyone. I make this call as a Counsellor of Education to parliamentary groups that at the time created consensus from the differences. The current language model of the education system is not one of the widest consensus that this chamber has ever had. It is necessary to make this common front in defense of the model of Catalan school that we have built folded. From the discrepancies that we have between different political groups, that we preserve the consensus around immersion and català as the language to drive to school. That doesn't go with games, that doesn't go with percentages. That's culture, that's education. We're talking about kids and babies. It's going to guarantee equal opportunities. We play the future, and we play the future of our infants. Let's see where we're going, we're going to have the future. The school in Catalonia in Catalan. Faced with threats, judicial interference and attacks on their own language, this week, that we are commemorating the birth of the poet Joan Oliver, we note that, so many years later, his words are of all force: "We are still in the trench and our weapon are the words. The català in the school is not touched. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-12-02-1903.186.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. And raise the session. Thank you.
