ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.1.0	Good morning. Let's start the Plea. [[Condemnation demonstration of homophobic violence]] But before the session begins, and they stop from the intolerable LGTB attacks that have occurred in the last few days, I would like to show my most absolute condemnation before these facts, which they do not have, they have no head in our society. Remember that on June 1st, this chamber approved, with the support of all parliamentary groups less than one, a statement of rebuttal of the LGBTB attacks that had occurred the previous week. It's all been a month; a month, from those attacks. And with the violent episodes that we have experienced, according to the Observers against Homophobia, since the beginning of 2021, one hundred and thirty incidents of this kind have already been recorded. We are still aware of the difficult reality behind these data, the patience behind these hundred and thirty cases. He asks us all, the whole society, but especially us, as elected representatives that we are from the city. We remain aware of our paper, our understanding, our public views expressed, because they cannot have consequences like these. Let us commit ourselves to doing everything in our hands to reverse this saving and inhuman tendency and that no one else should be the victim of attacks, threats or oppression of any kind. And, therefore, no one has to have to be who he is and esteem him as he is and who he is. May we all live and cherish freedom. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] Also in conformity with the motion 111/XII of the Catalan Parliament on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, I inform you that according to the data of the International Organization of Migration, 898 people who have lost their lives in the Mediterranean have also been counted since the beginning of 2021. And before starting with the order of the day, I remember that the list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's file. And according to Article 164 of the Rules, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first item of the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Inquiries to the Government on airport infrastructure (postponed)]] [[300-00018/13]] Thus, I would like to remind you that the Joint Group, in accordance with the Government and in accordance with Article 160.6 of the Rules of Procedure, has requested that its inquiry into airport infrastructure, item 6 of the order of the day of this plenary, not be substantiated in this plenary session. And, therefore, this inquiry would be adjourned for the next session. I would also like to say to you that, in accordance with the agreement of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen on the celebration in reduced format, even though the plenary sessions are still taking place, at the same time as the current circumstances of the pandemic for the covid, sixty-five Members have delegated their vote for today. So let's move on to the first point of the order of the day, which are the oral questions. Also in this aside I ask the admonition that the Government has requested, a few informed all the parliamentary groups, that the three questions addressed to the Councillor of Health may be substantiated at the end of this session of oral questions to the Government. And, as all groups have demonstrated their compliance with this change, if there is no objection, the questions that correspond to numbers 6, 12 and 5 will be substantiated at the end, following that same order. So, let's start with the questions to the government. [[Ask the Government about the deployment of Law 19/2020, equal treatment and non-discrimination]] [[310-00060/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the non-deployment of Law 19/2020, equal treatment and non-discrimination. The question is posed by Mrs Najat Driuech, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. A few months ago, in this hemisphere I myself posed as an example of a person who has suffered discrimination. And all the time, I've been painting. In fact, I posed myself as the example of the exhibition live that Catalan society is diverse and inclusive, but that there are still many discriminations that we need to combat. We are many people who live discrimination because of the simple fact of being like us and we don't want our daughters and children to suffer or the half of what we have to suffer from. For this reason, the last parliamentary term the Parliament of Catalonia reinforced the diversity adopted unanimously and, therefore, with the political consensus of all groups in the chamber, the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination. Now, unfortunately, this consensus in this Parliament would not be possible. This law, the subject of today's question, has experienced a long process until its culmination, with a high participation of the sector and of the citizenry. And now, it allows us to equip ourselves with instruments of prevention, detection, approach and implementation of public policies against those behaviors that, without running into criminal law, are discriminatory. As you know, the fight against discrimination is a fight in defense of the fundamental rights of all citizens. And that, therefore, is a useful tool to protect all the diversity of our country; to protect it from practices discrimination by reason of origin, sex or identity of gender, age, ideology, ethnic origin, language, religious convictions, social condition, disability, state of health, aspect or any other reason. The objective is clear: that no discrimination is allowed. From our parliamentary group, we had a clear, pioneering and cross-cutting bet to strengthen the defence of human rights in Catalonia and to advance in the prevention and eradication of discrimination. A law that affects all sectors of the citizenry. As a result, a law claimed, expected and much needed. For all this, from the Republican Left Parliamentary Group we would like to know who the actions of the Equality and Feminisms Council are in accordance with the actual deployment of Law 19/2020, of equal treatment and non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.3.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.4.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. The Government assumes the deployment of equal laws in all its power. And, first of all, the very creation of the council is not an example, it is not a clear exponent. We have a secretary of equality, who has between her functions to plan the strategy of equal treatment and non-discrimination. And it will do, mainly, from three general directions that they have..., that their name is a very clear display of intentions as well: the Directorate General for the Promotion and Defence of Human Rights, the Directorate General for Public Policies LGTBI+ and the Directorate General for Migration, Refugees and Anti-Racism. Secondly, we would like to appoint the person who is the holder of the Protection and Promotion Body of the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination, who provides for the law. And we can anticipate that the head of this body will be a woman of one of the most discriminating collections in history. Thus, we will begin to draft, in short, the regulation decree of the body, in order to establish the structure, the functioning, the coordination with the Directorate General for the Promotion and Defence of Human Rights, and we will also select the network of entities and expert persons who will provide advice or intervene in the investigation and punishment procedures that follow from this body. In the third place, we have a draft of the sanctioning regulation of the Law 19/2020, which deploys the sanctioning regulation provided for in the fourth additional provision of the Law 11/2014, of LGBTBI rights and to eradicate LGBTBIphobia. That is to say, the sanctioning regulation of Law 11/2014 is the regulation of the 11/2019, which will obviously maintain the specificity LGTBI. And we remind all parliamentary groups that it is not possible to treat it as an administrative offence where it is an assault or a hate crime. Therefore, avoid confusion between instruments. In fourth place, the Government has begun an interdepartmental work between Igualtat, Interior and Justicia, which includes the design of an integral intervention model before the hate crimes. All hate crimes. The extension of the service paradigm of the victim's offices in the framework of the novelties introduced by Law 19/20, the development of campaigns to address the sub-denomination of hate crimes and the provision of training on equal treatment and non-discrimination among administrative staff, lock in judicial and security personnel. And finally, we are planning awareness campaigns to deal with the structural factors that are at the basis of the different forms... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.5.0	Time's up, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the latest performances of the Labour Inspectorate]] [[310-00061/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in full on the latest performances of the Labour Inspectorate. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Albert, of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.6.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, advisors, advisors, president, good morning. Counselor Torrent, the Labour Inspectorate has proposed a sanction of €328,460 to the Cidac cooperative, with its Cornellà de Llobregat, where on the 30th of April a dinosaur worker died, trapped between the machine and the material he was manipulating. The proposed sanction is the final result of the investigation carried out by the Labour Inspectorate, which began on the day the fatal accident occurred, as well as the complaint that the inspection of alleged irregularities in the safety and occupational safety of Cidac was carried out. The investigation has completed and clearly determines the responsibility of the enterprise in the fatal accident, in order to fail to meet standards of prevention of occupational risks characterized as very heavy offences. In the course of the investigation, the Labour Inspectorate has detected irregularities such as, for example, the permanent nature of work risks, the risk of mechanical contact, work conditions and safety and safety obligations that are incomplete in terms of information, training or surveillance, and personal protective equipment. The inspection has found the seriousness of the facts and, for this reason, has proposed a penalty of €328,460 and has transferred all the documentation to the prosecution. It's very moving. Now the prosecution will also have to intervene in this resolution. Again, it is important to remember the inescapable obligation of companies at the time of sailing for the safety and occupational safety of workers and workers in the compliment of the standards to avoid accidents at work. This sanction is exemplary, but no sanction can compensate for a life. Workers and workers are the most important activity of any company. The improvement of working conditions and the quality of work must be a priority and strategic objective for all business direction. And the Labour Inspectorate is the key, and, as well as its limited resources, it is developing an indispensable task in protecting and defending workers' and workers' rights in our country. Counselor, what will be the lines of action of the Department of Enterprise and Work in the field of the Labour Inspectorate?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.7.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.8.0	Thank you, President. Member, indeed, no sanction compensates no life. Xavi Cayuela's death – only two years ago, let's remember it – last April 30th, was a striking fact; painful for the family and indignant for all pleas. The investigation of the Labour Inspectorate, as you said, certified responsibility on the part of the company Cidac, huh? , for the permanent failure of many of the requirements of the labour risk law characterized as very heavy. The irregularities were diverse, they had to look at the risk of grabbing – as you also said –, fire risk, electrical risk, risk of falling and also, with laissez-faire respect for training obligations, vigilance in health and safety at work. Once all the gravity of the facts, which are varied and which are effectively typified as very difficult, the Labour Inspectorate proposed this sanction of €328,460, which you also commented on. And what Cidac's case teaches us, the unfortunate case of Xavi, is the obligation that we all have folds to age for the conditions of security, of salvation in the field of work. And here there is a corporate responsibility, certainly, but also a pocket at the government level. And to make it, to develop it, we need tools; tools that need to be updated, because, effectively, they are thought and directed and created at certain times and has obviously changed the paradigm in the framework of work, especially in certain sectors. Therefore, we have proposed to develop and implement a Catalan strategy for safety and health at work with the term 2021-2026. This has to be a structural element, a stratègique fonamental element. But at the same time, we should be able to update Law 9/2014, of industrial security, which has remained, in certain respects, very outdated. And yet we are more out of date... – and here we would have to reflect, and I think we would have to do it as a group of parliamentary groups, especially, of course, those representing the Congress of Deputies – reforming the law of labour risks, which is 1995. Therefore, update the tools to ensure that, effectively, the right to work does not entail any risk to health, no risk to the life of workers and no risk to health. [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.9.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the priorities of the Department of Culture in linguistic policy]] [[310-00062/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the priorities of the Department of Culture in linguistic policy. The question is posed by Mrs Raquel Sans, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. We are pleased that, in the new structure of the Department of Culture, the Directorate-General for Linguistic Policy has become a sectoral secretary. This will strengthen public policies related to language policy; help, and much, in the work for normalization of the Catalan language, and ensure that citizens can have the real use of the Catalan language in all areas. Catalonia is spoken about three hundred languages; a multilingualism that is one of the main values of the collection, and also a source of opportunity. It is important that in Catalonia, the occidentity and the language of Catalan signs, as in the first languages of Catalonia, if they are equipped with the tools used because they are preserved throughout the territory and guarantee their continuity. The Catalan must be, as it has always been, the cohesion language of the city council. The català has to be a guaranteed right for all citizens. The recovery of the rank of secretary must be accompanied by the recovery, too, of ambition. The last Republican secretary of language policy assumed a turning point; she promoted pioneering initiatives, such as the law of cinema, the law of consumption, the law of occidentity and also the law of Catalan sign language, or campaigns as successful as the 'Parla'men català. It also involved the opening of language guarantee offices and the inn at the House of Languages. And he also gave a boost to the català as the vehicle language of the school, with the classrooms and the educational plans around it. Initiatives who, with firmness and guaranteeing rights for everyone, ensured that català was the vehicle of expression of our society, the characteristic trait of our culture and heritage also of the non-Catalan speaking inhabitants of the country. It is therefore essential to have a proactive leadership. The names of the council are aimed at this leadership: cool, distressed, full of experts and wills to put thread to the needle. It is for all this, Counselor, that we want to know which reptes identifies, which actions will give priority to the current language situation and, above all, which solutions will be proposed through the new Language Policy Secretariat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.11.0	Thank you. To answer, has the word the lady Natàlia Garriga, Counsellor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.12.0	Thank you... [[For technical reasons, the councillor's intervention has not been recorded. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.13.0	Yeah, yeah, talk, talk. Counselor, speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.14.0	Yeah? Now? [[Pause.]] Thank you, President. MP Sans, MPs, MPs, the linguistic diversity of Catalan speaking territories is one of the main lines of work of the Department of Culture. Our intention is to put on the table, in an open debate, the situation of all the languages that are spoken in Catalonia, with data to the hand and guaranteeing the presence and future of the català, the occidentity and the language of Catalan signs, always starting from the base that Catalonia is multilingual. With the Transition, we came to three agreements. First, that the active knowledge of Catalan language had to be shared by the totality of Catalan society. According to them, the Catalan language had to become a complete language, which normally takes place in social enterprises. Third, which called for the integration between the native origin population and the population reached, at that time, from the rest of the State. Forty years later, we find ourselves at a considerable distance from having sunk those tiny ones. There are still high percentages of people who don't know the language, there is a real danger of digital extinction, audiovisual production in retro Catalan, the use of català to the judicial system is at residual levels and we copy abundant exhibitions of extreme socio-linguistic and linguistic insecurity in people. Therefore, we will work in all aspects of the language, placing special emphasis on the digital field, which is mostly audiovisual. We will give a prospective analysis of the socio-linguistic evolution of Catalonia for the next fifteen or twenty years, so that we can plan the actions that we can take in the field of linguistic policy. And we will also establish a multiannual language policy platform and review the functioning of language promotion and protection mechanisms. We must be realists with the situation of the Catalan language. That is why we need to start a debate with all the social and political agents who culminate in a national language pact. We have to agree and we have to do it together. As I've already sold out to the Committee on Culture, all parliamentary groups to work for the normalization of the Catalan language. MPs, MPs, are in the hands of everyone to build a linguistically diverse and rich society, and promote those languages that run the most risks, such as Catalan. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.15.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the endorsement and guarantees of the Department of Economics and History. [[Ask the Government about the discount and other guarantees of the Department of Economy and History]] [[310-00063/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Martín of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.16.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, yesterday we knew the plan, that fund that you want to dedicate so that those convicted of sedition and embezzlement – in this case, for the crimes of embezzlement – and those to which the Court of Auditors demands the payment of a bail of 5,5_million_euros will be, let's say, they will count on the public support of the Generalitat through this fund that you will create. And you, who is a perspicuous and skilled man in the use of language, explained to us yesterday, in a language that is hardly intelligible, how you are going to carry out that martingala, that bullshit, to favor the authors of the coup to democracy of the year 17. Could you give us some more detail than guarantee that you, from the Generalitat, will not allocate or compromise any public resources of all Catalans for the benefit of those who have struck democracy and whose excesses Catalans are victims?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.17.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.18.0	Yeah, I can give us some more details.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.19.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Martín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.20.0	Well, Mr Giró, I expected a little more prolificness in your explanations, but in any case I say to you what the vast majority of Catalan citizens and the rest of the Spaniards consider about this decision, this bullshit, this martingala that you are trying to carry out to favor your friends, to favor basically those who gave a blow to democracy in the year 17. What you are doing, indeed, is compromising public money from all Catalans, from those who suffered the excesses of separatism in the year 17, who are the victims of that coup to democracy and, moreover, now we are going to have to be the pagans; we are going to have to be the ones who pay the feast to you, because you from the Government of the Generalitat have decided to incur what the Court of Auditors has most likely already warned you: in a fraud of law, surely in a prevarication and probably in another misappropriation of public funds. We sincerely believe, Mr Giró, despite the fact that the Spanish Government tells you that you have to clear the way, and so on, that what you are doing is a new take of the citizens of Catalonia. We find it absolutely unacceptable that the victims of their excesses, the victims of the embezzlement, those who suffered that the public money of all Catalans was destined for the separatist delusions and not for what really interests the citizens of Catalonia – health, education, social services –... That money was destined for social functions for all Catalans and you allocated it to your separatist delusions. Therefore, if Mr. Mas, Mr. Junqueras, Mr. Puigdemont, now pretend to tell us that they are insolvent and that they cannot pay what, make them up. But the Generalitat cannot compromise the money of all Catalans in the payment of these... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.21.0	To answer, the word "Counselor of Economy and History" is written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.22.0	Thank you, President. Look, Congressman, this decree that we approved yesterday and that today is coming out of the DOGC, but even though today is published, I see that everyone already thinks without reading it, I will try to sum it up briefly. It's all the opposite of misappropriation; it's a decree that what they claim is to give judicial protection and protection and support to all public officials, officials and former officials of the Generality, in the same way that they do any public administration of any democracy in the world, in the same way. Until there is a firm sentence, until there is a firm sentence of a judicial administration, it is given protection and judicial protection to any western democratic country in the world. And when there's a court ruling supposedly that it's in the form of guilt in this accounting administration or any jurisdictional type, if it's guilty, the generality, for the public right it has, will recover all the money involved in this management. I'll tell them something else. Miri, the Generalitat de Catalunya, with this decree, does not directly endorse, does not do..., there is no transfer of assets, does not lose the title of the money at any time, and it is only a public foundation complementary to risks, risks that until now, for the reasons that follow, the Generalitat did not have covered and that we will now cover, and that we will do so in favor of the current and future functions. And one last thing. Look, this is a mechanism to cover the penalties that the Court of Auditors is asking for. But beyond this mechanism is another much more important thing; it is an instrument to restore the space of freedom to make political action in Catalonia, to be able to make political action in Catalonia without the need, without the anxiety of knowing that they will come to take your home, your thought and your students – no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. That's getting freedom back. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.23.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the evaluation of the Mobile World Congress. [[Ask the Government about the Valuation of Mobile World Congress]] [[310-00065/13]] The question is posed by Mrs. Irene Negre, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.24.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Deputies, it is an honour to address you from the Chamber of the Parliament of Catalonia, and I am sorry for the sobriety of the Catalan people, as the Member of the European Parliament, starting a new personal stage. Vice President, last week the Mobile World Congress took place in Barcelona. With this congress the Catalan digital sector was celebrating, because, seven months after the cancellation of the Mobile World Congress due to the pandemic of the covid-19, the world's most important technological and business congress returned to the Fira de Barcelona, once again positioning our country as the global epicentre of digital technologies. The crisis of the covid forced us to make all kinds of changes to our lives, both at the personal and professional level; changes that they went through to see 'obligated for the sake of salvation to confine ourselves to adopting us in a habit, such as that of teletreball. But we were also forced to cancel or temporarily paralyze everything that referred to wires and congresses or the impossibility of doing or re-tourism. During these months of change we have been able to live first-hand as important is the technological and digital sector. The new technologies have allowed us to continue with a certain and different normality, as for example with teletreball; they have also offered us new ways of distraction, as well as the opportunity to communicate with our family members feeling the proximity of their looks and being able to accompany the ills that went into the hospital alone. We can say that we have discovered how important the technological and digital world is in our day-to-day lives. Lately we are beginning to see a certain and relative normality, and, in concrete terms, the recovery of the Mobile is not an example. With this edition, there are already fifteen Mobile editions in Barcelona, but this – last week's edition – has been a very special one, since it has involved the revival of the great business lines in Catalonia and the world, and therefore the recovery of one of the activities with the most impact on the international projection of Catalonia as a technological hub. Therefore, events like Mobile are important to our country, not only because it positions Catalonia in the world, but also because it generates a direct and indirect impact on our economy, an economy touched by the covid and that events like these allow their recovery. For this reason, Vice President, today I want to ask you what value it is to the government of this 15th edition of Mobile World Congress in Barcelona and what the impact has been on the Catalan technological fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.25.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Deputy, deputies. Obviously, this was the best Mobile we could do, huh? There hasn't been the best Mobile in history, has there? We've been repeating it since many years, despite the fact that, obviously, so, every year and during a series of years, even since I didn't have to take care of it, the pressure from Madrid, huh? Every year to go to the Mobile Hunt, so, every time they give it, it turns out we did the best Mobile, huh? Every year, we've exceeded the figures. Therefore, sometimes when we listen from certain places in the State we determine opinions about the situation in Catalonia and what harm everything, etcetera, so we may start to relativize these types of opinions, which are always interested and which do not correspond to reality as it was demonstrated in the case of Mobile, that in the end it has to be a virus that has not posed to the picota, but in serious difficulties this event, that even we have to cancel it. But I have to say that the government of Catalonia from the beginning took on the challenge of the recovery of the Mobile. I want to remind you that a few more than fifteen days after the cancellation – I participated in that cancellation meeting–, he called a meeting to the Palau de la Généralita where we committed all the economic and social agents and actors of the country to recover Mobile as it had been better. And we did it this year. And it's more, we didn't just get it back, we just expanded the Mobile contract one more year. So we'll have it until 2024. If here in Catalonia we say that "Barça is more than a club, therefore, " Mobile is more than a congress. And they prove it. The economic figures that have an impact on the Catalan economy are very clear. In the last five years, to give an example, the percentage of employment growth in Catalonia in the ICT sector has been of the annual deu_per_cent. The ICT sector itself, for start-ups and entrepreneurs, has grown a set_per_cent in the last three years. Therefore, we are ahead of a country tool, a tool for the country's economy. We are located on the map of the world, we are located as a digital hub of international reference. And the world you see, the world that's coming is this world that's moving from industrialization to digitalization. And, therefore, we need tools like Mobile and we need to take care of them. And, therefore, the event of the month of fever will be key to knowing the future and where the future of Mobile goes to our home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.27.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on punitive measures to public servants. [[Ask the Government about punitive measures for public servants]] [[310-00066/13]] He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on punitive measures to public servants. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Munell, Member of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.28.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Members of Parliament, Councillors and Councillors. Even as discussed earlier, for the first time we celebrate that the Government has granted defence and protection to persons who, in the exercise of their political or technical responsibilities, may be pre-emptively affected without judicial resolution for a procedure such as the Court of Auditors called for. In fact, the state of public office, as already announced after the government yesterday, is a Spanish law that regulates that any public servant has a right to a guardianship and must be able to be accompanied by the Administration. This is in the accounts of the Court of Auditors, which called for this taxation in 2017 at the request of the Joint Congress-Senary Committee on Relations with the Court of Auditors on the September 17th. Therefore, a political institution. And that this report, this resolution, has no character of judicial judgment, is an administrative institution, as also announced by the President of the Government, Pedro Sánchez. He says: "This is a step forward, which will then have to follow a formal lawsuit and reach a court, because in this resolution it is not clear whether or not there is accounting responsibility, it is merely a provisional and provisional knowledge. Despite everything, this court initiates the claim of these 5,4_million euros and can reach the expropriation or seizure of assets. Therefore, we believe that there is no firm court ruling here, that it is an administrative instance for a court which, moreover, has a political composition and acts at political level. In fact, the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Court of Auditors functionally relies on the Attorney General of the State who, moreover, Mr. Pedro Sánchez has already said one day that "we already know on whom the Public Prosecutor's Office depends". Therefore, a politicized entity. Plus, there's even disagreements in the court itself. Or, at the very least, we should remember Constitutional Court Judgment 42/2014 which recognizes the right of Catalonia to exercise foreign policy. And, therefore, this supports public, technical and political powers. Therefore, Councillor Giró, I repeat what we have said, let us celebrate that for the first time the Government defends the presumption of innocence, freedom of expression and representation of the political and technical roles of the Generality. And, we insist, who are these measures that the Government of the Generality has adopted to preserve and give cover to the situation that affects, in this case, thirty-four people, to whom the court demands without a pronouncement... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.29.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer the word, Mr. Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.30.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Deputy, yesterday the government approved a decree to the law. This decree allows you to have a complementary source of risks, as I said before, in order to cover a series of risks that were not properly addressed. And one of them, as you said, responds to the principle of compensation, that it is the one that requires any public administration to be able to be at the expense of the official or public office or office that is now well-known in the exercise of its function, in the exercise of its function, in an administrative or judicial procedure. So I have to tell him two things. One, we have tried to protect with the work that they have done together, so, the whole government, create a rule that protects the function, but at the same time, do it in such a way that we do not go into any irregularity, because it is a matter of doing things and can be done in a way that is legally solid and that allows them to have a legal defense somewhere else. And, therefore, they can be, therefore, very firm and lasting in time. With this we guarantee that we can deal, therefore, with the bonds that are now being demanded, but it is not only because of this, I insist, it went much further than the subject of the Court of Auditors, that we hope, therefore, that I am serving and sure, as I said yesterday– there are people who interpreted it with irony, but I am telling you the truth– I am sure that if they look at the decree today calmly they will be very difficult not to accept it. Therefore, I trust that they will accept it, that they will see it, and see that it is something that really fits the law. It fits the law. In second place, as well as forward. Look, it's not just about that; it's also an instrument to restore something that's been lost, which is the exercise of political action without it. In these past years we've had a lot for. There's for the country. And I think this is a violation of freedom. There have been other violations. We all know: prison, exile... but that's it too. When everyone... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the criteria for the appointment of the Director General of Afers Penitenciaris]] [[310-00070/13]] He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the criteria for the appointment of the Director General of Afers Penitenciaris. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Garriga of the Vox Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.32.0	Thank you, President. What has it been based on to appoint the new Director General of Afers Penitenciaris, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.33.0	To answer the word has the lady Lourdes Ciuro, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.34.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, deputies, so why do you have the necessary skills and why do you have the confidence of this councillor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.35.0	To answer the question, Mr. Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.36.0	Look, Counselor, you have appointed General Director of Prison Affairs, Chief of Prisons, an agent of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Mr.César Galván. Could not a technical profile with experience be named among the five thousand prison professionals? Mr Galván is a mosso d'ésquadra who has no prison experience. It's as if Major of the Mossos had named a fireman. The unions strongly criticise this decision for Mr Galván's lack of experience in prison matters. Honestly, the workers are very outraged. Listen to them, Counselor. Won't you be a friend of yours from Castellar or Sabadell? Will you not respond to a plugging exercise on your part, Counselor? Is it going to be nepotism, placing friends and family, their way of doing politics? Look, Counselor, there's a lot of trouble in prisons. Too many; too many. Few staff ratio per inmate: one per 40. There are prisons where there are not even three officials for more than one hundred prisoners. Too many attacks in prisons. Increases of up to three hundred_per_cent in some prisons. Sexual assault on female officers. Three deaths in just over a week. You have failed in your security and follow-up measures. For example, John McAfee committed suicide on the day the National Court decreed his expulsion. That's right: they have given a favor and privilege treatment to the prison thugs, those who have been able to enter, have been able to leave, have been able to grant interviews to anywhere... They have been like a prison relay. Trembling. And, of course, the socialist crutch of separatism has left them free, causing serious harm to the rest of the prisoners and causing a serious trial to the Catalans as a whole. Madam Counsellor, we demand the appointment of a technical profile for prison director and that he leave behind the sockets and the nepotism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.37.0	To answer the word "Justice Counsel".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.38.0	Thank you, President. It is obvious that he has no arguments and resorts to injuries, slanders and this counselor will not answer his harm. I do want to take advantage of this control session to thank the outgoing secretary's pocket. The outgoing secretary of criminal measures, reinsertion and victim care, because he had to do his job in extremely difficult conditions. First, with a 155; then with political prisoners, and now, later, after suffering or suffering a management of a global pandemic, which still affects us. Therefore, my thanks go out to the secretary and from the conviction that prisoners have to do a lot of work. We need to put the focus back on the prisons, often the great oblivions of the system. Some pressures that this councillor is visiting, exceptional fact – there was never a councillor or councillor who did it – to talk to everyone, which is obvious that you don't, because you'll work for us to explain what's going on. You'll work to thank the new Director General's dialog, to thank the mediation capacity he displayed in this case to resolve venous conflicts in my city. A person who has a contrasted solvency for the matter to be addressed, which is obvious, for which you manifest, that are values that contribute to the bass in his political group. Therefore, from here, please the work, as I say, to the outgoing secretary because we want to build, from now on, multi-purpose teams with new visions, that face the challenge that we have in a comprehensive way, in a collaborative way, in a way that puts on the table the renewal of the agreement, of the labor agreement, that since 2009 no one has touched, which affects the ability of the employees to work; that, moreover, it puts in value the formation for them to function in order to assume with professional guarantees their daily task to some people who have difficult problems of mental health, that they have difficult problems of capacity of the internals to be able to reintegrate them into society and, allow me to put in value the prison system of our country. A model based on reinsertion, not on punishment or punishment, which we want to deepen, which we want to continue working and which, in a sense, counts on all the good Members and Members of Parliament who help the Commission to do better this job and, also, for the sake of restructuring, this Council. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.39.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenum on the functions of the Government's legal services. [[Ask the Government about the functions of the Government's legal services]] [[310-00058/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Lorena Roldán, Member of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.40.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. Mrs Vilagrà, on Monday the Catalan Generalitat last the legal argument to endorse the bonds of the Court of Auditors. Legal sources, familiar with the opinion being prepared by the legal services of the Presidency, explain that the maneuver would go on to plead against the insurers. And yesterday the Government created a EUR 10_million bond fund for the Court of Auditors. Madam Councillor, have you had the legal services examine the way in which these bonds of the Court of Auditors can be released?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.41.0	To answer the word, Ms. Laura Vilagrà, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.42.0	Yeah. Thank you, President. The Member of Parliament, in fact, the Department of the Presidency, in the band of many other functions, has attached the legal cabinet in this sense, has tasks obviously of advice in right and representation and legal defense of the Government and the Generality of Catalonia. So, everything we do is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.43.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.44.0	Thank you. Well, this is the top of the hills. Look, two things, Counselor. The first, if Junqueras, Puigdemont, Romeva and company need lawyer, let them pay for it. These gentlemen, along with other senior officials, have an open cause for embezzlement of 5,4_million_euros, and on top of that they claim that the Catalans continue to pay for the party? I insist, if you need lawyers, that they pay you out of your pocket. And the second, with finances, three-quarters of the same. What does the Generalitat have to take care of these finances? Doesn't it embarrass you to have small, autonomous, your families with water around their necks ruined, while you create a fund of €10 million to help your own? Doesn't it embarrass you that you still owe the 2017 pay..., the extra pay to the officials? Doesn't it embarrass you not to be paying the 100_per_cent of PODs to health workers with all the effort you are making? It doesn't embarrass you, because you have no shame. Look, that money you're trying to create that fund with isn't yours, Mrs. Vilagrà. That's public money from all Catalans. It's just that this is the embezzlement of the embezzlement. I wish you'd spread help to the restaurateurs as quickly as you give it to the embezzlers. Come on, you skip the law, bad millions of euros, you charge your living together, you pardon them, and now you're also going to leave with everyone's money. You can see that the agreement was this: take it raw while the fines are paid by the others. Of course, if you had decency, what you would have done is claim that embezzled money and not help the embezzlers. And I'm telling you, Counselor, you're not going to get away with this. If you dare to go ahead with this maneuver, we will bring it to justice, because the Catalans are tired of paying the broken plates of their illegalities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.45.0	To answer, the speaker of the Presidency has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.46.0	In a naps bar with collars. They claim that in two minutes and a half he answers things, so very complex really, actually, that would need more depth and serenity. In fact, there are other parliamentary mechanisms that we could use to talk about it more calmly, but in any case the Government of Catalonia protects all public servants, as long as they move from the squad, as long as they are teachers, as long as they are teachers, as long as they are other bodies. And the Judicial Cabinet has commissioned the defense of these public servers, always proportional to the facts. In this sense, these days we are talking a lot about the principle of compensation, that what they claim is that the public servant can see'saffected, damaged, for the exercise of its functions, for the legitimate exercise of its competences. And let's not say the Catalonian General, let's not say this government, let's say the basic status of the public employee, that's to say, the law, the rule that regulates the basic law of public service. In this respect, the Supreme Court's case law also speaks of the right to legal defence, the right to protection of the Administration. In this sense, I like to talk about the Court of Auditors, because it is actually a political court, a court that its party is politically instrumental. For example, now his renewal, after a term of nine years and, in this sense, his party blocks it, so as not to lose the conservative majority. Therefore, there is no separation of powers – it is an anomaly in Europe – but it must be because they still claim that they"finish it. In any case, Europe has warned on various occasions of the failure to complete this separation of powers. In fact, there is news today that several judgments in the Spanish State denounce the non-renewal of the General Council of the Judiciary and want to take it to Strasbourg. And, listen, I'm talking to you now as a politician, talking about separation of powers, if Montesquieu raised his head, obviously, after three hundred years of having conceived this political concept of "separation of powers, which are the basis of representative democracy, I would say that the Spanish State needs to improve, and very much, in separation of powers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.47.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the undertaking Circuits de Catalunya. [[Ask the Government about the company Circuits de Catalunya]] [[310-00071/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.48.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, now that you have been appointed president of the Circuits de Catalunya SL, what do you intend to do with the systemic irregularities collected from the Report of the Union of Accounts 4/2021 on this company?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.49.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.50.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, I am the President of Circuits, indeed, in continuity with the last parliamentary term. In this sense, I take the whole of Councillor Tremosa and we expect this to be a purely transitory situation, because precisely what we are looking for is a profile that can develop the functions of this presidency facing what the Circuit needs at these times, which is a strategic plan that links the model of operation and the model of infrastructure to the most current and most required values in the automotive sector of the sports engine, of competition, but also with an industrializing vocation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.51.0	To answer that question, you have the word "Mrs. Regant."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.52.0	Miri, counselor, the public company Circuits de Catalunya was created in 2011, after the extinction of the consortium. From then on, above all, irregular contracts of ETTs, anomalous awards of minor contracts, RACC charges paid with public money, uncontrollability in the gift of admissions because the grades are not old empty. This scandal caused the Economics Councillor in 2020 not to approve the accounts to the public enterprise, but did this make the government re-think the continuity of the Circuits? No, you just said it yourself. The generality is the shareholder of the public enterprise's eighty per cent and injects every year millions of euros despite total failure and losses; accumulated losses from more than a decade into 100 million euros and never quadruples the accounts. 2019 is expected to win, and finally, there were 4_million losers. The Union of Accounts found out as the RACC, a few months ago, entered unlicensedly by unlicensed advertising and advice without any contract, rather than making the contribution it receives from years ago. The generality pays the whole party with almost 80_million euros per year, if in the band of the direct contribution of 41_millions of assumptions, we add the dollars of Formula 1, the Advance rescues and many indirect investments. Is it just us paying here? Apart from the big prizes, the rest of more than three hundred days a year is extremely helpful and does not generate any benefits for the vast majority of the country. I don't, it doesn't help the industry either. They only contribute to the marketing and advertising level of the car. That the sports engine has nothing to do with the industry is demonstrated with the zero R & D transferable to the street models, as they recognize their own manufacturers. Counselor, betting for the competition engine is contrary to facing the climate crisis and is a social, economic and environmental damage. You get to this point and the moment we're at, they're thinking of absolving the PDU from the circuit? Will they fail to systematically save public money from the lobbies of the engine?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.53.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.54.0	Member of the Commission, it is certain that the expectations have not always been fulfilled in relation to the projects that have been drawn on the circuit, certainly. But for us abandonment is not an alternative. On the contrary, we want to take full advantage of the potential of this infrastructure, which is versatile and which, in a normal year, we say – therefore, not a year of pandemic – has an occupation of the norma_per_cent; until 2020 it closed it with an occupation of fifty-set_per_cent. And the facts relating to the management that you describe, and which are, of course, known to this government and the joint chamber, because they flourish in the report of the Union of Accounts, are facts that they have, I insist, to see with management. But this has nothing to do with the equipment, with the infrastructure and the potential it has from an economic point of view, from a knowledge point of view, from an industrialization point of view. The economic impact is positive, very positive. And, obviously, what we want to do is associate it with values that, in fact, are not those of the 20th century, must be those of the 21st century. And so, for us, the circuit is and continues to be an opportunity to help transform, to be a tractor in the transformation of a sector that is essential for the country. I do not know – and I doubt that any Member knows – how the world of engine racing will evolve in the future, certainly. And we, in any case, want to be there, because, I insist, still feel a tractor. Now, our job, our pocket is to generate a plan for the circuit that allows us to link to sustainability, innovation and the will of industry in a sector, I repeat, essential.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.55.0	Thank you. [[Ask the Government about T-Mobility]] [[310-00068/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on T-Mobility. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Terrades, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.56.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Vice President, talking about T-Mobility is talking about a project that never came up, that never came up. Could you explain to us why you didn't go through the contract you had signed with Mobile to test the target? And what analysis did the target work on the private evidence they made and what percentage of error did they give?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.57.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.58.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, you're up the T-Mobility, huh? And I told him in the appearance that he will arrive soon and that this vice president has taken over the compromise, that he has no excuse in this legislature, such as advisor of Digital Policies and also responsible for the transport, therefore, of Territories, so that the target, the T-Mobility, the new system, say so, therefore of mobility to Catalonia is already implemented in this legislature. With regard to the pilot test that I was commenting on, look, we gave them, in this case, to the GSMA, power..., that the pilot test was for the congressmen, but after assessing the possibilities, it was left that it would be a pilot test for volunteers, in this case, therefore, with some figures that, on behalf of the government and on behalf of this vice-president, we give for satisfaction as we did not have any important implications.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.59.0	To answer that question, Mr. Terrades has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.60.0	July 2012, Councillor Recoder, in his parliamentary office, explains that T-Mobility is moving forward; December 2014, Secretary Ricard Font explains in his parliamentary office that 2015 is the year of entry into operation – but no –; generation of 2019, Councillor Calvet, also here in his parliamentary office, says that now yes, that this two days from now will come into operation; July 2021, finding a disaster, Vice President: we neither have T-Mobility nor have the new tariff model that Parliament has urged the Government to hold by the end of 2020. At T-Mobility we don't have it. We do know that cost increases have risen by 40 per cent in respect of the initial award, and we also know that there is little transparency in relation to costs and compensations or bailouts, because there is no way to access the contract. The delay is undeniable. In fact, the organization of the Mobile, before a unreliable deployment, did not want to experiment, in a technological fir, the digital fir par excellence – before you said it yourself. Mr. Vice President, we're ahead of poor technology planning. Companies that have joined the UTE SocMobility have not been on the rise. Today, T-Mobility no longer has anything to do with innovation; sooner, it will be obsolete, if necessary. After nine years, technology has advanced faster than the project. European cities, for example, Berlin is already developing mobility as a service, serving integral door-to-door. Even Renfe is experimenting and testing the AVE Barcelona-Madrid. Three direct questions, Vice-President: one inn date in operation, tell us when this will work and all Catalans and Catalans will enjoy it; how many public resources we spend on this project, after new years, and whether we can guarantee that UTE SocMobility is not in technical or economic failure. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.61.0	To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.62.0	Yeah, Congressman, you're obviously right about us carrying a lot of years talking about T-Mobility, huh? And, therefore, as I said, we have no excuse to put it, so as soon as it works better. And I'm already telling him that I've taken the personal commitment that in this legislature – and so, you don't make me tell him an exact date, do you? – as soon as possible, the T-Mobility will be put into operation. Actually, we put in a pilot test, huh? therefore, a pilot test in this case concretely with 4,500 users who have been validating the technology and who have made 22,000 trips. We haven't had any notable incidence. And I don't share what you said about the technological obsolescence of the solution. I think the solution that we're going to put on the march, and that we're in these moments, so, piloting, it's a modern solution that obviously incorporates the use of the mobile phone as well. But, above all, the most important of T-Mobility will be the possibility, obviously, of different pricing, huh? The users. And, therefore, for use, but also, obviously, for an intensive use, in this case, of the service, and also because the data generated by this mobility system allows us to offer services and also allows us to be much more effective and efficient in its management. Therefore, my intention is to speed up this deployment and I hope that I can now give you more concrete information about the dates, in this case, of the project itself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.63.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on transparency policy. [[Ask the Government about transparency policy]] [[310-00069/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Esther Niubó, Member of the Socialists and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.64.0	Yes, good morning, thank you, President. Honorable Councillor Alsina. Law 19/2014, of transparency, access to public information and good governance establishes in its article 9.1 the obligation of public railway administrations the information on the results of the quality assessments of public policies. He also talks about the right to a good administration and to a public service of quality, and he uses the open government in various principles that, of course, you know very well, among which the continued best of the quality of the service. Counselor, what is his government's understanding of the quality of public services in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.65.0	To answer, has the word "Victória Alsina", Counsellor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.66.0	Thank you very much, President. Congresswoman, this government's commitment to transparency and open government is total, and that of my council. And, in addition, we want to do so with an all-encompassing view that, as you mentioned, includes and connects transparency with the other dimensions of the open government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.67.0	To answer the question, you have the word "Miss Niubó".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.68.0	Thank you, Counselor, for your answer. We asked him this question because, as you must know, a few weeks ago the European Quality of Government Index, which is an index drawn up by the University of Gothenburg for the European Commission since 2009, measures the quality of the government of the European regions, defined as the quality of the performance of public services together with corruption. And don't analyze these services first, but it's the perception that the citizenry of the services they receive. Well, unfortunately, this indicator, in this latest edition, has again made it clear that Catalonia has a very negative perception of the quality of its public institutions. And because, as I said, we move in the realm of perceptions, it shows a very important discontent and habit of relating to social cohesion problems and, even so, to social support meaning populist political forces. And we can ask ourselves, therefore, what has happened to Catalonia these last years so that we get out so badly in this, under the middle of Europe, to the Cua d'Espanya, together with Andalusia and Canaries, very close to Sicily or Romania, and to the light of Denmark. Some of us wanted to convert to Southern Denmark and fixed 'what we are to years ago light. Therefore, I will not appreciate whether we have an education or a sanitation or a security or a social service worse than many Eastern countries, or that the rest of Spain, but what is clear is that we have a problem with this government. Transparency and good governance are very linked to the quality of our public services and institutions and, therefore, we ask you, as an expert who is not, to take note, to work decisively to regain the confidence of citizens in our institutions and public services. That's making a country, too. We know where they brought us these years of trials. Therefore, let's focus now on improving the welfare of the citizenry, stifling the politics of the administrations, recovering time and prestige lost and, above all, not letting go of more opportunities of progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.69.0	To answer, the letter has the advisor of External Action and Government Obert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.70.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. This is a topic – I think I can speak on behalf of the entire government – on which we will work. The levels of political disaffection are very high all over the world, they are high in Europe, they are also high in Catalonia, and this reaffirms the importance of having an action centered on the open government that is transversal and that, moreover, does not conform with transparency, but connects it with the whole world of open data. The Generalitat also has the capacity, not only to work from the councils, but also to help the local world. This is a line that I would very much like to be able to do in collaboration with the deputies and municipalities of Catalonia. With the time I have now, I cannot go into detail in all the lines of action we have planned in this field. And yet, I believe that, in this specific context, in which the Next Generation funds that are focused on digitization, on sustainability, more arrive, but also on good governance, this government has an opportunity to do so and the plan is precisely so. We'll put resources in there and put energies in there. There are good news as to the steps that have already been taken. I found myself an open government secretary who had done a good job, we have the basis to keep going. Catalonia has joined as a region in the Open Government Partnership, which is a multilateral organization that brings together one hundred national, regional and local governments from around the world. Catalonia has joined; it has joined with a compromise which, moreover, will be done in a collaborative and participatory way with citizens and civil society. And, in the framework of all these objectives, therefore, the Open Government Platform of the Government of Catalonia wants to focus on the gender perspective, to create participatory ecosystems that are distributed throughout the territory, to offer open data to the service of citizens – in this sense, to bring data to the citizen and not the citizens to the data, to facilitate it – and, finally, to continue fighting against corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.71.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the situation with regard to covid-19. [[Ask the government about the situation with regard to the covid-19]] [[310-00064/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Anna Feliu, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.72.0	All right, thank you very much, very honorable President. Honourable Counselor, you know better than anyone that the indicators of the pandemic evolution are very worrying, with a Rt significantly over 3, with a number of daily cases similar to the worst moments of the pandemic and the positivity of diagnostic tests fired over the deu_per_cent, with a special affect on the younger collection. The whole country, and this Parliament too, as it cannot otherwise be, is concerned before this trend in epidemiology. All folded, it adds tension and stress to a health system that pours months and months of excess effort – never enough has it appreciated and recognized –, which must be added to the tasks ordered also the effort of the vaccination campaign, but we all know that vaccination is the great tool that we have in response to the pandemic and, in this sense, that we should be happy with the good data we have in respect. Last week, more than 723,000 cows were laid in Catalonia, between first and second doses, amounting to a total of 7 million doses administered, so that forty-one percent of the population already had a full schedule and more than fifty-five percent had already given a dose. Figures that show not only the commitment and effort of the professionals, but also the clear bet of the citizenry to be vaccinated. But these days, as I said, we are very concerned, and very concerned, about the spread of the pandemic, especially in the age fringes of the youngest people, who are just the ones who have the most difficult vaccination stages. From Junts to Catalonia we have for sure that you will be able to respond with determination, precision and urgency to what is, or seems to be, a five-year-old sisena to Lleida, which has a considerable impact on community health, on the prospects of the most sensitive, already punished economic sectors, at a time when it seemed that the outflow of the crisis could give air to the country's conjunct. Counselor, we encourage you to take measures that are necessary and convenient at this time. We know that they must have a high degree of precision in order to affect the essential restriction, protect the population without criminalizing the collection and continue to protect public morals in a particularly delicate time. That's why we'd like to know what measures and what strategy the department has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.73.0	To answer the words of the greeting counselor, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.74.0	Thank you, President. Member, we are, yes, certainly concerned and we are ahead of a wave that has different characteristics than we have previously had. The first different feature – you commented – is that the age group is much younger than what we found in previous years. There is also another differential fact, which is the fact that in previous years the most socially and economically disadvantaged groups are the groups that had been or were most affected by the pandemic. In these moments, the disease is more prevalent in the most beneficial groups; there is a three-to-one relationship with the most socially and economically disadvantaged groups. So this is another difference. Another important difference – and you have commented on it – is the fact that this event takes place with an already advanced vaccination schedule. And from this perspective it also makes people who at these times are entering intensive care units as well as a profile different from the previous ones; they are people between forty and sixty-nine years, mainly without a vaccination schedule and/ or only with a single dose. Strategy? The first and main strategy, obviously, is how we relate. We all know how the virus is infected and, therefore, how we socialize. Important: normalizing our lives, but also from this point of view it is important that we do so with the preventive and protective measures that we all know. Next. From the point of view of being able to get much closer to this vaccination to the most vulnerable groups, to the groups that have the most difficulty in being able to, so, on this vaccine, yesterday we presented an initiative of the six trucks– at the moment, they will be yes; we hope that we can increase them, while, therefore, we assess whether it is okay – with a vaccine, that is Janssen, that it is a vaccine of a single dose that also allows us to, this most vulnerable people, with a single dose we can already somehow have a complete guideline at the few weeks. We'll put this in..., we'll travel and we'll put it in those places where there's more need for vaccination and with a lot of hours. For now, until the gods of the night, but if it is necessary to vaccinate also of the night. And finally, to point out that they are no more cows. We have the cows we have, but a different strategy of administering these cows. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.75.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the health situation. [[Ask the Government about the health situation]] [[310-00067/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Assumpta Escarp, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.76.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the pandemic has not ended – you said now –: five onada, extreme risk and openings. The vaccination of the moment we have not had so much hospital pressure and luckily they have drastically reduced the number of success. But we begin to have reinfections between professionals and among the residents of great people. The forecast of growth on our own weekdays indicates that difficult days are waiting for us. Advanced vaccination and we share that we need to finish stages, that we need to address the younger ones and, above all, the sectors with lower coverage. We don't want to criminalize any group, that's clear, but we do want to shout at prudence and take the necessary steps to move from mitigation to containment. Counselor, the Socialists and Forward Units Group is loyally on the side of the government, the former and the latter, supporting the measures. And, in spite of the little correspondence, we've kept ourselves, because what really matters to us is the exit of the covid. I sent him a proposal for a pandemic exit pact myself. I am hoping for your answer, but we have already addressed, as we did on March 10, 2020, two very important aspects, which were the col·lapse and the lack of response capacity of primary care and 061. Today, five days later, we have the primary attention that is alerting us to its saturation and the 061 that this week's head caught in a day fifty-seven thousand tricks, forty-thousand were per covid, and they're not... because they can't know, how many tricks were lost. Counselor, who are the immediate measures they will take?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.77.0	To answer the word, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, Salut advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.78.0	I have announced to them, it is certain that, in this sense, primary care has been..., the level of care, that throughout the pandemic has had an element, therefore, of the content of this pandemic, of diagnosis, of treatment, of follow-up and that at the same time in this new episode, by luck, of the moment – by luck of the moment – is not affecting the hospitals. The changes are fundamentally changes at protocol level and also changes in treatment and conception of this new issue, which, as I said, has differential traits.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.79.0	To answer the question, you have the word Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.80.0	Thank you, President. CAPs alert us to new collapses and collapses... at the gates of the CAP find the ones that are going to be vaccinated, the ones that are going to be made the PCR, the ones that have been suspended from covid, the ones that have passed through the Canet Rock and the visits do not covid. During the first wave, the primary made a wall of containment, then gave support to the hospital centers. Perhaps it would be time for the donessin hospital centers to support the CAPs at this time. Some of you have adapted the protocol, but there are a lot of doubts about this to lighten the task to the primary to the detriment of the pandemic's containment. We are once again left behind, not to follow up on cases and, above all, not to test the close contacts that have already been vaccinated. I'm running out of time, Counselor, but I would like to say, among other things, that we need to address... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.81.0	To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor. [[The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.82.0	Congresswoman, I'm sorry. No, from this point of view, primary care is coming, too, from hospital support. From two points of view, from the point of view of vaccination, because the hospital centers are vaccination centers, for a song, and also professional hospital staff are in the vaccination teams; first element. Second, at these times, also during this week, we hope to be able to put different points around the city of Barcelona and the metropolitan area, PCR points, or good rapid antigen test, in hospitals. So, the hospitals... and here I think it was one of the good decisions and one of the good practices we've had throughout the pandemic, it's this community and this coordination between the two networks, primary care and hospital care. Obviously, protocol..., when you talk to me about close contacts with people... – contact, eh? I'm not saying that it's reinfection and that we have – in vaccinated people, we don't have to do... We don't have to do... It's to say, it's not that, in this sense, we're lowering the level of attention, but we don't have to do it. What we're lowering from a point of view with a previous situation is that, with a young person, where you, somehow, don't have..., this young person, doesn't have a basic illness..., we don't have to do the same thing as with a 50-year-old, diabetic and who has a risk of getting much harder. This, in the background, is already done; the only one now, at these times, is that the bulk of the ills we have, of the infected people we have, is this young profile that was commenting on it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.83.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the guarantee of the rights relating to salvation throughout the territory. [[Ask the Government about the guarantee of the rights related to salvation to the whole territory]] [[310-00059/13]] Asks the question to Mr David Cid, of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.84.0	Good morning, Counselor. On 25 June, the law of euthanasia came into force, a long demand from many entities such as the Association of the Right to Die Dignity, but also from the conjunction of the Parliament of Catalonia. It is a law that does not only involve decriminalization of euthanasia, but that converts it, in this case, into a new service of public health, that is, into a right that the Generality must guarantee. And, from satisfaction, we have gone to the preoccupation before this manifesto of religious orders, also Catalans, that manage resources and public hospitals, that say they do not want, that they do not want to complete this law. This concern and indignation also adds to a situation that we live in Catalonia. It is that many women, from many territories, cannot access, in this case, the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. And we want to ask him, from our parliamentary group, from In Comú Pode, how he intends to guarantee the Department of Health the compliment of phonenal laws such as the law of euthanasia and the law of the right to abortion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.85.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.86.0	Thank you, Congressman. In the appearance of the other day, we were already commenting, precisely, on these elements. You've made an element of the religious orders that make a manifesto. I also have to make it clear that there is also a public manifesto, which makes me get there first, but that it also makes the press, from the point of view of saying: "Look, this is the law – one. Two, it's a right that citizenry has, and that, therefore, the Department of Health, the Català Servant of Health, must guarantee. And remember an important element, the objection of consciousness is of people, never – never – institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.87.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.88.0	Counselor, he hasn't returned our comm. But in any case, these religious orders may say mass. Look, I'll give you an example, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.89.0	I'm already a fan. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.90.0	Yeah. A woman from Manresa, for example, also from Bages, cannot access a surgical abortion in her territory because, for example, in her referral hospital there is her patronage, the Hospitalary Order of Sant Joan de Deu, and, therefore, cannot end up accessing this right. Do you think it's just that five hundred women in Catalonia have to move from their territory to access the right to abhorrence? Do you think it's right that there is a division of Catalonian businesses, divided, in which it hasn't been realized, the year 2018, no abortion? You think it's just that hospitals in the Catalan Health Service, public hospitals, like, in this case, the Arnau Hospital of Vilanova de Lleida or also the Verge of the Tortosa Belt, can't make surgical interventions of the amartament? Do you think it's fair that 97.8 – 97.8 – surgical abortions are done in private centers? We believe that the 3_million that you are going to agree with private sanitation should be used, for example, because the mobility of health personnel is increased because you can access this right in public hospitals in Catalonia. And what we're doing for us, and we're moving it, is if we're going to have to end up in a private hospital in order to get to a worthy death. And I... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.91.0	Time's up, Congressman. To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.92.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, the answer is: it's not equity, clearly; it's not equity. The answer... I can't give him another one. Because, somehow, the right is guaranteed – the right is guaranteed – but not equitably, territorially equitable. And, therefore, I can't say yes. It's... the answer to everything you said to me is no, it's not fair, clearly. And so, in this, too, you know, we committed ourselves to working for it. And from this point of view, however, I also need to remind him of an element, which is what I have remembered before and which is substantial, which is that conscientious objection is also a right. If in Arnau, to set an example, I have that all professionals and all professionals are objectors, I can't, from this point of view, get... Yes, well, this is an element, if you want, more organizational, but we can talk about it and we can talk about it; we can talk about it and see what elements have advantages and also cons, against. But from this point of view, yes, remember: the right is guaranteed – because we have to guarantee it – not equitably, from the territorial point of view. I can't say it any other way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.93.0	Thank you very much. Questions to the President of the Generality. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the compliment of the judicial judgments on the educational linguistic model]] [[317-00033/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the current political situation. The word has the Lord Alejandro Fernández, of the Grup Mixt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.94.0	Thank you, President. Do you intend to comply with the language judgments on the educational model in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.95.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, there is no linguistic problem in Catalonia between different languages, and obviously the Government of Catalonia always acts in agreement with the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.97.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.98.0	Thank you, President. The rulings of Constitutional, Supreme and Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia in linguistic matters are already very numerous. To the obligation that every Democrat has to comply with court rulings, it is worth adding a debate on the rational and taboo-free issue; I insist, rational and taboo-free, because immersion is neither sacred nor indisputable. You say it is a model of success, we say it is not, but, even if it is, in democracy we can and must discuss it without any problem. So much so that even the alleged friends of Puigdemont in Flanders do not apply it in their country. For something it will be. In fact, there are three models to address the confluence of two or more languages in the multilingual communities: the first, the freedom of choice with parallel lines, which, by the way, was the one Jordi Pujol carried in his electoral program of the 1980s – had to be facha by then; the second, the linguistic conjunction, which is the one that points out the Spanish Constitution and the sentences to which I referred, and, third, the linguistic immersion, which only applies here in Catalonia and Greenland. That is not gold all that glitters recognized it yourself in October of 2018. It was through the report entitled « The linguistic model of the education system in Catalonia, the so-called Bargalló report. And what did that report indicate? Basically two things. First, that in the interior regions severe deficiencies were observed in Castilian and, secondly, that in the metropolitan areas severe deficiencies were observed in Catalan. How is that resolved? For precisely with the linguistic conjunction. Even their own technicians said so, but they were forced to eliminate that report when the most hyperventilated Koiné hordes began harassing them on social networks, saying that you were traitors and botiflers. It is therefore clear that the linguistic conjunction combines law enforcement, common sense and the guarantee of the linguistic rights of all Catalans. All in one. And you know it perfectly well. But their own fanaticism prevents them from recognizing the reports of their own technicians. In short, by complying with court judgments you will do yourselves a favor, you know it perfectly, but above all you will do thousands and thousands of Catalan students a favor and the rights they have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.100.0	Thank you very much, President. The aim of the public education system in Catalonia in language matters is that the students of our country should finish their studies with the knowledge of Catalan language, but also with the Spanish language and, obviously, with a foreign language, if not two, and therefore all the actions that we are carrying out are in this line. The rules are clear, in this sense. The first law of education in Catalonia, also the changes in this matter that have taken place at the level of the basic state regulations will give full coverage and validity to the linguistic system that we have at the schools of the education system of Catalonia. Linguistic immersion is the model that guarantees the learning, precisely, of the three languages and rests on the educational projects of each center. Therefore, it is the educational projects of each centre, through the professionals, through the teachers, who are the ones who have the expertise and the professionalism to be able to apply these educational projects, which, also, according to the sociolinguistic reality of each municipality, of each territory and of each barrier, at the end of the own educational community, are the ones that end up adapting, from the general margin established in the regulations, which are the percentages of study in each language. But what I would like to point out to him is that if it is obvious that there is a lack of linguistic learning in Catalonia, it is in relation not to the social use of catalá, but above all to the knowledge of catalá with enough guarantees to be able to develop professionally and with all the skills, also, in the country. Therefore, it is also important, specifically at this time, that we strengthen support programmes in the field of language policy to the schools, because what comes..., and I come back, what comes here is not to pose, to introduce ideological and political elements to the teaching, as you were doing now, but to ensure that the students of Catalonia finish their education cycle with full knowledge of the Catalan language, the Spanish language, the Arabic language to the Aran and also two foreign languages. This is the objective and that's why the whole public education system works in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.101.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat whether he has the impression that the referendum of secession of Catalonia is done with the support of the President of the Spanish Government]] [[317-00036/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.102.0	Mr President, you know, because Article 1 of the Spanish Constitution says that sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, and you also know that Article 2 of the Constitution says that Spain is indivisible. And yet, you went to talk to President Sánchez last Tuesday to ask him for a secession referendum along with amnesty. And I, as a Catalan, am concerned that the President of the Government did not make it clear to him that the issues that are very clear in the Constitution are not subject to negotiation. On the one hand, the ambiguous statements of Mr Illa, Mr Iceta, Mrs Calvo and Sánchez himself do not leave us at all alone to the Catalans who live under the oppression of successive separatist governments. And on the other hand, you yourselves seem convinced that the referendum will take place. Mrs Forcadell said so and Mr Rufián also told Mr Sánchez. And my question, Mr Aragonès, is, if after that meeting on the 29th, and seen the picture by the Socialist Party and by its Republican Left Correspondents, if you do have the impression, as Rufian and as Forcadell, that this referendum will be held in Catalonia by Pedro Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.104.0	The reference to self-determination, the reference to the independence of Catalonia is inevitable and it is the inclusive political solution that allows the citizens of this country to speak freely about the political future and the relationship they wish to have with the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.105.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.106.0	I asked you about the feeling you got after the visit last day 29 with Mr Sánchez, and you are dizzying the loss, but the truth is that your government has a two-year expiry date, imposed by its partners. Two years for him to bring under his arm two illegal targets, which are that illegal referendum and amnesty under his arm. It is two years under his blackmail, two years in which we will see new abuses like that of the ten-million fund to pay for the money that the separatist leaders swindled us. And I tell you, during these two years we're going to protect the Catalans from these abuses, of course, and we're going to plant face. But I also tell you that there is another way than those two years with an uncertain end and with more suffering for all of Catalonia, which is to stop harassing the other half of Catalans with unrealizable requests, the one that we go on the path of coexistence that I suggested to you last July 1st. Think about Ciutadans' proposals and work for a more prosperous Catalonia in which citizens feel freer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.107.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.108.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Member, we are going to defend the opening of a negotiation process with the State, which will not be easy, which will be an extremely complex process, but which must allow a political solution to the conflict between Catalonia and the State. And in mature democracies, sure of themselves, this solution can only come through the ballot box. And, therefore, it is necessary to lay down the instruments to allow this way of the ballot box, the democratic way to resolve conflicts, as it is to be done, not to store them, not to solve'smitting the imposition, not to solve'settling the repression, so they are not resolved. Therefore, they have to be resolved and the solution sees, precisely, for the articulation of democratic mechanisms so that the citizenry deliberates, decides and expresses itself clearly in the ballot box. And that's my goal, that's the government's goal. And that's what we're going to negotiate with the state government. And yes, we'll defend amnesty. Yes, because there is a repression that affects drawings, drawings, hundreds of people in Catalonia persecuted for their political defense, persecuted, precisely, for the defense of their political principles and their political ideology. Why else, what is the opening of cases against mayors and mayors? What, if not, is the persecution of all kinds of public pronouncements. Also what are the accounting accountability requirements – and I do not say so, a judge of the Court of Auditors – for which are further statements, which are accessory activities. Or, finally, base charges, no accounting documentation, only in press releases. In front of this repression: amnesty. And I want to remind you of one thing, Mr. Carrizosa, amnesty is so legal to the Spanish State that there is a law of valid amnesty that it prevents the persecution of the torturers of the franchise. Therefore, if this amnesty law is in force, there must also be an amnesty law for which democracy has been defended and which Catalonia has right to decide its future. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.109.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on strengthening primary care with more staff and resources]] [[317-00034/13]] The question is posed by Ms.Jessica Albiach, Member of the Grup d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.110.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, we're in the middle of five, the contagions already know they're crazy. Yesterday we could listen to the Government of the Generality announce the closing of the night, but we would like to know if, beyond these restrictions and to continue asking for sacrifices to the citizenry – there are economic sectors that are already very hit–, you think to strengthen the primary with more personnel, with more resources, because we know that you are on the limit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.111.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.112.0	Thank you very much, President. Commissioner, since the beginning of the pandemic, primary care has been stepped up with more than three thousand professionals, both from the point of view of health professionals and also from the point of view of the administration. Our will is not only to strengthen the primary, but the conjunction of the system. And, obviously, we're at a difficult time. I want to take advantage of this opportunity that you give me to make a call to the responsibility of all the people and also to make our commitment in two lines. The first, in accelerating, within all the possibilities we have, which is the vaccination process. Counselor Argimon has explained this, not only from CAPs, but also from large vaccination centers, but we are going to look for people with these eight mobile points that will be in the territory for specific actions. Also the compromise, from the whole organizational point of view, to remove all possible load of primary care. And, also, a third commitment, beyond the health field, that is to continue to support all affected sectors as we have been doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.113.0	To answer the question, you have the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.114.0	Yes, President. It's true that reinforcements have arrived, but it's not enough, it's not enough. It is that the primary reaches the eighty_per_cent of the covid cases. And not only that, they're following up on the chronic disease, which we know at the toughest moments in the pandemic, they lowered the diagnosis of severe disease by thirty percent, precisely because they disprogrammed visits. And now we're concerned that they're starting to deprogram. But not only that, they're doing vaccination – which we know is, as you said, the main tool to fight the virus – and they're also doing PCR tests. And all of that in a lack of personnel scene for the damn detail. Thousands of professionals are missing from primary school, hospital and the entire system. Now the tracking system has jumped through the air. We have a system that's exhausted and tense. And the hardest part is that the private, once more, is negotiating with the public col·lapse. And that's why we ask for very clear things, not so simple, but very clear and, above all, essential. The first is more personal, more personal. It was said before that there were hospital staff at the primary school. We still need them to arrive. And if I can bring in more retired volunteers, it has to be done. We need, too, more pressure. The other day, last week, entities and citizens went out about fifty points of Catalonia to ask that the twenty-five percent of the health insurance policy go to primary care. Third, and it's also very important, sending out to investigate whether there are abusive practices on the part of the private in increasing the price of diagnostic tests, because we are at a time of extreme need. And to end – and that's not just for the government, it's for everyone, it's for the communication media, it's for everyone, we stop criminalizing young people, because they're simply not vaccinated, they're not vaccinated, and we are. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.115.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.116.0	This time is focusing on young people not because they are young, but because they are not vaccinated. And I think we need to make this very clear and I want to repeat it. The young man in our country has made a great effort since the beginning of the pandemic. They have sacrificed their social life that is produced outside the family environment to protect their surroundings. So now is also the time to speed up vaccination to protect them as well and, at the same time, to remind everyone, the whole population, that they can act responsibly. The deficiencies you have identified are structural deficiencies of the system. If it were as simple as the Economics Councillor to deal with the Health Councillor and the rest of the Government, then obviously, also, we need, we have, five thousand more professionals and we can have them one day for the other, it would have already been done. There is a shortage of professionals and professionals take years to train, so they are very important structural measures of the system. In order to be able to make these structural measures of the system, which also include the professional career, all that is the promotion of new vocations, beyond continuing to collaborate with the faculties of medicine and nursing because vagina expanding the places, we need to strengthen what is the financing of the system of salvation of our country. As much as we can leverage resources from the rest of the departments into the realm of salvation, only resources can come from whomever it is. Therefore, it is also important that the State becomes involved, because it will not only be good for Catalonia, but will be good for the joint...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.117.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat for an oral reply in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the extraordinary measures to combat the increase in the child poverty resulting from the end of the summer]] [[317-00040/13]] The question is posed by Mrs. Dolors Sabater, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.118.0	Thank you very much, President. President, the question is, what measures, in this case not structural but extraordinary, has he foreseen to his Government in view of the increase in the danger of the child poverty that will result from the arrival of the summer. Because we already know that the poor child is a structural issue that needs structural measures to resolve's, but I am, with closed schools, closed beggars, a preventive policy respect the vaccination of monitors and lleure monitors, that it has made tanks without the majority of couples, camps and colonies, and with problems to avoid..., knowing the hours that the educational centers are closed that do not allow the majority of infants – we are talking about the thirty-and forty-cent of the creatures of the Principality – who suffer from poor children and do not have – with closed schools – many times a healthy space to live and to spend the hours, which I am asking for which extraordinary measures they have predicted to put on the march this summer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.119.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.120.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, from here I also want to launch a message of confidence in the education sector of the country, which every year makes an extraordinary effort to be able, also during the summer months, to guarantee the education and the follow-up of children and young people beyond school. With yesterday's data, and I refer to the words of the same professional association in the field of education, we were talking about some forty-six cases detected over 250,000 participating in the whole range of activities of education. These forty-six cases have led to a close contact confinement of several hundred. We're talking, if I don't recall, about some four hundred people. It is likely that these figures, as the pandemic and this event have a much larger impact on the population as a whole – couples are not a tight and empty environment, they are porous to society and, therefore, despite the fact that all security measures are in place – these figures are likely to increase. I would also like to remind you that an important part of the monitors and directors of educational activities are professionally educated and are therefore already vaccinated. Therefore, confidence in the education sector, that the past year has made a very great effort and that it has successfully overcome it. This year the rep is much bigger. There'll probably be more difficulties, but we'll be at his side. Second, for what it does to the actions on the poor child and on the vulnerability of the children of our country. In the past few years, scholarships have been promoted, precisely in the field of education, especially in the field of summer, and, obviously, this year has also been boosted – if you want the data, you can give it more detail later. But I also believe that it is important that structural policy is to guarantee the income of households and households. In this sense, the guaranteed return of citizenship this year will return to old expense memories, because, unfortunately, there are demand memories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.121.0	To answer the question, Ms. Sabater has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.122.0	Yes, President, you haven't given me anything, and I don't need it, because the Greuges Synod is in charge of giving them back to us every year. They're very precise, which they've just made clear what the magnitude of the tragedy is. You didn't give me any response to food. Even in the closure of schools and school children, a measure as simple as the money targets – better, obviously, but, as a minimum, it guarantees the right to access basic food to the majority of this population at risk for the poor child – turns out that it also stops when the holidays arrive. I have not been given an answer in respect of this or how the collapsing teams of social services, which are working on a program contract of 19th year, which does not yet take into account the consequences of the covid. And that the structural, we already reckon, will come, but it is that we are talking about the emergence of the estuary, that puts at risk the life and mental and physical salvation of most of these creatures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.123.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.124.0	As I said, honourable Member, for exact data we can provide you with information, without any problem, just missing it. I'd like to remember a few things. In the past year we have completed the programme contract, in the area of municipal social services, which have allowed for much more resources, especially for what is the area of emergencies caused by the pandemic. So there has been this social support and I think that, as I said before, it is also vital to strengthen family entrances. This is why we have taken measures for workers in ERTO, strengthening the guaranteed income of citizens and measures...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.125.0	He asked the President of the General Council to reply orally in the plenary on sanctions against the Court of Auditors. [[Question to the President of the General Court on the penalties imposed by the Court of Auditors]] [[317-00039/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.126.0	Do you intend to pay with the money of all Catalans the sanctions to the separatists brought before the Court of Auditors?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.127.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.128.0	Thank you, President. The Government of Catalonia will, of course, work and take the necessary steps to give coverage to public, functional and other workers, who, in the exercise of their duties and who have acted in accordance with the regulations, must assume responsibilities. I want to remind you that there is a presumption of innocence. I want to remember that. I also want to remind you that measures to support public workers, as this government has done, make many other governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.129.0	To answer that question, Mr. Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.130.0	Those responsible for the October One coup were condemned for the most serious political crimes of our democracy and for stealing money from all Catalans. They stole our freedom, encouraged division and favored confrontation. Catalonia and many millions of euros were stolen from us. The Court of Auditors now claims more than €5 million in embezzled funds in lobby contracts to spread falsehoods about Spain, business travel, foreign embassies, European Council reports and an endless list of shingles and separatist entities. And now, they intend to charge everything to the account of the honest Catalans and workers. They want us to finance, once again, their farce; that the money to pay for the separatist party comes out of the pocket of all Catalans. In other words, all that their predecessors stole is paid for by the suffering citizens, who have been unable to work normally for more than a year. Well, look, we're not gonna let this happen. And most Catalans, either. They won't even be able to fool all their voters anymore. You have turned separatism into the most profitable agency of placement in the history of democracy in Spain; an agency at the service of the well-being of a few, which uses the political division to live of all Catalans. But they're finished with the function; their resistance box is empty and now they have to return everything they've stolen. The Court of Auditors knows that it is relentless and independent, one more source and guarantee of our rule of law. That's why they've been victimizing criminals for weeks, walking around Catalonia with these tearful stories, talking about the embargoes and what they're going to suffer. But in this chamber and in all of Catalonia, any citizen knows that anyone who skips the law pays it. They have now announced the creation of a ten-million-euro fund to cover the bonds they require. That's his concept of Catalonia; putting everything common to Catalans at the service of a few. But neither the lady belongs to them, nor the Catalan belongs to them, nor the budgets that come out of the pockets of all Catalans belong to them. Mr. Aragonès, you're lying and Mr. Turned you lying. The creation of this supplementary fund is not intended to protect public officials, its sole objective is to finance the judicial cases of the coupsmen and to use public money to shield those who promote hatred and division, because its only concern is to prevent criminals who have failed the law from paying for what they have done. We're not going to stand still and we're not going to keep quiet. We'll go to court. We're going to appeal your decree law and we're going to file a lawsuit for embezzlement of public funds. Mr. Aragonès, you've started your countdown as president. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.132.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, a new threat from the extreme right in this Parliament. Now the countdown. I don't know if they put me in the same place as Thursday's publisher, which they publicly threaten, and to whom from here I send all our solidarity (Applause), because even when they come back from us we defend their freedom of expression. I don't know if my account starts back, anyway, that's what this Parliament will always decide, you won't decide. You don't think they'd decide that. You have made some statements that, well, apart from your usual amount of forgiveness, I think they contain some falsehoods that it would be good if we put them in replenishment. Have you talked about public resources to report to the Council of Europe? Is it said that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has rejected money from the Government of Catalonia to pronounce itself clearly against repression? Well, first of all, I assure you that you have not rejected them, but in any case, are you saying that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe would be willing to be bribed to draw up a report on these characteristics? I think you should put your words through a little bit. What you generate is hatred and division, and you try to do it all the time, in this Parliament. And they're carrying it... and they're constantly threatening us from day one with falsehoods, accusations... the decision we made yesterday is a decision of the law decree, which is consistent with legality. It's what they do, too, by providing assurance, too, many other governments, some of which you support. The Andalusian Board has a policy that covers accounting responsibility. Not a guarantee of an endorsement, no, no: that it pays, that it pays the accounting responsibility if a senior officer of its government turns out to have to assume this type of responsibility. And you give support to that government. So, when you do it, it's... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.133.0	Time's up, President... [[Greetings.]] [[Question to the President of the Generality on the negotiation of the next general assumptions of the State]] [[317-00037/13]] He asked the President of the General Council to respond orally in plenary on the latest developments in political affairs. The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.134.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable President, very Honourable President, Councillors, Councillors. MPs, MPs. Let's start this intervention with a support show and a conviction. Together for Catalonia we expressed our solidarity with the two agents of the Cos dels Mossos d'Esquadra who yesterday declared to the National Audience, that they face three years in prison to accompany President Puigdemont. They are an example of serving the country, of dignity and of courage. And we want to state that we are at your side. [[Greetings.]] And we also want to express our total rejection of the attacks on the LGTBI+ collection that took place in the last few days in the Spanish State, but also in Catalonia. Hate, discrimination, intolerance can't fit into our society. We want and work for a country because everyone has full freedom. In this preamble, President Aragones, we would like to know what his position is on the negotiation of the next assumptions of the State, if he believes that it is appropriate to establish a joint strategy of independence, with a shared view of the country, or if he considers that it is a question that each party has to deal with for its own band. The position of Juntes for Catalonia is very clear: we know that when we come together, when we work together, we are stronger to defend the interests of Catalonia and its citizens. Although the State's assumptions obviously have no bearing on a negotiating table for amnesty and self-determination, we think that all the strategic decisions we take from independence must be taken from the consensus and with a shared decision and a shared look. We have to work with the strong actions and assumptions of the State... and the political position of the independent groups on the assumptions of the State is obviously a force action. It is essential to coordinate institutional action in the different parliamentary chambers, as is the government agreement between Esquerra and Junts for Catalonia. And in this sense, President Aragones, we would like to know your opinion of respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.136.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the first place, I agree with your words of support to the two agents of the Mossos and also of condemnation of attacks and attacks on the LGTBI collection of the last weeks in Catalonia and abroad. In a clear and clear way: the negotiating table for the resolution of the political conflict with the State must advance independently of what the position of the Catalan independent parliamentary groups in Madrid is. This is not about changing the general assumptions of the State. The negotiation we face is a complex, difficult but absolutely necessary negotiation. Therefore, I think it is clear to separate the two things. To preserve what must be clear, clear from a negotiation and obviously also to be able to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia. You told us here today that your parliamentary group is willing to negotiate and agree on the general assumptions of the State, I understand. I think it's... if from here, you want a shared position, I think it's good that you can work through consensus, through proposals that are shared and that, therefore, you can do much harder. From here on, you will find my total predisposition to make it easier for you to do so, I also understand that there are parliamentary groups in the Congress of Deputies, which are to which they correspond, but in any case, I will always make it easier. And I complement the investment agreement, in this sense, that established this will of coordination from the consensus, I will put all the facilities there, in this sense. Because, precisely, at the end of the political conflict negotiations, there are key elements that we must fight with the greatest ambition. It's not incompatible one question with the other. It is not a substitute, the negotiation, of the defense of the interests of Catalonia riu for what it does to investments, for which it makes transfers that can come from the general assumptions of the State, for which it can come, agreements that can incorporate in order to be able to improve the living conditions of the city of Catalonia. Therefore, you will find your strength, on my part, to facilitate what is coordination in all areas, so that you can go with great strength to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.137.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the performance of the Government before the repression of the Court of Auditors]] [[317-00035/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Josep Maria Jové, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.138.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, that repression will not disappear until the political conflict between Catalonia and the State is resolved, we already knew. Many of us are first-person acquaintances, but we take it without renunciation and face. That there is a general cause against independence that doesn't exist is evidence, but a legitimate and democratic movement like this one doesn't make or claude. These last few days, however, we have seen the petja, like another of the fish of this repressive gear, the Court of Auditors, pursue thirty-four more families. It's the execution of a perfectly designed plan that now goes through economic strangulation and civil death, to insist on revenge, because we have the debate, the democracy. 5,4_million euros more on the table are, short and short, the reaction apparatuses of the State that are deployed enraged, shameless, with impunity. It's another repressive way, the economics. Unknown mass. It's a less visible way to arrest her, to exile her, to the macro-judicials, but it's tough and relentless. Today, thirty-four families have the future strangled by a false court that condemns without judgment, that exonerates those who are Aznar's friends, that makes the eyes big to Rajoy, that remains immobile before the millionaire compensation in Florentino, but that pursues by ideology the External Action of the Generality; an external action that we have right to do, for promotion, protection and for law. With these 5,4_millions, the Court of Auditors has already stripped more than 15_millions of family drawings. And the cipher up at the twenty-two, if we add the fiances arranged in a way, even duplicated, in other jutjats. And also to defend the right to vote, to express itself politically. We are talking about astronomical figures, unabsorbed in fifteen days. Unjustifiable. Fixed for a corrupt organism and loaded with nepotism, dominated by the more Spanishist right-wing reaction, directly inherited from the franchise. And before all this, for these thirty-four families and for those who will come, there is only one solution and it is political and democratic: amnesty and self-determination. And immediately, solidarity, which has never failed us. But also the determination on the part of the Government, because the repression asks us all, citizens and the Government. And we rejoice that it is steps from proclamations to deeds, from symbolism to concreteness, when it comes to defending democracy and the dignity of public servants and servants. In this sense, President, how will your government act in this new case of repression?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.140.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, we will defend what is the right of the public workers of the Generalitat de Catalunya, the right of the civil servants and of all the staff associated with the Generalitat, also of the higher ranks, to do their work. And to do his job well and not to be persecuted for doing his job well, to have done it according to the legal order and according to what are their functions and the duties that this Parliament does to him. So yesterday we approved a law decree, which creates this complementary risk fund, which allows the same function to be performed by the public workers' insurance policies, which make the insurance policies that have other public administrations that also cover these responsibilities. With the same scheme; a scheme that is obviously before a repression that uses all possible routes, distorting laws and capturing power bodies in the State, will surely be a path that, unfortunately, cannot be complete nor forever, we know. And therefore, it has some limitations, but clearly it has been a step forward, because we believe that it is not only about the cases that are now, but also about the cases that may be there in the future. Public workers must not be afraid of doing their job, well done, according to what the law allows and also according to what is established in the Parliament of Catalonia and in the government program. The law we have promoted precisely sees various legal orders, not just from the Law 13/2015, which establishes the obligation of the Government of Catalonia to guarantee the civil responsibility of other bodies and public workers. Also the Law 5/2020, which modifies the law of public office of the Generalitat de Catalunya, which obliges the Generalitat to guarantee responsibility also in these cases, not only of the workers who are in strict administration, but also in the public sector. There is no heritage displacement in any case. In fact, the coverage that is a woman of risk is much less than the coverages that they have insured, for example, Galícia, Castella and Lleó, Andalusia, Castella - La Manxa or the same Government of the State for which it refers to accounting responsibility. Accountancy is not directly assumed; it guarantees endorsement, because it can, therefore, protect before this accountancy responsibility. Therefore, it is not a complete solution, but obviously we, determined to defend the generality's skills and the good work of public workers... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality and the President continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.141.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his attendance at the conference of autonomous presidents]] [[317-00038/13]] The question is posed by Mr. Salvador Illa, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.142.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, few minutes ago, in response to Junts' spokesman for Catalonia, Mr Batet, you said literally – if I didn't make a mistake taking note – his predisposition, he said, to defend the interests of Catalonia's citizens. Mr President, will you, as is your obligation, attend the conference of autonomous presidents to be held this July in Salamanca to discuss, among other issues, the recovery, transformation and resilience plan and the arrival of European foundations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.143.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.144.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, as I said earlier, I don't plan on going there for a very clear reason, because in photos they won't find us; in actual work meetings, yes. And the effective work meeting I am convinced that it will be the State-General Bilateral Commission that we will be celebrating before the end of this month, as the President of the Spanish Government compromised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.145.0	To answer that question, Mr. Illa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.146.0	So he said about photos, his predecessor, according to his own words, he said. Miri, in Catalonia I don't think we're doing everything in myths: I go there, but I don't go there; I go there, but I don't want to go there, but I don't want to go there. Catalonia, Mr President, deserves a President without complexities, who defends the interests of Catalonia, without complexities, with firmness, with conviction, with arguments, with loyalty and with alliances, for example, with the President of the Valencian Community, Ximo Puig, or with the President of the Balearic Islands, Francina Armengol. Mr. President, I should be in place. This meeting that will be held in Salamanca is important. We are not going to Catalonia in terms of European foundations. Certainly, I extended my hand to make a pact in this chapter. I'm waiting for an answer. You can just sort out the way you want, but I'm going back to repeating my hand to reach an agreement in a matter, you know, in which we don't go well to Catalonia. The policy of the empty chair, Mr President, has never given good results in place, nor in Catalonia. The bilateral relationship is very important, and you have my support in defending a bilateral relationship, which provides for the laws of Catalonia or Spain. But everyone knows, too, that this does not exclude multilateral relations. And later than we've seen in the pandemic. Mr. Aragones, you're almost fifty days old as President of the Generality, forty-seven if I don't miss the numbers; fifty days you're ruling. Please leave it to me to be the government to preside over a government only in the middle of the country and, please, to be a president in the middle. I attended, defending the interests, as you said, from all of Catalonia to the conference of autonomous presidents. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.147.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.148.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, look, what I don't accept is that you say that we govern across my country, no matter what. Forty-seven days, in forty-seven days, clear measures, not found, not diplomacy, no, no, clear measures: EUR 993 million in aid to enterprises, in addition to EUR 61 million to workers in ERTO, in addition to EUR 917 million which will benefit 500,000 Catalans and Catalans, among which 25,000 young people who will take part in the working market directly. A total of €2,000 million in forty-seven days. I don't talk to him anymore, from the beginning of a year, no, no; from my investiture, 2,000_million euros in forty-seven days, destined for the whole country – to the whole country. And, therefore, you come precisely from resources that are ours, because it turns out that the resources of the European Union are only from the Government of the State? Did you hear that they're also from the government of the generality? So we'll execute them all. [[Greetings.]] What kind of heritage conception do you have of certain administrations... and then you come to tell us that we have to work for everyone, when, when, listen, I have mentioned to them measures that are useful for everyone? On these forty-seven days, we have, on forty-seven days, found ourselves not only with parliamentary groups... – except for those you want in this table of parties, because with the extreme right we will not gather there to talk about solutions, because it is impossible – we have met with all parliamentary groups, with the Assembly of Barcelona, the General Council of Aran, economic and social agents, the two employers and the two unions, with the Government of the State, and obviously we will continue in the next weeks to lead the country's assembly. And also, in reference to the European Foundation, to achieve effective co-governance of the Foundations, because what we cannot find is a centralization in which there is no information about the calls and in which it is decided from the ministries and we simply have to do here as a processing office. No, no; the Generalitat is not a processing office, the Generalitat must also be able to decide in the field of European foundations, because we play to us the future of industry, the future of a future economy and a rich shared and also the future of digitalization and green transition in the country. Therefore, obviously we will defend you, but obviously effective fall, do not fall empty. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.149.0	After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day, the communication to the Ple of the composition of the months of the commissions. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules, once elected in the months of the commissions, its composition must be communicated to the Plenary. The composition and election of the members of the months of the commissions is included in the file of the Ple that has been distributed to all the deputies and, therefore, I call on them to complete the reading. [[Pause.]] [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to debate on the judicialization of the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain]] [[350-00005/13]] If that could be so, we would now do the next item on the order of the day, which is already the appearance of the President of the Generality before the plenary to debate the de-judicialization of the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. In accordance with Rule 172 of the Rules of Procedure, insofar as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the plenary of the Parliament for a debate on the judicialization of the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain, the President of the Generality, very honorable Mr Pere Aragonès and Mr Garcia, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.150.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Vice-President of the Government, Councillors and Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, Bon dia. And, before I get into the matter, I would like to make a little point to show my concern about the evolution of the covid-19 pandemic in these past few days in Catalonia and to be able, therefore, to place clearly what must be a repte of country, which is to overcome this issue in these months of summer. And the idea is clear, to convey, that we are not doing well; whether it is because of the virulence of the delta or because after mass months and with the end of the state of alarm there has been a process of relaxation, the truth is that we are not doing well. The data we know them: the risk of resurgence and the speed of transmission have increased markedly in the last few days; the primary care centers are noting an immense pressure, and this pressure is beginning to notice at the hospital, especially in non-critical hospitals, still not at critical beds, breaking, therefore, the downward trend that had been produced after many and many weeks. The vaccination campaign is progressing well, however, and this is one of the positive news, and it is the path that clearly indicates to us so that we can turn this situation around. We have more than half the population vaccinated with the first dose, and with the full schedule it exceeds forty-u_per_cent. But what shows us all folded is that the pandemic is not over, the virus is not gone, and that it's true that everyone is not very tired, that the first ones that are not tired are the health and care staff, but that, despite this situation, despite what the vaccination process offers us, there is no way to lower the guard because the cage continues to have the ability to shut it all down, to paralyze it all. Therefore, it is necessary to stop the new wave of covid-19 because it threatens to go over the health system again and puts at risk the social and economic recovery that has cost so much to recover. And that depends on everyone and everyone, to always act with responsibility, with a common sense, with sense, in order to avoid taking more steps back than anyone else wants to do, but that, if circumstances oblige us, as we have done in the case of the night octurnal, we must do to preserve the salvation of the city council. I'm sorry about this initial point, which is not the reason for the appearance, but I think the situation is quite delicate, rather alarming to make a call to responsibility. On the subject, I have asked to compare before the plenary of Parliament, where all Catalans and Catalans are represented through the different parliamentary groups, to debate the de-judicialization of the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State; and to debate with all of you, who represent the diversity of opinions existing within the Catalan society, as we pass a stage of judicialization and repression and return to politics. Therefore, as we stand against repression, it only makes the situation worse, and we open a democratic path to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State at once. It's time for the dialogue, it's time for negotiation, and it's time for the agreement to open a democratic path to find a solution that allows everyone to regain their freedom and that allows Catalans and Catalans to vote freely which must be the country's future policy, which therefore also allows them to vote on Catalonia's independence. This is one of the great objectives of the new stage that we are opening up, a democratic transformation that, together with the green, feminist and social transformation, forms part of the commitments that I made just a few more than one month ago they trusted me to be elected president of the Generality of Catalonia. From that moment I think we've taken steps, and above all I think it's obvious that there are some things that have begun to move. First of all, prisoners and political prisoners have regained their freedom, and thanks to this, today, President Puigdemont and Vice President Junqueras will be able to retreat, together with other members of their government, after more than three years and a half gone for repression, extended for exile and prison. Secondly, the Council of Europe approved in its parliamentary assembly a report calling on the Spanish State to allow repression, to withdraw requests for extradition against exiles and exiles and to halt the persecution of political representatives and public servants in the exercise of its mandate. And, thirdly, we have disbanded the table of negotiations with the State, the country where it is recognized that there is a conflict of natural politics between the Spanish State and Catalonia and that there is a government-to-government negotiation to reach an agreement that will have to count on the endorsement of Catalonia's citizenship through the vote. So, a few steps have been taken, some things have changed, but there are things that do not change. It's obvious that repression doesn't stop. The general case against independence, with hundreds of persons pending trial or under the threat of the Court of Auditors for its democratic compromise, remains active. I need to find a way out and I need to find a solution. And for us the outcome is clear: freedom and democracy, amnesty and self-determination. This is the majority will of the citizens of Catalonia expressed at the polls on February 14th; this is the majority will that reflects this Parliament and that is to be given form through a great national agreement that aggregates all the supports around an amnesty law and a self-determination referendum to strengthen Catalonia's position at the negotiating table. We must recover and strengthen the great alliance between institutions, parties, civil society and citizens that has allowed us to move forward to make amnesty inevitable and to make self-determination inevitable. For this reason, in order to begin to shape this national agreement, we will normally convene the parties that supported the investiture to present the agreement before the next meeting of the negotiating table, so before the week of September 13th. I want an inclusive agreement, that you seek the complicity of all those who make their own the most basic principles of democracy and freedom, of human rights and of civil and political rights. That's why we'll talk to everyone, we'll look for everyone's complicity, with the compromise because Catalonia votes on its political future in a referendum. This is a clearly inclusive proposal. The proposal for a reference is the most inclusive of all because it does not oblige anyone to give up their views and, in change, it obliges us all, to whom with all ambition we defend the Catalan Republic and those who prefer to remain in the Spanish State, it obliges us all to convince the citizenry of which is the best option for the future of the country. It forces us all to accept the outcome. All this is what I want to talk to you about as representing the city of Catalonia, here today. I want to talk about pardons and how these can only be a first step, because in no case do they solve the general cause against the independence that continues to act. I would like to ask you to accompany me in the state's demand that I give urgent compliments to the opinion of the Council of Europe in order to put an end to repression. And I want to talk to them about the National Accord for Amnesty and Self-Determination, to start giving us political tools that reflect the great consensus of the country. Begin. On the 23rd of June, I think a good part of the country experienced a deeply exciting day, probably from the most exciting collective of the past few years. I don't have a clue. After three and a half years in prison, President Forcadell, Vice President Junqueras, Councillors Turull, Romeva, Rull and Forn, Councillor Bassa and civil society leaders, Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sánchez, came out of prison. They went in with the certainty that they had not done anything wrong, with the tranquillity of no crime, and they came out with the conviction that the only solution to the conflict between the Spanish State and Catalonia was to listen to the citizenry, because you decided the citizenry. He goes on to give the word to the Catalans and Catalans so that he is free who must be the political future of the country. All of them, he's always moved their will to help improve the life of the citizenry. That is why they are committed to the welfare, prosperity and freedom of the citizens of our country. For this reason, defend – and defend – that Catalonia becomes a republic in the European mark, to build a future that is fairer, brighter, greener, more feminist. And that's why we make our own ideas, because we share this willingness to make life easier, nicer and happy for the citizenry. Today, after a long time, after too long, these new companies and companies can embrace again their friends, their families, the most suitable people around them. Without a doubt, these people have also suffered these three years of repression. And, therefore, this fact is a joyous one. Because it is a relief for them and their surroundings, but it is also a relief for the whole of Catalonia, which, in a very large majority, was three and a half years old demanding the release of prisoners and political prisoners. But we're not fooling each other. We may be happy, but not satisfied, because with the pardons nothing ends. With the pardons for themselves, the conflict is not resolved. Don't fool anyone. The pardons must be an important step that must give credit to the path of negotiation and agreement to resolve the conflict with the State. With pardons, therefore, it is recognized that the sentences were unfair, and this helps to push the democratic path to resolve the political conflict. And pardons can help there to be a more balanced negotiation, but also, as true as that, it is that pardons do not end with repression and the judicialization of the political conflict. And ending repression is an essential step in resolving the conflict. The pardons do not end with the continuing disqualifications of the Supreme Court. Civil and political rights are not fully restored. And someone who doesn't fully dispose of his civil and political rights isn't fully free. The pardons do not resolve the situation of exiles and exiles, persecuted for the same cause as political prisoners, for the same cause they were sentenced. He doesn't give a solution to the set of exiles, nor does he give a solution to President Puigdemont. It does not allow them to make Catalonia as a citizen without being persecuted for justice or being engaged. The pardons do not stop the open causes against democrats for having made the October 2017 referendum possible. They do not stop the general cause against independence which, despite the steps that have been taken, continues to be very active. And the last example we have with the Court of Auditors, a political organ that obeys political directives. An ideological court that pursues us for what we think and not for what we've done. For this reason, he pursues the generality's external action of the past two years, simply because who does it is independent. With regard to international politics, Catalonia has always done so. And we have skills of respect, as do other territories of the State that also do outside action. The difference is that they're not independent, the others. It is persecuted for opinion and for having a political position that is not shared by the powers of the State. And this is an act against political pluralism. We can talk about everything to the foreigner less of Catalonia's independence. According to the criteria of the instructor of the Court of Auditors, as president of the Generality I can go to foreigners to give support to a Catalan company, answer all the questions of the interview less the question that refers to the independence of Catalonia. Absurd, yes. With repression, that's absurd. And it comes down to the absurd thing that you're chasing for work before 2015, before anyone knows that October 2017 is a reference. All this generates absolute defencelessness. You can't defend yourself in front of an ideological court where there's no presumption of innocence, but there's a presumption of guilt. All those who are persecuted by the Court of Auditors are limited to carrying out a taxed governance work for this Parliament, for the Union of Accounts. And in a good part of the expenditure had already been audited previously by the Court of Auditors without any redress. They were, therefore, limited to carrying out a presumption of the Generality approved for this Parliament. The expenses passed all the filters. There was no warning from the Constitutional Court. For this reason, it is unfair that today he is forced to respond with his assets. Why don't you help yourself because you've missed the standards, help yourself by the intent of your political ideas, by the intention behind the political thinking of the majority of government. And if it is interpreted extensively that it is and that it is not the competence of the Generality. The Court of Auditors acts as the Constitutional Court. Approximating the ability to decide on what is competence and not the competence of the Generality of Catalonia. Therefore, the Government of the Government of Catalonia, like all public workers, also in this case, will give protection so that the workers and workers of the Old Government guaranteed their presumption of innocence. Because we trust in the innocence of all the people persecuted for this court. Because any public server has right to be defended for its Administration. Therefore, a solution has been made that is of urgency but that it is of general coverage so as to prevent the persecuted persons from responding with particular assets to bonds that are indecent and, therefore, this action allows them to buy time to find an adequate answer and for, obviously, the Court of Auditors' case to end. Therefore, it is necessary to guarantee the presumption of innocence. Never before had the Generalita adopted a decision like this, but before arbitrary decisions, decided actions and according to the law, which cover everyone; before irrationality, rationality and firmness. It is necessary to protect public servers, which have acted at all times with an unquestionable compromise with the country's citizens. It's done with a tool, with a law decree, that gives cover to public servers. In the face of the Court of Auditors' arbitrariness, the Generality's security of public servants in order to ensure that the generality's competencies are exercised in full. I have no doubt that this action of the Court of Auditors so patriotic certifies that the nature of the repression goes through amnesty and not through pardons, that an amnesty law is essential that restores the rights and freedoms of all persecuted persons, that it can be all open judicial cases and that allows the return of exiles and exiles with complete freedom. And this is what we demand from the Government of the Generality, and this is what we demand a large majority of this Parliament representing the citizens of Catalonia. And on the bright side, I have also turned back the report that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has given to meet now fifteen days ago and to which from the Government of the Generality we demand the Spanish State to give urgent compliments. I am convinced that a vast majority of us agree on the defence of human rights and of fundamental freedoms, basic principles which we share as democrats, as Europeanists and which are reflected in such important texts as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the same European Convention on Human Rights, adopted in Rome on 4 November 1950 and ratified by the Spanish State in 1979. A conviction that is the legal basis of the Council of Europe, an international organization that currently groups forty-seven European states with the aim of defending human rights, parliamentary democracies and peaceful relations in Europe. It is one of the first clearly Europeanist organizations, driven by the European movement, which began to articulate after the Second World War to ensure the progress of democracy and human rights. For this reason, 1954 this organization created the European Court of Human Rights, to call for the compliment of the European Convention of Human Rights that the Spanish State signed in 1979. So let no one deny the Council of Europe. We already know that it is not the European Union, it cannot be a class of Community law or international law, but all members of the European Union are members of the Council of Europe, and the European institutions are also in the same inspection and assessment regime as the member states of the Council of Europe. Hence the importance of Resolution 2381/2021, which answers the question: « Should politicians be pursued for statements made in the exercise of their mandate? Is it possible to pursue public representatives, politicians, for pronouncements made in the exercise of their mandate? This resolution was adopted by an absolute majority of the members of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe present at the plenary session of 21 June 2021. An import that no one should want to lower or go through if he firmly believes in the defence of human rights, fundamental freedoms and international commitments, to which he has voluntarily assumed, has been added the Spanish State. This resolution states – I quote –: "Everyone, and in particular the policies, has the right to make proposals for the implementation of which may require changes in the Constitution, whenever the defence media are peaceful and legal and the objectives are not contrary to the fundamental principles of democracy and the fundamental rights. And the resolution goes on to say: "This includes calls to change a centralist constitution for a federal or confederal one, or vice versa, or to change the legal status and the skills of local and regional territorial entities, also to hold them to a higher degree of autonomy or even independence. As far as direct references to the Spanish State are concerned, I would like to point out that the resolution states that the offence of organising an illegal referral, punished with up to five years' imprisonment, was abolished in 2005 and that in that reform of the Criminal Code the offence of sedizione, punished with up to fifteen years' imprisonment and requiring an element of violence, was maintained without change. As we all know, the organizers of the October 1, 2017, referendum were sentenced by sedition and, as we all know, at no time did there exist the element of violence required to convict by sedition. So he points out to him the resolution of the Council of Europe when he says – and I quote again –: "It is indisputable that any of the policies in question called for violence. On the contrary, the prosecution admits that they asked the protesters to refrain from any violent act. In fact, on various occasions, hundreds of thousands of demonstrators presented themselves without any violent incident, thanks also to the contention that most of the time the Catalan and Spanish security forces, which were also deployed in large numbers, were exerted. And I finish the quote: "So, clearly and diaphanously, the Council of Europe concludes that it has the right to ask about the independence of Catalonia and that it did not use violence to organize the referendum. And, therefore, sedition convictions are unfair. Faced with this reality, the same resolution puts on the table a set of recommendations that we require the Spanish State to complete. The Council of Europe is committed to reforming the crime of rebellion and sedition, because they cannot be reinterpreted to punish the organization of an illegal referendum, which was decriminalized in the 2005 reform of the Criminal Code, or to impose disproportionate sanctions before non-violent acts. The Council of Europe calls for the release of Catalan political prisoners sentenced for their role in the organisation of the 2017 referendum and for the abandonment of procedures for the extradition of exiled Catalan policies. The Council of Europe asks that the procedures remaining open for the organisation of the 2017 referendum be completed and that it refrain from punishing persons for symbolic actions that only express its solidarity with detainees. The Council of Europe asks that the crime of misappropriation be applied in such a way that responsibility arises only when real losses can be established, quantified to the assumptions or actions of the administrations. And finally, the Council of Europe asks that the State open a path of dialogue and negotiation with Catalonia to resolve the conflict. The conclusion is clear, the Supreme Court's ruling condemning the organizers of the report to a hundred years in prison is totally unfair. Our people have been locked up in prison for almost four years unjustly. They were convicted of a crime that he demanded, because he could apply his sentence, a rape that never existed. And yet he cries out more to the one who kept them in pre-trial detention for two years accused of rebellion. Although some political opportunism tends to minimize the political impact of the resolution of the Council of Europe on the prestige of the Spanish State at international level, such as democracy, is obvious. At the same time, this resolution clearly does not go unnoticed to the European Court of Human Rights for its connection with the Council of Europe. Therefore, this international body, of which the Spanish State is a party, has shown what we all already knew, that wanting citizens to decide their future policy in a free, democratic and peaceful way can never be a crime. And it has demonstrated judicial repression against those people who have committed themselves to making it possible for citizens to vote. And here I want to thank the work done by many people who have been involved, by institutions that have been present, who have made reports that have also served as a basis and that have facilitated the information and the pocket of the members of the Council of Europe. Also on behalf of the Greuges Union of Catalonia or for parliamentarians of the Assembly of the Council of Europe, like Senator Laura Castel, who have followed very closely the preparation of the resolution; a resolution that opens up before and after the international legal supervision of the causes against the independence process. Therefore, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Europe invites us, indicates the need to open a new stage. We are committed to the resolution of the Council of Europe and we did not open up a negotiated path with the certainty that gives us the knowledge that we have the right to decide on the independence of Catalonia and that, in any case, no one persecuted has committed a crime. With this conviction and from a discrepancy and from an obvious divergence, last week we agreed with President Pedro Sánchez that he would reactivate the negotiations table without further delay to resolve the political conflict between Catalonia and the State. An area of government-to-government negotiation, which reaffirms the existence of a political conflict between the Spanish State and Catalonia, and which can be resolved politically through the dialogue, negotiation and an agreement that will have to count on the endorsement of Catalonia's citizenship through the vote. The table, therefore, of negotiation will gather the week of 13 September in Barcelona, and during the proper weeks will need to work to agree the methodology of work and the order of the day of this found. As we are not tired of claiming, the Government of Catalonia will defend amnesty and self-determination. We will do this for democratic convictions, because we collect the will of the citizenry expressed in the ballot box on the 14th of February. And we will do so with even more conviction because we have arguments coming from one of the main institutions for the guarantee of human rights in Europe. We know that amnesty and self-determination, the freedom of prisoners, the free return of exiles, that no one else has to go into prison or be pursued economically, administratively or with deprivation of their civil and political rights, and a reference to resolve the conflict between Catalonia and the State are proposals that generate broad consensus within the Catalan society itself. And it is a proposal, that of the referendum, that is inclusive, that includes everyone, regardless of what votes. It obviously includes those who want to defend Catalonia from the Spanish state and defend it in the ballot box. The reference includes them. It obviously also includes those who want Catalonia to be an independent Catalan republic. He's included us, too. And I included the final decision of Catalonia's citizenry. Therefore, it is a proposal that can generate broad consensus in this Parliament as it already does in the case of Catalan society. We must therefore promote a great alliance of institutions, parties, civil society and citizens in defence of amnesty and self-determination, freedom and democratic resolution. An alliance that regains the experience of the national pact for the right to decide and the national pact for the referendum. A great national agreement for amnesty and self-determination that gives form to this political proposal and binds all political and social support around the proposal of Catalonia to resolve the political conflict with the State and to give us the strength to defend it. And that's got to go a lot further, obviously. It has to go much further than just giving support and coverage and penetrating to go beyond what has to be a negotiating position. It must also support this national agreement with a clear, firm and decisive stance on the Catalan citizenry in defense of amnesty and self-determination. This table of negotiation and defense in this space and in all possible spaces of amnesty and self-determination, together with the struggle against the covid-19 and the economic social and emotional recovery of the country, will be my priority in the long of the proper weeks and the proper months. The point, therefore, is that this agreement is possible before the meeting of the negotiating table. And to make it possible, therefore – as we have already given in this round of parliamentary groups – we will work with the groups that allowed the investiture, so that, with the utmost celerity, we will make a first find so that I start walking. From here, my will – because this compromise we have with the forces of the investiture – is to open it to the rest of the parliamentary forces. It is to open a dialogue with all the political forces that are likely to join, but also with all the socio-economic agents, with all the representatives of civil society, institutions and the municipal world. That's why I understand the national agreement for amnesty and self-determination as a cry at the side of Catalan society, as a cry at the side of the country to mobilize to make amnesty inevitable, to mobilize to make self-determination inevitable. I want an inclusive agreement that can represent the plurality and diversity of Catalan society outside its position on Catalonia's independence. It is an agreement that can also bind all those who do not want the independence of Catalonia, but that they defend that we have the right to decide whether we want to become an independent republic, whether we want to become a republic in Europe, which we have the right to decide which one we want to follow the relationship with the Spanish State. As I said, I have no doubt that the reference is the most inclusive option of all, it is what everyone represents, because, precisely, I do not rule out that no one can get what defense: those who defend continuity in Spain, with a reference they can win, they must win; those who defend independence from Catalonia, with a reference we can win and we are dared and decided to win. But he must also be willing to lose, if Catalonia's citizenship also decides so. Therefore, the reference is inclusive, there is no other option that is as inclusive as this. There is no other option that before the conflict we have with the State allows everyone to defend, in a procedure granted and recognized, their position. It is the one that allows, therefore, to position itself in equal status of conditions: it does not oblige anyone to renounce its position; it does not, obviously, oblige to renounce its premises. When you don't force yourself to resign, when we can all find in this political proposal the paper that represents us, this is the most democratic solution. And the references are not divided, as the choices are not divided and each one chooses its option and we accept the results. It is a democratic counterposition of ideas and projects, such as modern and advanced societies, and where all the Members here can say their own, and all the citizens, with freedom and equal conditions. Therefore, this is the job we have as a country far from our own weeks and months. Specifically, in the next few weeks, build this great alliance around amnesty and self-determination or around, if you want to go to what this represents, freedom, repression and democracy and referenda. It is time to transform the broad consensus into an effective tool, a political tool that also strengthens..., among other questions, this tool must also allow to strengthen the position defended for the majority of this Parliament at the table of negotiations with the State. I can't give to politics. That's what the Council of Europe tells us. The Council of Europe tells us: "They do politics, they go through the dialog. They do politics, debate and decide. As if the State could be the permanent judicial system. It may well be all form of repression. Even though we are strengthened by the political proposal that allows all proposals to be defended, it is this basic political proposal because everyone is able to defend, it is the one that we defend, amnesty and self-determination. And from here, open a democratic path to resolve once and for all the political conflict with the State. We are not fooling ourselves, it will be the hardest negotiation the Government of Catalonia has made of its contemporary history and it will be the hardest because the government will not give up defending what is a broad consensus. It would be easy if we gave up, but we didn't come to give up; we came to defend the great consensus and the tools and instruments that allow everyone to have the opportunity, which everyone feels represented. I am convinced that with the complicity of a great agreement, around a great agreement we will have the strength to defend it with all the strength, with all conviction and representing the great consensus of the Catalan society. They ask them that in this negotiation, which will be, as I said before, the most complex, the most difficult, because it is the most ambitious that the Government of the Government of Catalonia will have made in contemporary history, there accompany me, accompany us and we go to defend the great consensus of the country: amnesty and self-determination. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.151.0	Thank you very much, President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of two minutes each. The first word is Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.152.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. President, I also want to start talking about the pandemic and say four things. In the first place, expressed concern, much concern about the situation of the pandemic: 492.89 cases per hundred_ thousand inhabitants in the last fourteen days. That is to say, in the last fourteen days in Catalonia there have been 38,349 people infected with coves. And on seven days, 378.33. That is to say, most likely, almost certainly, by the end of the week he sees, at the beginning of which he sees, the cumulative incidence in Catalonia will be over 750 cases per hundred_ thousand inhabitants. Little joke. And are we talking about not criminalizing collectius? What can't they tell the people that they have to be responsible? What can't we tell the people that they haven't been vaccinated that they can't party in lockdowns? The second question is precisely this, make an alert cry. Not in the short term, either, but when we have a vaccination level of seventy_per_cent, because the virus has already taught us that we must always be alert and that it has given us a lot of surprises. Thirdly, to express confidence in the vaccination process, which is working well, as some of us have said – it cannot be said by everyone. And the fourth thing, to continue expressing my support to the government whenever it is led, as is being done, to take account of the criteria of technology and science. I offered a coven's pact, I made it out of conviction, not tacticalism; we'll follow it. I want to see that I asked for a meeting that didn't happen. And that marks the whole of a government and marks the whole of your presidency, Mr. President. And here I leave it. As a matter of fact, not tactically, I would still be on the side of the government, even though I was pleased to have a face-to-face meeting with you at this time, my group, the principal of the chamber. On the subject of today, I want to make a preliminary warning: I will give clarity to courtesy today. I think I'll be able to express myself correctly, but I want it to be understood and I don't have much time to unravel my ideas, do I? His intervention, President, was the intervention of a political group spokesman, not the President of the Generality. He has disappointed me (a few applause) – he has disappointed me – because you, as president, have to address the whole country, not part of the country; this is already done by the spokespersons of the groups. And he's deceiving me. And he's been deceiving me, you know why? Because I was expecting you... I was expecting a different attitude. Today's appearance..., the title of the appearance is an erroneous title, if not incomplete; it speaks of judicialization and the political conflict of Catalonia-Spain. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, No democracy – no democracy – that is before its name does not have a system of separation of powers that delimits the spheres of politics and the spheres of the judiciary. And in Catalonia, justice has acted because some of them broke out of the political arena and acted in violation of the rule of law, the commonwealth that we had given ourselves. And no democracy that comes from this name does not allow the line of the right state to be passed. And alert with giving lessons of democracy, I made it very clear, I said to the beginning, that you are the only one who here tried to suspend some elections when he did not have the skills to do so; alert with giving lessons of democracy. ( Some applause.) I don't own it, but don't give it to me; and less you to me, I insist, that he suspended, he tried..., well, he suspended – he suspended – some elections. On September 6 and 7, 2017, the right state was violated and this is why it has to be done. And this precisely marks the way forward if we want to recover that politics occupies the space of politics, which is respect as a red line – in this new time that opens up in Catalonia – respect for the framework of coexistence and the rule of law, which is precisely the source of its legitimacy as President of the Generalitat and that of those who are here as representatives of the citizens of Catalonia. A framework of coexistence in which any political project can be defended, also one that I do not share and which I fight, which is that of independence; a framework of coexistence, I go beyond, which can be changed, but by the procedures that it has established and counting on the whole world. And, by the way, it's enough to see the ratings of yesterday's Spanish team match, in which there are five Catalans who played, to see that in Catalonia this separation is more than a little popular. [[Widow's remorse.]] And a cohabitation mark..., and a cohabitation mark that must be respected and that if it is not respected it will act again to ensure that we all have our space to be able to jointly decide the future of Catalonia. And on the basis, precisely, of this state of law, the Government of Spain, on 22 June, on Tuesday, took a measure, which is contemplated in the state of law, a measure which is aimed at all of Catalonia and all of Spain and which wants to help open a new political time. It addresses all of Catalonia and all of Spain more than just concrete people and wants to open up a new political time, turn full of two years that have not been good, with the limit of respect to the state of law, with the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact as method; and we ask that with two rules of conduct that we try to self-demand, that they are to tell you the truth, not to make promises and not to fulfill them, as you have done here today, and to make plans that unite and do not divide the people of Catalonia. And to open this new time, effectively, we must recognize that there is a conflict between Catalonia and Spain, which must be addressed, but there is also a conflict between Catalans, which is what you are refusing to recognize. That's why he's the president of Middle Catalonia, and I'm telling him more, half as much as listening to you every day is smaller, so he doesn't go to the city council. You spoke of the opinion of the Council of Europe. I recommend to everyone that you read it honestly, because you've missed some parts, but there's one that matters to me especially today; I'll say it in English, maybe that'll get us better. The Council of Europe recommends an open constructive dialogue with all political forces in Catalonia – in Catalonia – "including this opposing independence. Mine – like mine. And you, who speak so much of dialogue and dialogue and of making an inclusive approach, gathering only those who agree with you, are refusing to open a dialogue in Catalonia, and pretend to be the president of all Catalonia. Mr. Aragones, please. Mr. Torra should have been more certain of his arguments, which brought this dial table together in the last parliamentary term. ( Some applause.) He's got her together twice. It is true that many did not want to go there, they themselves – it is self-defining not to attend a dialog table – but you have the obligation to summon it. I do not feel represented by the views you have made here today; respect them, as you ask them to respect mine, and ask them to sit down and we can discuss them among all and we can seek a point of consensus from Catalan society. President Tarradellas said: "Catalunya is as big as we all know, and she's as small as she is because there's no one left. And you've been deceiving me today, because I've made a standstill, with a tone that I think is not what a president who wants to follow from all of us, proposing a monologue with those who think like you and refusing, making the flag of the dialog..., refusing to meet with those we think differently. I return to say: do not be a president in the middle of Catalonia; be a sincere president, act with all his skills, go to the place where to go to defend the interests of Catalonia, and of all Catalonia, not only on the one hand, of all Catalonia. And if you're sure of your arguments, as I'm not one of mine, we'll follow in a table, in the framework of the Catalonian Parliament, if you want, and we'll contrast the points of view that we have, we'll contrast the reasons, we'll contrast the arguments, we'll contrast the full routes. And I think we can find a point of consensus, which won't satisfy me at cent_per_cent, most likely, but it won't satisfy you at cent_per_cent, but that's what it's about, right? Why, Mr. Aragones, do we live together and decide together, I suppose? Also here in Catalunya? We all have to count, don't we? So, listen to us, with the least. Miri, it's time to correct – it's time to correct. The decision that the Council of Ministers took on June 22 is not easy, you know, because it already brings some years in politics and has accumulated experience. But it was a decision to move's, to open, to help open a new time in Catalonia, which ran away from immobilism, which recognizes that there are many problems and many issues to improve in a full democracy, such as Spanish, but with all full democracy, imperfect. I ask him that you are not quiet, that he is mogui, and that you are doing it thinking in all of Catalonia, not just in one part. If he does, he'll have my support; if he doesn't, he'll have me face-to-face. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.153.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Illa. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, he has the word to Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.154.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aragonès, you spend the 24 hours of the day lying to the Catalans. They use the institutions, once again, at their will, and call for an appearance to discuss the de-judicialization of the political conflict and, as I have told you, they come up to this rostrum to repeat the usual mantras over and over again. And I am obliged to say to you for the umpteenth time, Mr Aragonès: there is no conflict of any kind between Catalonia and Spain. Neither separatism nor the couptists represent Catalonia. Therefore, the problem – your problem, Mr Aragonès – is not of the Catalans, it is strictly yours, of those who have delinquent and persist in delinquency; of those who have subverted the constitutional order and persist in subverting the constitutional order. And finally, as I told you this morning, of those who have stolen and persist in stealing money from all Catalans. And yes, for stealing; for stealing money from all Catalans. We said this morning: 5,15_million public funds that were handed over to a Catalan external network. An amount that adds to those diverted by Mr Mas for the illegal consultation on 9 November, to Mr Puigdemont's 4.1_million. In short, about 15_million_of_euro stolen from the pocket of all Catalans to finance illegal embassies, a network of lobbyists abroad, as I have told you, with the sole aim of damaging the image of Spain, let us not forget: it is nothing more than damaging the image of all Catalonia. But the problem, I insist, is not between Catalonia and Spain, it is a problem of you that bring to this chamber and that it has no more object than to come out free of your crimes, because you think you are superior to the rest of Catalans. That's the real problem. And I ask you, Mr. Aragonès, what makes you believe that you are above those who comply with the laws and with your civic obligations. What makes you different? They do not respect the law, they are contrary to the rule of law, they justify and promote violence, they embezzle public funds and they have even come to sponsor the burning of businesses. Any Spaniard, Mr Aragonès, from the north, the south, the east or the west, from all the national territory that behaves like you, criminally, is condemned and serves your sentences. And this is because in democratic systems – and listen to me well – we are all, absolutely all equal before the law. And I will tell you one thing: having the complicity of Mr Sánchez's illegitimate government, of bishops who have abandoned their parishioners or of the words of the Secretary General of a supranational body such as the UN that hosts totalitarian regimes will not prevent us from ideologically fighting them and portraying them to Catalans as they are, criminals. [[Some applause.]] And I repeat: no one will come to tell the Spanish courts how to make their decisions. No one. The pardons are one more step in the agreement signed by the government of Pedro Sánchez and the separatist leaders. An agreement based on the betrayal of all the Spaniards, which had the initial objective of guaranteeing Sánchez's investiture and getting the coupsmen out as soon as possible. Once again, separatism before the current Catalans. The pardons were part of the agreement, but an initial goal, not the last. Pedro Sánchez has given wings to separatism and will do anything to stay one more minute in La Moncloa. Four years after the October One, the coup d'état perpetrated by separatism, we return to the exit box. There are no legal or political reasons for pardoning the coupsmen. His pardon only responds to an agreement signed in the large offices and away from the general interest of Catalans that will only bring more division and more confrontation to Catalonia. Upon their release from prison the coupts assured that they would do it again, and I tell you today, from this rostrum, from the Parliament, that we too will do it again. And that the Catalans are convinced that they will also do so again, and that is why, as I have already announced this morning, we will bring an appeal to their decree law and a lawsuit for misappropriation or prevarication of public revenues. [[Some applause.]] Remember, in 2017, that VOX did not have parliamentary representation, and yet we managed, with the support of very brave, to characterize us as a popular accusation and sit on the bench Mr. Oriol Junqueras and the rest of the separatist leaders. A few weeks ago we filed an appeal against the pardons, and as I told you, we will do everything in our power to have them revoked. I was saying, we'll do it again. And you..., and from here I say to you: the Catalans will never again be alone before this separatist mafia who acts, as I have said, from behind the law, betraying his office and using the resources of all Catalans for the benefit of a few. And they will do it again, I said, the honest Catalans who went out to the streets to defend, a few years ago, their girl homeland and their big homeland, to defend the unity of Spain and to say loud and clear that you do not represent Catalonia. Mr. Illa, where have you stayed? How will the socialists who played it face up to the abuses of separatism and voted for it by believing in their promises? And now Mr. Sanchez, without you doing anything, betrays them. What do you think, Mr. Illa, when Mr. Rufian laughs at you in Congress and challenges you? You, Mr. Illa, have been humiliated, and you have turned all your promises into wet paper, into false promises, into more lies. You said in the investiture debate that there would never be a referendum or amnesty. But we all know that, from the Socialist Party, the PSC, Catalans cannot expect anything unless they lie to voters, weaken democracy and act as separatist buttons. Mr Aragonès, I have to say to you: your continuous contempt for Philip VI is a lack of respect for the people of Catalonia. When you tried to bring Catalonia to civil conflict, it was our king who, with his impeccable speech, defended legality and constitutional order. I used to tell you that we are on our way to another lost legislature; in the midst of a serious economic and social crisis, you and your advisors are more likely to ask Junqueras for a new amnesty or a meeting with Puigdemont in Waterloo than to meet the needs of Catalans. And your problems, Mr Aragonès, are not solved with amnesty either with the referendum or with the opening of more embassies of fictitious republic abroad. You are constantly talking about problems that affect you alone, but you forget that you are responsible for the ruin of millions of Catalans, who are responsible for the departure of thousands of businesses, for the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs, who are responsible for the impoverishment of workers, responsible for violating the freedom of parents to educate their children according to their convictions, who are responsible for insecurity on the streets, encouraging illegal immigration and financing the mafias. In short, you are responsible for the inability of so many young people to access, for example, housing and are responsible for the degradation of neighbourhoods, allowing the Okupas to act with impunity, encouraging the rise of narcopies and filling our streets with gambling houses. His Catalonian model is the model of unemployment, taxes, insecurity, indoctrination in classrooms, mafias, gambling houses and illegal immigration. His model for Catalonia is the model of the Raval, whose neighbors beg us to return their neighborhood. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia deserves something much better than you, I told you a few weeks ago, and that is why we are going to work to rebuild our land and we are going to restore the splendor and prosperity of past times. Another Catalonia is possible, despite you. A Catalonia where the conversation is not permanently of pardons or of the unemployment or of the taxes you impose on workers or of the prices of housing or permanent insecurity on the streets. It is Catalonia that most Catalans want and that is Catalonia that we defend from VOX, a united, free and prosperous Catalonia. A Catalonia with quality jobs and decent wages, which attracts businesses, new jobs. A Catalonia without abusive taxes, with security of the streets, with freedom in the classrooms. A Catalonia with affordable housing for the younger ones, without gambling houses, as I said, nor okupas. Mr Aragonès, I assure you that sooner than later you will be a bad dream for the Catalans, a nightmare from which you will never want to return, a memory of a decadent past. We will work to the last drop of our breath so that when we speak to our grandchildren of Mr Puigdemont, Mr Junqueras, we can tell them that they were responsible for bringing Catalonia to the precipice, but that they lost and that the honored Catalans won. Every time you are less and every time you will have less support, because you do not want to defend or respect Catalonia; you only want yourself, you defend your privileges and you only represent your own. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.155.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy – A New Cycle to Win, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.156.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. President, just a few minutes before you started appearing with the title of the de-judicialization of politics, Girona held a company, a new one, to manifest during the protests for the sentiments in the heights of Jonquera and Salt. From here, we want to send a hug to him and to all persons awaiting detention to disobey the unjust subpoenas of a justice and a system, in the background, which continues to pursue political dissent, which continues to pursue the right to protest, which continues to pursue the right to protest, although some agree. And it is that the denial of the right to self-determination and the imposed political amnesia are two of the then sown during the Transition the fruits of which have been collected for the Spanish succeeding governments. From the 1980s to the 2000s, there was a balance between the policy of "converging fish and the assimilation of the PSC from the PSOE in Madrid". At the same time, Catalonia consolidated an autonomous peace based on the territorial division between the « socio-vergency, which jumped through the air as a model after the feeling of the State. And it is that the State, which could be able to fight for democratic and social guarantees, is radically the opposite: it is an institution exclusively for the protection of the privileges and powers of the oligarchy against democratic and majority rights. And we have a lot of examples, and we don't have to go too far, we can go a few weeks ago, because while the government of the state is trying to sell a new Roman pax with the pardons, it sends the law regulating the loguers to the constitutional under the jurisdictional pretext, which, in the background, it does is to try to make it obvious that the market ahead, that it expels its people from their homes, to the right to have a decent place to live. And that's repression, too. This is also the repression of the 78th Regime against the working people of this country. This is the conflict between Catalans that you are refusing to recognize, that of the elites against the popular classes, that of the elites who fill the buttocks at the cost of work and the sweat of thousands and millions of people in this country. In the year 2019, in the framework of the general policy debate, the Parliament approved, at the CUP's premises, a resolution that spoke or urged a national agreement for amnesty, self-determination and civil and political rights, and that raised the need to work and build the necessary consensus to achieve the amnesty of all persons persecuted for the exercise of political, civil and social rights, and to establish lives to realize the exercise of the right to self-determination as quickly as possible. And here we are. Two years have practically passed, a few Supreme Court sentences, more prosecutions to defend the right to self-determination, a pandemic, more prosecutions to defend the right to self-determination. And things happened for the middle, but there are always more cases to defend the right to self-determination. We spoke before the company was detained this morning in the Tsunami protests, but we are talking about more than three hundred people persecuted for this; we are talking about the government's companies persecuted for the Court of Auditors; we are talking about the drawings of people persecuted in the mobilizations in defense of the freedom of political press and the return of exiles or of people who are demonstrating in favor of the right to protest; we are talking about Joel, who is being asked to spend years in prison to help make the U of October a reality. That's the conflict and that's the repression that didn't end. As I said, we have proposed and we have proposed and there is an agreement to work for a national agreement for self-determination and amnesty, an agreement that is open to all political and social and cultural agents. But let's not be mistaken, it can't just be the pressure tool for a _dialeg table; it's also the tool to build the alternative when the State is refusing to recognize amnesty and is refusing to set a date for a self-determination reference. That's the reality. Because the national agreement for self-determination and amnesty must also be the instrument which I accompany and which I work for mobilization, the instrument which I work and which I accompany all those who seek a right guarantee, for those who want independence, but for those who do not want to have a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right of a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a right to a rightto The U of October was showing a path, but we must bear in mind that this national agreement must serve..., it must be based on the idea that the construction of an independent republic is a legitimate objective and that it is an objective every time more desired by citizens and citizens of the Catalan countries. And here it is the obligation of all democratic political and social forces, or that they are said to be democratic, to build and articulate the broadest consensus. But it is also true that October 3 also shows an essential dimension, an essential dimension for the success of our political objectives: the general vagueness as the phonenal instrument of struggle and mobilization. This general vagueness that there is who is going to pursue, because they continue to suppress those who came out on November 8 in the mark of a general vagueness that defended phonental rights. And here we have the Garrobo, the Month, and a lot of other people being administratively persecuted by the Squad Mosses to get out on the street and defend the freedom of prisoners and political prisoners. Therefore, as much as this space, this debate that must be sparked is clear that it must prepare the alternative, that it must prepare the answer. Because, for the time being, all that's in front of it is a wall; it's a wall that's been around for years, and it's legitimate that there's someone who wants to negotiate or, basically, make a dialog – sometimes it's a little bit of a deaf dialog – it's legitimate. But above all, we make it clear that it is not two years and then we have it; it is from now on that we have to work to secure all the rights of the citizens of this country: the right to housing, as we say, but also the right to citizenship; many other rights that the 78 rule is systematically denied to recognize. A few days ago we remembered that Eva Serra had died three years ago, and we want to remember her here today. She said: "Without rebellion there will be no history, and Catalan identity is a continuous manifestation of resistance and rebellion that explains that we are still following the beginnings of the 21st century. The historical identity of Catalans is not the story of some powerful but the story of some resistors; it is not the story of power but the story of some resistors. And here we are and here we go. And Eva Serra reminded us that the conflict is over and that it is manifested in multiple ways, especially in a context of a very strong economic and social crisis. And it is here, in this framework and at this very moment, that the reference and amnesty are broad consensuses, broad consensuses that are not becanviable, that are not becanviable for the State 2.0, that are not becanviable for questions trap that they do is to avoid the debate of the foundations: independence, yes; independence, no. And it's that independence doesn't fit into the Spanish constitutional framework, and we know that to get there, it's going to need to disobey, and it's going to be counter-powers. And this is where the debate for us should focus: how do we build these powers? Is the State the limit? Is this the state that's gonna mark our limit? Or do we build and work to generate the necessary mark for when it's time? And I end up with a message for those who are so worried about whether or not we want to subvert the constitutional order. Yes, we want to subvert it; we want to subvert it because a constitutional order that denies the right to housing, protects the mafia from electricity and protects corrupt bourbons that can subvert it from the very moment we report it. And we want to subvert it to create a more democratic framework, a broader framework in rights, a more democratic framework and a broader framework in rights for those who do not want to subvert the constitutional order. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.157.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.158.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you again. President, on the covid, two points very quickly, which is simply to insist on two ideas that I told him this morning at the control session. The first, we need more personal and more reinforcements for the primary, which is at the limit, and the second – important –, to open a dispatcher to investigate the private, if it is practicing, for if it is making abusive practices with the increase in the price of diagnostic tests in a situation of extreme need. And now I'm getting into the debate that we're dealing with now, I'll start by saying that it's taken away from me all the time, all the time you've had, and all the time Mr. Illa's had. And I'm saying it because it seemed more like it was a thing that belonged to another time, because in reality things were moving forward. And, therefore, you have had a hard time when, in reality, you are blowing winds of change. A new time is opened for the dialog, a new time for judicialization, a new time to allow the confrontation to stand back. And with that I'm not saying that we don't follow the consequences of the conflict's judicialization, which is obviously that we follow them. What I'm saying is that all the prayers, like the country, have the opportunity to put the rule of justice back together and not give it to politics. A space we should never have come out of. So, as I'm saying, it seemed like a tough time for Mr. Illa and Mr. Aragones to form more of the theater and speak to his, than in reality the moments that are going through the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. But, said this, I also want to say that if we believe in the dialog here, the first one we have to do is take care of it. And it has already been shown that pardons are useful and also that they are only a first step. And so now what we need is to keep moving forward. And for us, we already know that the next natural step is the reform of the Criminal Code, because the costs of not resolving the conflict situation that we suffer are inexhaustible. And we also need to be clear – and here I think it is also important that we notice this idea – that the results will not be immediate and that the deadlines do not lead us to anything, because when we start to generate expectations and then they are not complete, the only thing we do is generate frustration. We carry many years in a conflict that has deep ramblings and, therefore, we must make it clear that we will not resolve this conflict either with two, or with three, or with four meetings of the dial table. We'd like that. But I'm afraid, unfortunately, it won't be like that. And being aware of this reality is a condition of possibility to take this new time with more strength and with better conditions than until now because, in the end, of what is dealt with simply – that is not little – it is to have more sovereignty to take care of our people more and better. In this sense, I must say to you, President, that you do trust that your words are sincere when you say that you want to go through the path of the dialog but, as you know – you know – the words are carried away by the wind. And that's why we need a vagina that converts into facts. And that's why it seems to us that we focus on this dialog table as an aggregative tool, without party aspirations, and that it can be assumed as a collective success of the Catalans and the Catalans who make it their own. And following this logic, from Comú We could propose, we sent him a letter, we also explained when we had the face meeting, and today we want to insist again on five basic consensuses that exist in our country and from which we should leave this table of the dialog. The first – and certainly here we agree – is to end the judicialization of the political conflict. He commented that for us the next natural step is the reform of the crime of siege. And I do mean that if the Socialist Party continues to expand this reform of the Criminal Code, that we consider to be basic, that it is essential, not only for the independenceist but also for any citizen who wants to exercise his right of protest, of demonstration, this will be one of the points that we will bring to the table of the dialect, even though the Socialist Party wants to continue to expand this reform. Because if the object is to de-judicialize the conflict – I insist – the next natural step to pardons must be to reform the crime of sedition. The second point: recognition of Catalan national reality. And we know what the current correlation of forces is at the Congress of Deputies. But this can be done in various ways and can be done in phases. Why am I saying that? So why would we start from now on with a political declaration approved at the Congress of Deputies so as to recognize Catalonia as a nation, to arrive at a reform of the Constitution that, without going any further, the other day Minister Iceta recognized that it was right to reform it, and for us what is to be done is a specific additional provision to the Constitution because Catalonia remains recognized in its national singularity and its self-government will. The third, the third point that we see is that it is a consensus and that it must be brought to the table of the dialog: better self-government, armoring and competitive growth. It's clear, and I think that this is a question of a lot of people, that the current autonomic model is over and is out of date and that we need reforms that are needed to take care of – as I said – more and better of our people, and also to make this transformation, these transformations that we want to make into a feminist, green and social key in Catalonia. Therefore, developing skills that are not developing and I am referring, for example, to university scholarships, employment offices, work training, but also promoting the transfer of skills, which are now in the hands of the State and which we consider to be important that they are in Catalonia, starting with habitat, because it is certain that the Generality has skills in habitat, all that forms part of public housing is in the hands of the Government of Catalonia – and here we again insist that it is necessary to pull out a public park of habitat more powerful than we have, because it is laughable – but, on another side, the clauses of contracts are still in the hands of the State. Therefore, this should be transferred to Catalonia, but not only that: railway infrastructure or the gathering of migrants, too. In fourth place: a unique and solidary legacy for Catalonia, a new financing system that we have expired since 2014 and which is profoundly unfair. This is why we need a solid own history with the full development of the Catalonia Tax Agency, which is not happening now. With three objectives: the first is to achieve the full capacity of decision on the taxes of Catalonia, which would ultimately be to decide on our tax cyst. Why? So why do we want to have the economic resources to bring forward public, social, economic policies that allow us to – and I come back to insist on this idea – take better and better care of our people and, moreover, guarantee institutional loyalty without arbitrariness. And this system – and here I also want to hold a_second – this system must be consistent with the principle of territorial solidarity, because the people of the whole State have covered or can access the basic public services, but also with two principles more than they need to accompany it: the first is the principle of regularity, which means that the order of who brings and who answers must be maintained. I, second place, tax justice. I would not have felt that Catalonia is making an important fiscal effort and that other territories are not doing so. Therefore, I would not have felt this fiscal disincentive while Catalonia does make an effort. And lastly, the fifth point is that the agreement that obviously comes out of the dialog table must be voted for by Catalans and Catalans. And because these proposals can be built in a transversal way, they can truly be built with consensus, which, we insist, we are sure that they already exist on the street, must be worked from the table of parties. And, if you don't like the scoreboard is that you don't want it to form part of VOX, no VOX is invited. And that's it. Look, if this is really the problem, the solution is also easy. Why are we asking for the table of matches? So we're asking because the most opposition to the dialog table is from the government, and it's not new. And, therefore, that makes the consensus that needs to be worked out to bring to the table of dialogue between governments have to be worked from somewhere else. Because, if not, it's difficult, not to say impossible, to go through the dialog with its detractors attached to the copilot's seat. And I ended up, and I want to end up with an idea. The Catalan conflict is not just a related issue between Catalonia and Spain; at the basis of the Catalan conflict on the ground is the breach of the territorial pact of 78. All of us, or many of us here, know and agree who is responsible for the breach of this territorial pact of 78. But now, further away from clearing them, what we have to do is to found a new territorial pact, a new agreement. And here you don't have to be part of Catalonia, the Valencian country, the Balearic Islands and all those territories that are patenting the consequences of a centralist model, and not just centralist, but also recentizer, which now embodies in its very person Isabel Ayuso. Therefore, we work to weave this alternative for a new territorial pact where we all feel like it and can move forward in the self-government of Catalonia, because what we want – and again insist on this idea – is more sovereign to take better care of our people. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.159.0	Next, and, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.160.0	All right. Thank you, Madam President. Mr Aragonès, look, I tell you clearly after your speech: if you again violate the Spanish Constitution and trample on the fundamental rights of deputies or citizens, we will go to the Constitutional Court; if you again strike democracy, re-promote sedition, re-enact embezzlement, we will go to the Supreme Court; if any of you distract money and we have to quantify what, of the Administration, we will go to the Court of Auditors, and if someone fires streets, breaks drawers or threatens people and does all this under the auspices or in the context of independence, as if he does in any other environment, we will want the judges and the courts to act. Therefore, this is not judicialization, it is defending oneself from those who violate the laws. When a person violates the laws, those who are harmed by abusers have the right to seek the protection of judges and the courts. Whoever judicializes politics is then the one who violates the laws and abuses the rights of others, and the logical consequence is that it ends up in the courts, as the logical consequence that, if one steals public money... the logical consequence is that one has to determine how much and the Court of Auditors is competent to do so. Here is something very clear: who are asking for judicialization? The powerful centmilleurists. Against whom? Against helpless people who need judges and courts to defend them. This is it. We have a forked oligarchy that holds the power of autonomy and abuses that power. Our only limit, since the Spanish Government seems unwilling to put it, is, of course, the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court, the courts, the Court of Auditors and, ultimately, the framework of the rule of law, Mr Aragonès. It's very simple. If they want to de-judicialize politics, I tell them the formula: instead of harassing judges, they comply with the law. That's it, that's easy! It's very easy. Don't try to shield yourself shamefully. That fund of the 10_millions that you are now trying to make – and I see that Mr. Giró has been absent. I would have liked to look him in the face when I say this. Let's see, I mean, do you guys want to tell me...? Well, let's tell the truth – let's tell the truth. What the Court of Auditors does is not quantify sanctions or things... What the Court of Auditors does is that the judgement of the trial left it to determine the amounts that the leaders of sedition and embezzlement defrauded the Catalans. That's what the sentence says. Hey, look, point 9 of the fail. Go to the sentence, take the ruling and look at point number 9. And that was at the request of the State Attorney's Office with the support of the prosecution. The Supreme Court did not say: "It is so due. He said: "What you have defrauded is going to be said by the Court of Auditors. And the Court of Auditors is counting it, asking for that money to be paid. And that money the Catalans won't have to pay again, we can't secure it with Catalan money. If you are robbed of a hundred euros and the judge says, "You have been robbed of a hundred euros what the judge cannot do, that is to say, "And in case this gentleman doesn't pay you, now you take a hundred euros and vouch for him with a hundred euros in case he doesn't pay you. This is what you're trying to do. And this is absolutely intolerable. You're trying to shield yourself. What Mr Giró said: "We do not have to exercise politics with fear, well, of course, is that politics would not have to exercise politics with fear if we all complied with the legal requirements. We must exercise respect for the law and those who fail to comply with the law must think that it can have consequences. It's very easy for others to pay. When you've done what you've done, it's up to you to pay for it, oysters, then comes the bone cracker and the tooth grinder. And you, the centmilleurists of the process, because you don't want it to affect your heritage, prefer that whoever pays is the people who don't have a job, who struggle to get ahead, who are managed by you. That's it, that's what it's all about, no more or less. Well, listen, to me, actually, that's hard for me to admit. Look, the other day we were with Mrs. Ciuro, at the Councillor's appearance, the first appearance, and the spokesman for Esquerra Republicana, Mrs. Ana Balsera, said: "We also want to make an embodiment to the company Pol Serena, which has the next trial on July 18. He's been in prison for eight years for taking part in the 2019 general break. So, from here, these words and all our support and escalph. What I was saying to him: impunity. But who can believe – and I am sure that Mrs. Ana Balsera does not believe it, does not believe it, but says it – by participating in the manifestation of the general vagueness, eight years in prison. What will the angel have done? [[Rialles.]] What will the angel have done to get the prosecutors to ask him for eight years and for that trial to come forward? But no, the judges and prosecutors are evil and a gentleman you probably don't know anything about, because of being independent, because he is repressed by the judges and courts. And Mr Aragonès comes here to say that politics is being misled. Come on, man. Come on. It's childish. It's childish, in a rule of law. It's worse than childish: it's totalitarian. It's undemocratic what you're doing. Mrs Ciuró refused to say what any Democrat since Franco's death repeated over and over again on TV: "Hey, I respect court rulings. We learned this from the parents of democracy in Spain who have been alive since 1975, which was what a politician did when he was told about a court ruling, saying 'I respect it. Why? Because you're a politician and the others are the judiciary and you're the legislature and the executive. And that's it. And that's it. But here they make us commulgate with mill wheels. Risking the judiciary is undemocratic, Mr. Aragonès. Because the judiciary is the natural brake on the outbursts of an outbursted executive power. And it's the power... it's that mission of yours when the executive power unravels. That is why there is administrative law and that is why there is criminal law. That is why the administrative law that establishes the economic responsibility of public managers who distract money or who do so with manifest negligence. And it's administrative law. And criminal law is when you've already passed four villages and you've already entered the Criminal Code. And that's what any Democrat understands. You..., it's something amazing that you also quote me, in a context like the European one, in which we are witnessing something as abnormal as what happens in Catalonia..., and you quote the Council of Europe as always, with all the mixtures of half truths, lies, inaccuracies and bubbles with which separatism maintains its hegemony in Catalonia. Look, that report of the Council of Europe..., if you were pregnant here, if the Latvian deputy author of the report came, who did not want to see us and was only meeting with you, with Mr Torrent. Mr Torrent saw the Latvian deputy's face, I didn't. I don't. He didn't want to – he didn't want to. And I was then the leader of the opposition, the most voted party in Catalonia. He did not want, he made the report and then, because between the inaction of the People's Party in the Council of Europe, well, or of the people, and the incuria of the socialists, that report came forward that is not a judicial resolution. They don't visit us from Mandela, Rosa Parks, Luther King because they can't give us any kind of democracy lesson. And that's it. Mr. Illa, Mrs. Albiach told you what I thought too. What a theater you've done here with Mr. Aragonès. The fault of what we're suffering is for having given them their food to the separatists. Look, if Mr Aragonès said so at the outset: with the pardons it is recognized that the sentences were unfair. You have undermined our democracy and our judiciary for nothing, because they continue where they were. Look, I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Illa, if the Socialist Party doesn't do its duty from the government, the government has a duty to enforce the law as well, and when the government fails, the judges and courts must come in. And we, with all the political tools, will make these gentlemen comply with the laws. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And if I don't... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.161.0	Time's up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.162.0	[[I can't believe he cut me.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.279.0	Sir, sir... no, no. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.163.0	[[Did you cut my mic?]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.280.0	No, no, I told him time was running out and I stopped time on the eighth.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.164.0	[[No, no, no. It is mandatory that you give me warnings during an intervention.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.281.0	Yeah, and that's what I did.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.165.0	[[And he didn't make me any.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.282.0	No, I told him time's up. [[Widow's remorse.]] The weather's here and I've stopped it now. When I hit the microphone, I stopped the microphone, but I stopped time, right now, and I told him that time was running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.166.0	[[Okay, so I finish my speech.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.283.0	I'm done. I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.167.0	[[That the freedom of expression of the deputies... (Remor de veus.) It's just that in this Parliament we're getting used to...]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.284.0	I gave him the word to finish, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.168.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.169.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.170.0	Well, I was telling them that if the Government of Spain, if the Government of Spain does not defend legality, we will, if necessary, go to the judges and courts. It is precisely this that they want to avoid these gentlemen of the Government of Catalonia who make this appearance today precisely to show that they want to be above the laws, which are common to all citizens. Nothing more. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.171.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Mixt, the Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.172.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to begin this intervention by putting a thought to the totality of the concepts of the statement of the appearance: there is no conflict Catalonia versus Spain; what we have is a conflict between Catalonia and Catalonia between Catalans. You, Mr. Aragones, want to turn away and make the half of the Catalans invisible. And this is the real conflict. And don't talk to me about fifty-two per cent because when you were forty-seven in the polls, you said exactly the same thing. In any case, I'm going to go up, I'm going down, I'm almost in front of two practically identical halves that make it impossible and of a deep political dishonesty to talk about Catalonia-Spain conflict. In any case, the conflict that should be resolved, the reconciliation that should be fostered, is the reconciliation between Catalans, which see some of the Catalan public media is more necessary than ever. According to the question of its utterance: the law must be completed and it is now. There's no mass..., it's Sesame Barrio, or else, it's not a mass explanation, you can hear it perfectly: the law is to be completed, without any more additions. This is true democracy; the opposite is impunity and unprotect democracy. You're carrying a very dangerous message, and it's that the law doesn't matter, that the ruler can do it for his whims without any legal limit just because he has a majority parliament. This is the phonative feature – the lady Vilagrà, who also said before that she is a politician... – of authoritarian rules. In fact, what you approved on the 6th and 7th of September was the legal character of an authoritarian regime, because they made Mr Puigdemont the highest authority of the judiciary. And yet, Mrs. Vilagrà, you have had the bar today to criticize that the others do not defend the separation of powers. You with the law of transitoryity have appointed Carles Puigdemont the highest judicial authority in all of Catalonia and still speak of separation of powers! You do not want to complete the law, but it is good that thousands of Catalans, sometimes for legitimate reasons, are fined and punished every month for unacceptable reasons. You do not want to complete the law, but you do well to demand obedience from the citizenry, sometimes in a logical way, sometimes in an unacceptable way. Second question: despite the dialectic juggling games that you have done to not finish explaining the theme of the fund – and Mr. Giró has done exactly the same – what you are planting with this fund is a misappropriation of the misappropriation, a double assault on the Catalans. The embezzlers who are convicted of paying for their finances and legal defense, such as any catalá, any Spanish, any normal and current city. It's what's to be done. And, therefore, this issue is also primary, not more mass debate. In any case, I do have to add one thing, and it is that with the current situation of health needs and direct help to the sectors most affected by the pandemic – I am talking about restoration, oci, etc. – it is especially immoral the economic settlement that they are making. And let us warn – Mrs. Lorena Roldán has done this on behalf of our group at the control session – that we should go to justice to avoid it. Third question – this is a repetitive question and I will repeat the times you need, because if you repeat a thousand lies, I will repeat a thousand truths. And I'm also going to have to ask him for an explanation about a question: you've filled your mouth a lot – also when he was vice president – of the word "transparency as a leitmotif of his government action, and we're in a situation with his less transparent presidency even though with Mr. Torra's presidency." I'll explain. We have a Council for the Republic, a _table of dialogue and the indefinite paper of Mr Puigdemont without light and tachographs, degrading parliamentarianism, because it is out of parliamentary control, and, consequently, with opacity and lack of democratic quality. You do not want to answer a series of very concrete questions, which, of course, the government agreement that Mr Quim Torra did chair did. Mr. Torra was submissive in his agreement to govern voluntarily to the Council for the Republic and said that he was hierarchically over him, as at least he had the honor to say. It was an authentic beast, an authentic bogery, but at least it recognized it. Mr. Torra publicly acknowledged that he was under the authority of the president, according to him, legitimate, Carles Puigdemont. What will you do? But please answer, will you accept the authority of the Council for the Republic and of Carles Puigdemont over its own? Yes or no? Do not answer this question by questioning the democratic character of this government. But I would like to end this intervention by addressing Mr Salvador Illa. He assures Mr. Salvador Illa that he has been surprised by the aggressive tone of Mr. Aragonès. He assures Mr. Illa that he has been surprised that he has come up, that he has gone up to his beards. You couldn't have known, could you? Mr. Illa. You couldn't have known. You told us that with pardons there would come relaxation and reconciliation. Well, less bad, Mr. Illa, less bad. But the worst thing is that we were called fairies, intolerants, and birds of mischief to those we warned of what would happen today, and today it has begun to happen, that their pardons would not only bring distension, but that what they would immediately bring is an increase in tension. Quite a piece of paper, Mr. Illa; often a piece of paper, Mr. Pedro Sánchez. To the separatists, mimitos during these months and to the constitutionalists, who warned of what was going to happen from today, constant rejection. Today he has begun to see and to check his legacy, Mr Illa, but above all the legacy, the only legacy of sanchism: to subdue the rights of millions of non-separatist Catalan constitutionalists to endure two more miserable years in La Moncloa. What a shame, Mr. Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.173.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mr. Albert Batet has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.174.0	Very Honourable President of Parliament, very Honourable President of the Generality, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, very good morning to everyone. We are where we are, as Pedro Sánchez said two weeks ago in Barcelona, and obviously we are not where we want to be and where we want to be, because we are part of a state that does not respect our will to be, we are part of a state that needs Catalonia to decide its future with the country, that it stuns the citizens when they vote in a referendum, a state that undertakes and forces to exile political leaders to put ballots, a state that claims to ruin public servants to explain Catalonia to the world, a state that pursues more than three-thousand people to defend its ideals, to work in favor of Catalonia's independence. And the list could be endless, because the Spanish State is a repression picker that climbs straight and free without complex. We've seen it all these years. And with the complicity of the Socialist Party since the first day. There would be no jail and no exile if 155 had not been approved; if the Socialist Party together with the People's Party had not dissolved the Parliament of Catalonia, the Government would not have ceased, and therefore its members would not have lost out. You were perpetuating accomplices that the legitimate government of the U d'Octubre directly to the prison because they took the outlaw, and on November 2nd, five days after October 27th, you put them in prison with the prosecution and Mrs. Lamela to the National Court. Therefore, they are fully complicit in it. It is precisely for this reason that Europe is trying to curb the Spanish State. For more than three years and a half, the political and judicial pressure in exile has brought about the shame of the State, which does not respect the founding values of the European Union. In the judicial sphere, the work of exile is more than contrasted with the failure of the Euroorders of Mr Llarena, with the victory of President Puigdemont in Germany, at Schleswig-Holstein, the recognition of the acts of President Puigdemont and the Councillors Comín and Ponsatí, despite the Central Electoral Board and despite the Spanish parties in the European Parliament voting against the immunity of President Puigdemont, that is to say, the Socialist Party, the People's Party and the Citizens' Party ; despite the favourable feeling of Councillor Lluís Puig a Bèlgica, deputy of this Parliament, who is responsible for achieving the victories also in the European Parliament. But also in the political and institutional sphere, with positions such as that of the United Nations working group, such as Amnesty International, such as the recent resolution of the Council of Europe. We are convinced that the Spanish State would continue to pursue and repress with iron, with all impunity, if not for the internationalization task of exiles, with President Puigdemont in the foreground. In fact, that Pedro Sánchez announced the pardons on the very day of the resolution of the Council of Europe is not by chance, but by causation. The position of the Council of Europe means a historic setback for the Kingdom of Spain, it seriously harms its image; it is Spain's task to share human rights reports with Turkey – with Turkey – a country that is not a paradigm of respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens. But, above all, the resolution of the Council of Europe represents a threat to the totality of the Spanish State in the case against independence. Europe has taught Pedro Sánchez enough and has clearly said to him: "Not so, Mr. Sánchez; not so. If he wants to concord or retreat, the Council of Europe has given him a masterly lesson: freedom to political prisoners, return from exiles, the end of repression, a de facto amnesty. And it is obvious, therefore, that Pedro Sánchez did not grant pardons by conviction, he did not do so by conviction; he did so by obligation, by obligation and by the pressure he sees him from Europe. If not, why shouldn't it be done before? Because, of course, you've had some time of sobriety. They've been..., taking the government more than three years ago, and, listen, the Supreme Court's sentence came out late in the 19th; we're already in the summer of the 21st. And during this time what have they done? Only because of the obligation that has come from Europe to make this political situation, these pardons. And the more progressive Spanish government of history is now trying, in this way, to make up its drift. Obviously, we are glad that the suffering of new political leaders who should never have climbed, not a minute, the three-and-a-half years of prison they have suffered has ended, but the pardons are a personal solution, because the resolution of the political conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State will only be possible with amnesty and with the exercise of the right of self-determination. As we said before, pardons are only a face-to-face rent; otherwise, as it is understood that the State pardons political prisoners and the same..., no – no – the same week – the same week – claim the civilian death of thirty-four public servants of the Government of the Government of Catalonia? Today, Mr. Illa, with his intervention, he reminded me perfectly of Mr. Iceta, the interventions he was making here in the Parliament of Catalonia, and I must say that he has deeply disappointed me. One day they'll let you go, and the money's gonna ruin you, one of freda and one of heat, one of lime and one of sand. And that's what PSOE knows enough and years ago. The Court of Auditors is a court of accountability. And they're already telling me. Because we do not forget that the Court of Auditors is a court without courts, which issues judgments without courts. Made in Spain. In this sense, we celebrate the Government's assessment and arrest of the thirty-four public servants who had taken the lead, faced on July 21..., as Councillor Giró has well explained, which is excellent news for the Generality, that it is placed at the side of the affected and that it saves from civilian death, avoiding for the first time – for the first time – the embargoes of its habitations, of its estalves and of its nominees. And the Spanish State will also have problems defending this nyap at international level. The most obvious proof is the letter signed by thirty-three– thirty-three– Nobel Prizes, thirty-three, and prominent support economists came to Councillor Andreu Mas-Colell, who put the crit before this scandal. The only way Pedro Sánchez does a backlash with Catalonia is he does a backlash with democracy, not applying a hundred and fifty-five or with courts of accounts. Mr. Pedro Sánchez has already said that he will never accept a self-determination reference. But the conflict between Catalonia and the State is democratic, democratic respect, legitimate differences. You want to continue being part of the Spanish State. We don't want the independence of Catalonia. And that's the only way we can get it to the polls, so we can decide our future as a country and as a nation. Self-determination and amnesty are nuclear elements in the negotiating table. And this is the key back to the resolution of the conflict; this is the fifty-two-per-cent will of the Catalans that they expressed in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and for which it facilitated their investiture, President Aragonès, and this is the will and commitment of the Government. President, we need to act with maximum coordination and full force – with all the strength – and with all the tools we have at our disposal to exert this pressure on the government of the Socialist Party and the commons in the negotiation of the State. Because, as always, we can only gain independence with unity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.175.0	And then, in the aftermath of these first interventions, has the word Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.176.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, very honorable president, is very simple: to repression, amnesty and self-determination. These are not mantras that we like to repeat because yes, they are the citizens' demands that generate the most consensus in our country, here in Catalonia. And they represent a consensus because it means that a large majority of citizens bring them as solutions, and if they have to propose them as solutions, it is because there are some problems, a conflict. Unlike those who try to create the most extreme or even sometimes the PSC, there is no problem of coexistence in our country, but what has been the repeated will, supported by the ballots repeatedly, to want to decide our future collection; what has been so much a compromise with human rights and fundamental rights and such a high esteem for democracy, that we simply defend the ballots as an instrument to listen to citizenship and to make the decisions that our future must mark. Before that, if there has been a conflict here, it is because this repeated will, this firm commitment, this ideal with the ballot box, from the state, and hands that hand, always..., so it has not been listened to. Not only that, but it has been answered, this repeated desire to decide our future collection, it has been answered through the evil repressive arts, to try to win for non-democratic lives so that through the ballot boxes it is not possible to win. And certainly, we're here. Because when this Parliament approved the new Statute, it was a few years ago, with 120 votes in favour, of 135, then it was re-booted, re-routed and re-detailed on the part of the state's apparatuses. Because when this Parliament decided with an absolute majority to articulate the right to decide in 2014, to demand the transfer of competence in order to call a referendum, when we then again won a few elections and wanted to call a referendum on October 1, the State responded with democratic deficits and in this case with a step more still, with police violence, with the application of Article 155, with the impregnation of the political and social leaders of the process, with exile, with the orchestration of a general cause against independence. Because when, after winning the ballot box again on the 14th of February with more than fifty_percent of the votes and having won, therefore, the last electoral cycle since independence, the State returns to respond with its tentacles, therefore, with the judicial process and now acts through the Court of Auditors, the Court of Auditors. And you, before, Mr. Illa, were talking about disappointments? See all this history of the state's response, which has only been able to respond to this repeated will of the citizenry on the basis of repression and judicialization? In Catalonia, therefore, there is a conflict, which has a political nature, which some have wanted to bring to justice, to say it in a fine way, to resolve it – so that is what the opponent wants to say, to win – but we know that he only has a solution, that it is democracy and less democracy. And, therefore, what we propose is very simple – before I said it – to listen to the citizenry. And what are the great consensuss, what is it that says citizenship in a majority way to our country? That to resolve the political conflict that ended repression, and that goes through an amnesty. That to resolve the political conflict must stop denying the reality, and it is that the political conflicts are resolving by voting, through the ballot boxes, as they did to Scotland, as they did to Quebec. And, therefore, we do not have ballot boxes. I don't know if anyone here has a ballot box, we don't. And that is why we defend that the solution sure that it cannot pass through the Court of Auditors, but that it must pass through the ballot boxes; the solution cannot pass through exile or prison as it had been until now, but it must pass through the ballot boxes; nor can it pass through more than three thousand defendants and persecuted persons but it must pass through the ballot boxes. For amnesty and the ballot box. It's very simple. Listening to the citizenry also means being aware and recognizing that independence won the elections for fifty-two_per_cent to the Parliament of Catalonia the last elections of the 14th of February. But those of us who have been independent of it before we were independent of it are democrats, and therefore we do not want to impose independence on anyone, we do not have enough to win it with fifty-two per cent to impose independence, but we want to be able to decide it, we want to be able to vote it, we want to be able to put the future of our country at the hands of the citizens of all, of all the people of this country. And we're not the only ones who say that. Three of every four Catalans, and this brings back the CEO, are in favour of being able to vote for our future in a given referendum. Three_of_each_four Catalans are also against repression, data from the same CEO. Even those who are in favour of non-independence, of not reaching a Catalan republic, in this case, fifty-three per cent of those who would vote do not in this consultation defend the right to hold this referendum granted, and more than half of the voters of the PSC also agree to be able to hold it. So, clearly, the reference is the least common denominator of Catalan politics, because it is the instrument that applies to everyone, it is the most inclusive and it generates the most consensus and, moreover, it is possible. It is only because of the political will and to refer to the international treaties and the political right card that the State also signed more than forty years ago. It is from this conviction that repression can never be the answer and that we will obviously fight it with all firmness and solidarity. And that... it's already clear that the prison won't snort the ideas or that every time they derail and want to bring the conflict to justice, we'll try to place it another time in the political table. It is from this conviction, therefore, that we defend the dialect, the negotiation to find this democratic solution. We don't intend to give the flag of the word, the flag of the dial to anyone. In fact, our faith is that verb as genuine and Catalan as it is to reason: "Use reason. Talk listening to the other one. Discuss and attempt to reach conclusions in a rational, constructive manner. A verb that, therefore, does not exist with the same nuances in the castle, perhaps its being for something. We have an opportunity, therefore, now, in our abyss, and we do not want to take advantage of it. The challenge of those we defend precisely these great consensuss, amnesty and self-determination, is..., the challenge we have now, therefore, at this time, in this context, is to coordinate ourselves to the maximum and aggregate the maximum strength to defend these proposals that generate so much consensus, between a seventy-five and a eighty-eight percent, at the negotiating table before the Government of the State. That is why, President, we make available to the country to help articulate this national agreement for self-determination and amnesty to forge these consensuss. And a message, in this sense: if it is true that without force it is possible that the dialog does not work, it is also certain that a way of having more strength is justly bet for the dialog, for the dialogue and negotiated way, because it helps us to gain credibility and legitimacy both internally and internationally. And it's just in the international arena from where the main law firms arrive in the state and from where we know that the justice that has not yet been found will come. The past June 20 was the Council of Europe, it has already been mentioned enough, so the Council of Europe made visible again the democratic shame that the Spanish State supposes for the countries around it. And even though they tried to stop it, neither the tests nor the pressures managed to stop what is an obvious irrefutable all-round: there were political prisoners and they had to free themselves; so that the charges against the exiled people are withdrawn and, therefore, that they can return; the U of October there was no violence on the part of the citizenry and is therefore proposed through dialogue and democratic resolution. It is the way that this Council of Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, marks for us. It would therefore do well, in its conjunction, the State, to listen to Europe and to stop setting itself up, above all its judiciary, to the rights and freedoms and to the most basic democratic guarantees. Because, in fact, taking the path of repression, which is what has passed the last years the Spanish State, taking the path of authoritarianism only serves to pay for the land where the extreme right and speech of hatred later grows. It's true that a few days ago pardons have been produced. Welcome. We're glad to be able to keep company and company between us again and, therefore, that they're out of jail, where they should never have entered. In fact, in a full democracy there should not be a single moment. We believe that pardons can help, they can provide guarantees in the negotiation process, but pardons are not the definitive solution, because repression continues. There are exiled people, politically prosecuted people, if you were to be fine-tuned by the prosecution, now you are being re-defined by the Court of Auditors, with this obsessive persecution of people to do what they have all the right to do, external action. We are, therefore, before pure chastity, pure vengeance and even perhaps, who knows, a warning for future navigators. What, therefore, is the answer to the current situation again? So just amnesty to end this economic repression, to end the causes that are at the number 13, number 18, of the High Court of Justice. And while, president, and before this barbarity, all the solidarity, certainly, and all the support to the government for this mechanism, this complementary foundation to defend public servants. Let's end our..., with closing in on our willingness to work hard enough [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , to work in a compromise way, to forge these great consensuses that we know are the solution to the political conflict that exists in our country. And that's amnesty, that's self-determination and we know it's inevitable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.177.0	You're done with the word, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.178.0	Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.179.0	Now, one time they've all intervened... yes, Mr. Martín Blanco, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.180.0	See if I'm out, president. [[relays]] in Article 90 for an observance, for a faithful observance of the Rules, of Article 233, concretely, which speaks of the rules of conduct to the debate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.181.0	Pardon me, but Article 233, which speaks of rules of conduct in the debate, is the power of whom directs the debate to apply it. What observation do you want to make about this article?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.182.0	On this article, the pronunciation, the pronunciation of inconvenient expressions against the decòrum.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.183.0	The decorum, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.184.0	Against the decorum, yes. Come on, if you'll just give me a moment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.185.0	But that's what I have to consider to pick up or donate the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.186.0	I ask him for his consideration and it is you who decides whether to give me the word or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.187.0	I'll give you 30 seconds to tell me why you should apply this article.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.188.0	So, look, to me really that Mrs Vilalta spoke of the verb "raisonar in català, of which I seem very good that she feels coveted and proud..., but to say that it must be for something that the castle does not have an equivalent of the verb "raisonar, to me it seems really vomit. It seems to me entrepreneurial that in a parliament like this is said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.189.0	Mr. Martin White. Mr. Martin Blanco, it's been 30 seconds, but it's obvious that simulating languages is not a counter-expression to the tenor of this chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.190.0	He also said that Spanish speakers are less democratic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.191.0	Mr. Martín Blanco...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.192.0	It's impregnable...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.193.0	Mr. Martín Blanco, you don't have the word. [[Pause.]] Thank you. At this point, all the parliamentary groups of the chamber have intervened, he has the word to make his reply the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.194.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members... I would therefore like to dedicate the minutes of this reply to be able to make some reflections that I would like to share with all of you, wouldn't I? The first is about the concept of the dialog that we have to face in our own months, and very intensely in our own weeks. I have a firm commitment to dialogue and negotiation; I will always be, even when there are those who do not want it – always. In any case, I think you have to start with a few premises. In the first place, the Rau dialog, also the dialog within Catalonia, cannot replace the election result; we cannot replace the election result of the 14th of February, cannot adulterate. So, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk. Secondly, an honest dialog is the one that does not exclude any proposed. Because, of course, if the question is: "Listen to me, let's talk, let's talk, but on the inside, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, No, no, That is to say, he must hear all the proposals; I am willing to listen to them all. But one thought: maybe the proposal you're proposing is also divisive, huh? Mr. Illa. Because, for some reason, he didn't get the majority in this Parliament. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Maybe... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Can I talk or not? Because I think it's essential in the dialog that when one speaks the other escorts. I listened to them carefully and didn't interrupt them. Thank you. It is therefore not possible to exclude any proposal. Then, if the question is to say: « – Miri, here we all have to talk, we have to do... – All right, yes, yes, yes, yes. Catalonia is a diverse country, but its proposal, no, because it is divisive. – Ah, and why is it divisive? "Oh, because you only have fifty-two percent." I have the twenty-two and twenty-three, but mys is not divisive. So, come on, I think there's a logical problem here that we should be able to land. It is therefore not possible to exclude any proposal. What I'm saying is, let's deal with the procedures. In fact, now that it is about the Diplomacy and the Court of Auditors, I remember that in one of the debates these – that you must be persecuted and there must be included the coffee that was expensive, that they invited us –, in a debate with a member of your group, present in this chamber, and to the Bureau, more concretely, we discussed before foreign deputies about the different options. And I remember perfectly well that day I gave them: we agreed on the procedures. Is that to say, with what procedures and under what conditions do you consider it legitimate that this country should become an independent state? Because if entry is no longer the case, then I think the dialog..., what you are looking for, then, is to silence the positions of this majority in favor of fifty-two percent. And I believe that I also pose as the condition that there must be all parliamentary groups, when we clearly have an extreme right in this Parliament that will burst any dialog, I think it is really not intended to be an honest dialog. In the end, the discussion is: Catalonia is a political subject that can freely decide its future or not? I've always thought so. The present State did not have my vote in the referendum, because I thought it was insufficient, but from the moment that the citizens of Catalonia decided to do so, it became my State. Are the opponents of independence prepared to agree to a procedure? Because this is the formula, I think, we agree on a procedure. And, truth be told, we haven't made a dialog. That is to say, in forty-seven days we have met with all the parliamentary groups that have a democratic vocation; we have met..., we have recovered bilateral relations with the Barcelona Assembly, with the General Council of Aran, with the President of the Government of Spain – we have agreed on the date of the bilateral and the date of the dialogue table –; we have met with economic and social agents, employers and trade unions. Forty-seven days. So, there's no such thing as a dialyx. If basically what we've done is talking these days. And if the claim of this table of parties is to undermine the legitimacy of the position of the Generality because it does not have a unanimous consensus of the Parliament of Catalonia, I think we are mistaken. Because I do not ask the President of the Government of Spain to come with a consensus of the Congress of Deputies, I do not ask, because it is a government that is chosen with a few majorities, it is a government-to-government negotiation and, obviously, it has all the legitimacy to come to the negotiating table and make its layout. He doesn't ask me to agree with the People's Party. Therefore, I believe it is obvious that the Government of Catalonia has all the legitimacy to make its settlement. And he said to me: "You may not be sure of the plans to face it in a table of matches. Certainly, thanks for claiming President Torra. I believe that this is a novelty, that you had not done so until now, and therefore thanks for claiming President Torra and the meetings that were produced in this table. But we are convinced of our plans. In fact, if you're convinced of yours, we'll vote. And, if so convinced, obviously they would be willing to convince a majority of Catalonian citizens. Therefore, I think we need to make a dialect in Catalonia – yes, obviously – but it cannot replace the electoral mandate, it is not possible to exclude any proposal and to allow it to be an inclusive dialect. The proposal for a reference is one that allows everyone, independent and non-independent, to pronounce. The problem is that maybe it's the result. But if it's tea for which the citizenry of Catalonia wants, then it's tea for dialogue and agreements. Therefore, the proposal for reference is the proposal that allows everyone to vote, defend, and that citizens decide. In any case, VOX's intervention can be summed up in that his problem is that we have won the elections, and independence has won. And from here on out, we get all the legitimacy. But we won, and you can't change that. And, therefore, listen to me, from here, continue in your line, continue with your threats, but we will not be put to rest, in this sense, because we have the majority. And we'll do it, listen to me, with the will to come to terms, obviously, with everyone. With you, obviously, there is no margin for agreements, as you are well aware. The intervention of Candidature of Popular Unity. I agree that the national agreement for self-determination and amnesty cannot only be a tool to collect what the Government has to bring to a negotiating table. It has to go much further, it has to be approached, it has to be approached together and, therefore, totally agreed that it should not be limited to this. But I do think it is essential that, as long as we face one of the toughest negotiations – I think the most complicated, because it will be the most ambitious – that the Generality has faced, it is good to be able to go there with all the support and, as a matter of fact, if there is any ground on which we agree in addition, that it is amnesty and self-determination, to go there with all the strength to defend it. A reflection for the commons. He referred to the correlation of forces. He says: "Now there is no correlation of forces. And my question is: to the State, if there is now a coalition government, PSOE and Podemos, that there had never been, with a majority of the investiture that includes Catalan independence but also Basque independence, that includes sovereigns of the State, if this correlation of forces does not allow us to advance sufficiently, who will allow us to advance? Because I can't imagine one that's better than this, as much as possible in the next few years. So let's take advantage of it now and put all the ambition in it – put all the ambition in it. For what you do to Ciutadans, well, Mr Carrizosa, you have a confusion with respect to the Court of Auditors. That is to say, the endorsements that are now required, the bonds that are required to be deposited are not the endorsements of civil liability arising from the Supreme Court's judgment. These are the endorsements required for a report by the Court of Auditors on external action. Therefore, they are not money that is claimed for a firm sentence. So it's two different things. And, therefore, what we have denounced with insistence today is that there is no firm feeling. Therefore, they are of absolutely different procedures. When someone is looking at the repressing of the moon, it's likely that it costs to identify them. We patim, we're pretty clear what everything is. And then I think we must also be able to tell the truth here, respect the rapporteur of the report to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I have been ratified by different parliamentarians and parliamentary officials who were there at that time. He came to Parliament and he wanted to meet in a meeting with all the parliamentary groups, and you and the People's Party didn't want to go there. But don't say she didn't want to meet you, but, let's just say that the feeling is the opposite, it was you who didn't want to participate in this meeting. Listen to me, they are free to participate in meetings they want, but in any case we are honest, because he is a person who is not here and who, therefore, cannot beat him, but we have confirmed..., there were members of the Socialist Party present at that meeting and I suppose they should explain their point of view to respect. The People's Party always asks the same question, about my authority to whom I subdue it. So to whom has attached my trust, that is this Parliament. And I've already put it back five times, in various debates, and every time I ask myself. I suppose it's a rhetorical use that you have to allow him to fill the speeches and, well, get out here with a little more grace, but... [[the President of the Generality]] Listen to me, I... my limit is this Parliament's confidence that it's the one who stuck it to me in the investiture, and it's not another, and it's Parliament, which I'm submissive to. And finally, for Junts and Esquerra, I think we have these great consensus in favour of the self-determination referendum and the amnesty, which we must defend; that we must do so with the firmness of knowing that we have after an electoral majority that was clearly expressed on the 14th of February; that we must also be aware that it will be of a very high complexity, and that we must go with all the will to win. And it's not just a question of going to see the difficulties, because we already know that now, but we're going to try to break down the barriers that we find ourselves in. And, therefore, here we must go with all our strength, and I am convinced that the consensus we have been able to forge us will give us much more strength to move forward in our objectives, because what we have defended is, as Mrs Vilalta said, simple, but also clearly ambitions, that is that this country decides and that no one goes to prison to defend that country's right to decide. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.195.0	Then, and for five minutes, representatives of parliamentary groups can exercise their right to reply. Therefore, in the first place, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units per Avançar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.196.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Fídies was the most famous sculptor of Greece, of classical Greece. He lived in the fifth century BC, contemporaries of Pericles, the great Greek ruler. His sculptures were so surprising to his contemporaries that they thought they were on the move. And Plato, in one of his dialects, I don't remember what – perhaps the very honorable president, who knows better than I classical literature 'll remind me then' – mentions in one of his dialects..., one of the protagonists refers to one of his contradictors saying: « I don't know where you are. Your arguments are like the Fídias statuses, it's constantly moving. And this happens to me a little bit with you, I don't know where we are anymore: if we are culminating in independence, if we have to vote again, if we have voted and not served... I don't know where we are. I'll tell you where we are, where I think we are, huh? We are opening a new time in Catalonia, and you have a key role in this new time in Catalonia, because he is the President of the Generality of Catalonia, who has obtained the confidence of this chamber, and still does not win the elections, and I respect that. And I'm asking you to be president of all the Catalans, all the Catalans and all the Catalans, and to help us open this new time in Catalonia. I believe that the Government of Spain, the Council of Ministers, took an important, risky step. No one escapes by listening to the interventions of some groups in this Parliament or seeing the political debate of some of the Members. Risk, the result of conviction, not of any need. I don't care what they say, I don't care. I'm on top of this, I don't care. I'm interested in opening a new time in Catalonia. I'm interested in this, and I think it's taken a step. I ask you that the Government of the Generality is Mogi, that you are Mogi. He asks you to open a dialog table in Catalonia. President, a table of dialogue is not to meet with the chairmen of parliamentary groups. That's not it. That's very good of you to do. He'd be fine if he'd meet with the head of the opposition. But it's the same; if it doesn't, it's the same – yes, I say it like no opposition – but it's the same, it's the same, it's the same. A dialog is different, and you know it – and you know it. And I didn't follow myself or my group who put up a two-year term. This will be difficult, of course it will be difficult. A lot. And slow. But in Catalonia we have different visions and we have to agree, in Catalonia, and also the governments of Catalonia and Spain. But now I will tell you something that you know perfectly well: neither the Government of Spain nor the Government of Catalonia – I suppose you do not have this intention – can make any decision that it does not correspond to its mark of action. The Governor of Spain has the mandate he has. And there are things that the Government of Spain cannot decide. I may have political will, but it is not up to him to decide anything. You have a mandate, like you have as President of the Generality. Because its natural legitimate nature is that it is the majority..., the confidence it gained from this Parliament, which did not count on that of my group, but it is also the State and the Constitution, which make it possible for you to make transcendental decisions for the lives of Catalans. This is the main message I wanted to give. And some very quick considerations, because, if not, the president will call our attention. A little more Tarradellas. We don't make a fool of ourselves. You didn't do it – you didn't do it – but we wanted it when we said that the funds... that, yes, the Government of Spain decided to give to the autonomous communities..., we don't know, that. I remember here when he was talking about "Spain doesn't give us cows, now, when they arrive, we don't mention them. If they come from Europe. If that's... we don't do each other any favors. In the end, the clear money that comes from the citizens, the citizens and the debt – and the debt – because all the states – all, all, all, all – have gone into debt, and they have done well – all – in order to be able at a determined moment to stimulate our economies and that no one is left behind. Two. There's an attitude problem. I see it to you with the wish... And that's good – and that's good – because we have to make bold decisions, but we don't over-employ ourselves. Otherwise, we lose sight of the principle of reality. There is a legal framework and it must be respected. Can you change it? Yes, all together – all together. And the voice of my group must be heard, and the voice of the People's Party must be heard, and the voice of everyone who the citizens of Catalonia have voted must be heard. Last thought. It's very important to fit Catalonia into Spain, but it's also very important day by day: the pandemic, the expansion of the airport, the renewal of Formula 1 – Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain, Montmeló – the European foundations... They're more concerned about who decides not what we decide to do. With all this you know that there is a policy that is more extensive, at the moment you did not want to use, but here it is. I'll call him back. And two very quick final considerations. I don't claim President Torra. I am far removed from your political thinking, but respect. I respected him when he was president, I dealt with him in my role as minister of health and respected him, as well as being longed for by the defense. I don't resell it, respect it. They have referred – and I thank you – to my intentions, many porters. Don't give me time to answer. I just want to say one thing to Mr. Alejandro Fernández of the Popular Party. Perhaps the Government of the Generalitat is not moving, but Catalonia is moving. The latest ICPS survey says that only one twenty-three_per_cent see a solution with a reference and that most want to address the issue of financing. Approach him. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.197.0	Thank you, Mr. Illa. Thank you. Next, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.198.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I am pleased, Mr Aragonès, that you are aware that there is absolutely no margin of agreement with us. Indeed. Because we will never sit down and dialogue with totalitarians disguised as democrats, with embezzlers or with people like those who make up their government, that all they intend to do is further undermine the well-being and prosperity of Catalans. And yes, I will have the deep honor of being the only parliamentary group president of Parliament who does not have the photo with you in your office, because I have already said it, and it is evident, in this Parliament and in Catalonia, that only VOX remains as a frontal opposition to its totalitarian and sectarian policies. I was talking about dialogue. Look, you will hear me repeat it throughout this legislature, which I already wished it would be short, I hope not more than two years, but dialogue on national unity, never. National unity is neither discussed nor voted, it is defended, Mr Aragonès. And I already know that this can cause you some rash or tension, but it's our constitutional order, it's our rules of the game. And I assure you that, as much as you repeat it and lie to your palm trees and make demonstrations on September 11th, go here or go there, you will never be able to break national unity. [[Some applause.]] Not as much as they associate with a traitor as Mr. Sanchez can be. Therefore, the only dialogue that must take place in Catalonia and Spain, and especially in Catalonia, is the one that faces the one and true conflict, which is the social conflict that you have created over the last decades. A social conflict that, for example, leads us to have to address, for example, the 20,000 barracks that we have in Catalonia, the 73,000 Catalans who are waiting to receive the dependency benefit or the more than 230,000 Catalans who are waiting to be cared for by a medical specialist. These are the real needs of Catalans and are the real problems that should be copping the political debate in Catalonia, and not their ideological delusions and their permanent will to generate that attempt, because... – I say«I try because, I repeat, they will never succeed – to break national unity and our coexistence. You have raised, as if it were a sacrosanct, the pamphlet of the European Council's report. But, Mr Aragonès, it is a sectarian, phony report and that the only thing you intend to do is to boost our national sovereignty. And that is why from here we tell European bureaucrats to respect our national sovereignty and to stop meddling in our beloved Spain. [[Some applause.]] Because you know as well as I do that this report, paid by you to Mr Latvian, who walked around here as if it were a puppet, is not sustained from any political, legal or procedural point of view. You know it perfectly well. It's a pamphlet that all you intend to do is justify the pardons of traitor Sanchez. That is indeed the report of the European Council. And, finally, I wanted to say to the CUP representative, and I can also extend it to Mr Aragonès and the rest of the members of the Government, you, and you have said it clearly: "Yes, we are going to subvert the constitutional order. Well, that's fantastic. I give advice to all those who have the will to subvert the constitutional order: go pack your bags, take good books because they will all end up in prison, which is where some should not have come from. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.199.0	The words "Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle for Winning, are added.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.200.0	Well, thank you, President. After everyone's speeches, President, what remains clear is that the state mark is to end the conflict without resolving it. It is obvious the resolution for which Mr. Illa poses with which the case of Catalonia and Spain must be resolved on the basis of the great infrastructures – the 78th rule in pure state – but also before those who speak of the correlation of forces, who in the background speak of the correlation of forces in Madrid, not of the great consensus of the country. Why do we have to do when there is a great deal of consensus here in the country to regulate the price of the lloger, but in changing the correlation of forces in Madrid you say no? What is it? We don't regulate the logger here, because the correlation of forces in Madrid doesn't exist. Sad, and I say it with deep sadness, having seen how finally the great consensus of the country goes according to the correlation of forces that can or cannot be legislated at the Congress of Deputies. That is why we continue to insist that to resolve the conflict that is changing the mark and changing the mark means promoting a democratic revolution. I'll take the debate from here. I've been asking him before. You're setting up some country targets that you want to see with reference and amnesty. How do you create the conditions before this reality? Again I ask: Is the State that marks the limit or is we prepared, we set ourselves to work to use all the tools that we have in the abst? The ones you defend, but also the ones you defend from others. There's another element we're worried about. We are concerned that there is once again an apparent total confidence in the European institutions and in a certain will that it will be the European institutions that will change the will of the Spanish Government. A deep confidence in this idea of liberal democracy that is neutral in the face of conflicts. We have seen in history how liberal democracy is never neutral in the face of conflict. And it is that, in addition, this idea of liberal democracy is grieving, it is grieving with the rise at international level of the Faixist proposals that are at the service of the ruling classes and so long as here we also have to pay attention and attention to the hour we talk about conflict resolution, when we talk about self-determination, when we talk about the need to decide the future release of this people. Therefore, we insist. The question is to articulate a political power that can confront the State, that can confront it from those rights that here they are of country consensus despite the fact that the correlation of forces in Madrid does not exist. And that on the basis of this confrontation and therefore on the basis of this guarantee of rights here, let us sustain a political momentum sufficiently powerful that it is the one that makes inevitable or that can force the State to accept a self-determination referendum as the final culmination. We're not starting from the fact that we're only forcing it with the dialog. And to go through with it. We're also concerned about the feeling that this is a debate of a non-real negotiating scener. It is not a debate with the attention that we understand that it would involve a real negotiation leading to a break with the 78th rule, but that despite the fact that there is some higher profile or that there is some more uplifting word, it is more likely than a time of the past. And this is where we run the risk of turning self-determination into a fetish, which is converted into an eternal horizon, as when here for many years there were those who defended self-government and used it as a future horizon. Self-determination is a consensus of a country with a broad spectrum of people that defence is a necessity not by whims, but in order to guarantee rights and to work for a fairer society and a free, just and social country. It is here that the National Accord for Self-Determination and Amnesty is able to work, but here it is also here that the Government works to advance in the guarantee of these rights, that they are the ones who will also advance us to self-determine us completely and so build the country that I gave, free. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.201.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, the deputy Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.202.0	Thank you, President. Yes, Mrs. Reguant, correlation of forces. Correlation of forces here and there, because I want to say that if in place of having nine deputies the CUP in thirty-five have accepted the same investment agreement with the current government, which I kept, for example, the Hard Rock? So no. Surely if you had thirty-five or no new ones, then you would have the presidency of the Generality and we would have an anti-capitalist government. It's what's going on and there's a correlation of forces. And now to Mr. Aragones, of course, correlation of forces, if there is a correlation of forces, better, to the central government, and it is that We can and In Common We can have more deputies, more deputies, more ministers than the Socialist Party. Correlation of forces, whether we like it or not. Going to disjudgment. We all know that the resolution of the conflict will not be quick, it will not be easy and that at least now, because if not, it would be lying, to say the opposite would be lying, now it will not be maximum. You know that. Precisely, it comes back: for the correlation of forces. And I think it's important not to generate expectations that didn't pass. And I think it's also important to say that it can move forward and that the only thing we can't do is keep our arms down. And, therefore, I insist, to advance in sovereignty and to take better care of our people. Referendum? Yeah, so much. You know that we have always defended the reference, unlike you; we have always said it was the tool. Now, referring yes and dialog too. One thing can't go without the other. And that's what I'm saying because you know that some members, who are supposed to be part of the national agreement that you're proposing, don't believe in the dialog. And for that, I insist, table of parties, table of parties mainly with those forces that have always defended the dialect. And I return to the national agreement, the national agreement for amnesty and self-determination. It sounds pretty good to me, but it's just that it can't be an excuse not to call the game table. It's that easy. And in the end, this national agreement seems more like an organ of coordination of the independenceist space – to see whether you finally approve the assumptions of the central government or not – than really cross-cutting consensus in the Catalan society to resolve the political conflict. And I'm done. I would like to remind you of the five points that we consider to be the starting point for the table of the dialect: judicialization, national recognition of Catalonia, competition growth, self-sufficiency and solidarity, and an agreement to be voted for by Catalans and Catalans. He insists again, if he wants to cross the path of the dialog, he listens well to the travel companies, and for that table of parties. And lastly, and it's also important, you're leaving Catalonia out of the Mediterranean alliances, and already here, we'll work with the Balearic Islands, with the Valencian country to defend the common causes: Mediterranean corridor, European foundations, financing system and so many common causes that we have to work with, precisely, to deal with this centralist and re-centralizer model that we are imposing on us from Madrid. Therefore, as long as Catalonia is on the scale of the rest of the population of the State, especially all those who are also harmed by this current model, and we work in this Mediterranean alliance to have a plurinational, fair, green and feminist republic. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.203.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Lord Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.204.0	Thank you, Madam President. Look, there are reasons why politics sometimes mixes with the courts, and that's when intolerance and abuse in politics nests and someone has to defend themselves and someone has to defend us. And I am telling you this because we have had an example in this debate of abuse and supremacist comments. Precisely, the person... of the spokesman Mrs. Vilalta. Yes, Mrs Vilalta, you have said that in Spanish we do not have a verb equivalent to the Catalan verb "enraonar" and that for something it will be. Well, that comment is clearly supremacist in our opinion. Yes, because it supposes that there is an atavic Catalan dialogue in front of an atavic Spanish oppressor. And, let's say, that conception of the Spanish and Catalan is deeply reprehensible in a democracy. Here we are used to talking about wild beasts, gnors, those who shout and put resources. Mrs Vilalta, that kind of speech which, for some reason, will not be in Spanish is precisely the foundation of many of you on this bench here, on the extremist bench, is precisely the basis for you to do many of the things you do. And, listen, see the dictionary – see the dictionary – that rooting is exactly the same as "talking, talking, chatting, discussing and expressing oneself with the word. And that's it, it's the same thing. Will your aversion to bilingualism prevent you from having clear semantic equivalences, Madam President, between the words in Spanish and Catalan. That's probably why. And, well, that's why I'm telling you not to talk about misjudgmenting us. Don't talk about de-judicializing when there is a ruling oligarchy with power, with all the political and economic power and poorly disguised supremacist ideas that come out between the debates and on social networks themselves, among their correspondents, the democratic people, free, without complexes, as Catalan as you say that out there no and that we are not going to let you abuse us and signal us and refer to the Castilians..., the Catalans and Spanish..., to whom we feel Catalans and Spanish as people that we don't understand or that we don't have verbs that designate what dialogue means. No, they won't get us to be submissive to you; they won't, Mr. Puignero, no. And Columbus was certainly not Catalan and certainly not Santa Teresa either. And so many other things, you know? [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, Mr. Illa, I insist: with insults nationalist separatism is re-armed while constitutionalism, ordinary and ordinary people are disarmed. That is why this plenary - that is why this plenary - is going to disarm us - is going to disarm us. Look, I'm afraid the real damage to these behaviors and this broad sleeve with those who want to put the boot on our necks will be seen in the medium and long term. I announce here that Ciutadans, Citizens has already asked, through our spokesman, Edmundo Bal, that the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance intervene the accounts of the Generalitat of Catalonia, put – since – you are trying to allocate money to pay to people who have spent it from the public treasury, and that is obvious that we do first what can be done in a democracy, which is, listen, to go to the institutions. Government of Spain, look, here this has already been done with Rajoy, this is through the law of budgetary stability, there is no need of 155. And then, agree something, agree a tool, Mr. Illa, tell Mr. Pedro Sánchez, to see if you to prevent this from being judicialized, that Mr. Sánchez has to appeal a decree, because we already see the talent of the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia and take that remedy. And you know what I'm telling you? What, then, do you know what you could do? Well, appeal, prosecute. Or when do you resort to non - judicialization? Then, if you did not like this intervention that was legitimately adopted by the Government of Spain, it would always be up to you to come to the courts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.205.0	Then, on behalf of the Groupe Parlamentari Mixt, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.206.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. In their speech, the groups of Esquerra Republicana and Junts per Catalunya, have invited us generously to listen to Europe ; « listen to Europe, they have told us. Well, I'm going to invite you to exactly the same thing: listen to Europe. Recognitions of Catalonia's independence by European Union member states: zero recognitions; European Parliament: resolution against independence, qualified majority; European Commission: declaration against Catalonia's independence; European Council – the important, the real, the Union's leader, the one chaired by Donald Tusk at the time –: declaration against Catalonia's independence. In other words, the three pillars of the European Union declared themselves against Catalonia's independence. To say that, by the report of the Council of Europe, the whole of Europe has given them reason is as absurd as if I said that with three Members I have won the autonomous elections in Catalonia. The difference is that I accept my reality here; I invite you to accept yours in Europe, which comes to be more or less the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.207.0	The word "Mr. Batet" continued, in the name of Junts per Catalunya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.208.0	Well, Mr. Illa and Mrs. Albiach were talking to us here a while ago, huh? Some time, some time of change, right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And Mr. Illa too – and Mr. Illa too. Yes – yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now I'm talking to you, Mrs. Albiach. Tranquil·litzi's– tranquil·litzi's. Why should we talk about your change times, huh? , of his times of change, of our times..., that Lord Illa said: « We open a new time in Catalonia, no? Clearly, and the disbande we have come to El País that his government is preparing a law of national security, and that this law of national security, huh? In these times of change of common and socialist lords in Catalonia, this law of national security says that the State will be able to file with all major citizens – a great time of change – that the State will have the power to confiscate the stables and the material assets, and even to intervene the enterprises – a great time of change – until and until this law, without doubt, in which it is converted, is not one of security but of insecurity of civil, individual and political rights. [[Greetings.]] But these times of change – these times of change –... Clearly, it's been three and a half years since you've ruled... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're a little less; they're a little less. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You've been running for some time, of course, and there can be decisions, and what you've done is, right? Listen to me, digital decree, and they're still in force and they're coercing rights and freedoms, not just the Catalonian Government and governments, but citizens, from the point of view of digital optics, and you're complicit. And, too, what have they done? Home, the LRSAL, the famous LRSAL, that everyone had on the election program. "No; when we arrive we will repeal it. It's still in place, the LRSAL. And what else have they done? Home, therefore, the law decree, the royal decree, for the flight of entrepreneurs from Catalonia still continues, and they have not repealed it, which the People's Party did to make it easier for large entities to finance from this country. And it's still going on. And he's still alive. These are the great times of change and the new windows of opportunity. And what do we see in these nine windows of opportunity? Home, that the law of dependence, its financing is not complete, now that it is more necessary than ever; that when it is spoken, as well as the company of the CUP, around the price of the lloger, what they do is to go against the normative capacity of the Parliament and the Generality of Catalonia; that, moreover, the system of salvation continues with its underfinancing – great time of change, huh? , great times of change–, and that, moreover, well, the other day the Councillor Giró spoke of the fiscal deficit, which is already up to 20,000_million. Caram, what changes, you, what changes! Because, just, look, what we didn't do is, with all due respect... we didn't make a reference to the U of October independence to change the financing system. This Parliament of Catalonia did not make a declaration of independence on October 27th by looking, now we will arrange for a reform of the financing system for the back door, because we already know how all the reforms of the financing system end. And it seems to me that Councilman Trias Fargas, many years ago, was already imagining that. They know the end of it. Do you know what they're up to? Paying Catalans and Catalans. There are fifty-two_per_cent Catalans and Catalans who have said enough, which they said in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. And that's why we have this warrant. And I don't want to fool them: we won't give up. And we didn't give up, because that's why he went into prison, that's why the fight continues in exile, because we haven't given up and we won't give up. And, in this sense, President, I want to make clear to you all our support from our parliamentary group for this negotiation that you say will be the hardest of history. And then we keep to the reflection we made on him this morning: if it's the hardest negotiation of history, don't we have to go with all the strength of history? Don't we have to go all the way to the strategic unit of independence? Don't we have to do this with the approval of the assumptions, too? He said yes, he wanted to hear and work. We take this glove, we take our forces and our forts as independence to face this situation, which we see is the will of the State, the Socialist Party, before freedom, of the rights of Catalans and Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.209.0	The word "Mrs. Marta Vilalta", on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, continues.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.210.0	Thank you very much, President. It is curious that of all that has been said here today at the length of the day in this Parliament, the most dangerous and the attention of some of the groups of this chamber has been drawn to the word and to the verb "raisonar". You're funny. Mr. Carrizosa, do you know what Ovidi Montllor was saying? I remember: "There are people who don't like it when it's spoken, write or think in Catalan; it's the same people who don't like it when it's spoken, write or think. It doesn't make us talk, or reason, or dialogue, or negotiate. And, in fact, above all, you've felt it done with those of us who don't have anything in common practically. But we won't stop doing it for as long as we believe. In fact, we will not fail to replace ourselves with rooting, talking, because too often, here, for communication means, or, in other words, in various loudspeakers, we only listen to threats on their part, or coercion to freedom of expression. And we will not fail to make an ode to the word and to the dialogue and to the negotiation because precisely the repression, which has so far been the main response of the State to the independence movement, to the will to be a republic, precisely this repression that seeks to silence us. For this reason, let us reiterate that we do not have to talk; in fact, that by dialogue, negotiating, certainly, with the maximum strength, trying to represent and aggregate and forge the great consensus of the country, this is the way to resolve the political conflict of foundations. Now we have the opportunity to replace ourselves, to find ourselves at this negotiating table. Therefore, let us take advantage, as we say before, of the greatest fortitude, from the independence movement... but not only by representing the great consensus of the country, that they claim to be able to vote on our future, that they claim that the repression has ended, and that this is only achieved with an amnesty, because the pardons do not solve the conflict, the repression of funds. Therefore, we are going to defend these great country consensuss with the greatest possible strength, also articulating the national agreement for self-determination and amnesty, and we are going to defend these positions as much as possible at the negotiating table. And yes, we also take advantage of the rest of the space, the bilaterals or the one you need, in order to overcome those structural deficiencies that affect the country, which are many. Anyway, that's why we want to be a republic, so we can have all the tools and the competitions. But we are going to defend the day-to-day bests for the people, for the citizenry that is patenting in this context of crisis. Now, don't be mistaken: better infrastructures, in short, some decision linked to some competition, do not resolve the political conflict of foundations, which is a conflict that is based on the will to decide, to have the right to decide our future collection on the basis of the right to self-determination and on the basis of being able to put ballots. Look, when we defend the Catalan Republic, we think about everyone, because we know that it's just the best way to keep the tools, the skills, the resources to help everyone, the whole people, the whole citizenry, think what you think. When we defend democracy and are the laws to be adapted to the evolution of society, we think about the rights of everyone in this country. When we defend amnesty and repression can never be the solution to anything, it can never be the answer to anything, nor can it have a head, it's because we think of everyone, of everyone's rights, because it can affect everyone, if there's a reason for being behind it. Yeah. And when we defend a reference, it's because everyone can vote, and vote what they want. Tothom – tothom. And everyone votes what they want. We also work for your rights, Mr. Martin Blanco – before, who referred to me – we also work for your rights, because I can say everything you want in this Parliament. Therefore, do not coerce us with our word or our freedom of expression. We place them, therefore, also those with whom we do not share the destiny, probably we do not share the objective of the Catalan Republic..., but we place them in that we can work together to defend the fundamental rights and democracy. Empathy, many times, is a good counselor. We also place them in the position of bringing the view before a court of accounts that robs the heritage of innocent families; of bringing the view before a supreme court that punishes peaceful politicians while taking violent fascists; of bringing the view before a constitutional court that prioritizes the raison d'être in place of the state of law; and of bringing the view also before arbitrariness, which is often present in our lives. It has become clear that justice has been a mistake. It has become clear that repression does not serve to stop a peaceful and democratic movement such as independence. Now we have the opportunity to open the door to politics to resolve the conflict on the basis of great consensus: amnesty and self-determination. We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.211.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vilalta. Mr. Illa, before I told you Fidies; it was Hipies, Plato's dialect on the subject of sculpture. Before we turn all of us into sculptures for the station we're wearing here, we'll raise the session in the schedule they were planning. As we have advanced an inquiry, we will hide it, and, therefore, we will have up to two-quarters of four; we will resume the session two-quarters of four. What I would like, before raising the session, is to remember – above all for the statement made by the president of the VOX Parliamentary Group, who made a threat that we would end up in prison – that, by virtue of Article 233, I remember that inappropriate expressions like these cannot be uttered. Parliament is a place where people talk and do politics, not threaten. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.212.0	Let's get started, then. [[Proposal for a resolution on the declaration of Catalonia as a zone of freedom for LGBTIQ persons]] [[250-00100/13]] The fifth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the declaration of Catalonia as a zone of freedom for LGBTIQ people. This proposal has been submitted for the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pode and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Therefore, in order to present this initiative, we will start the debate with the proposed parliamentary groups. And then, we'll open the turn of positions for the rest of the parliamentary groups. The intervention turns are going to be two minutes for each of the parliamentary groups. So, in the first place, Mrs Silvia Paneque has the word, on behalf of the Socialists' Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.213.0	Thank you, President. Good late deputies, deputies, councillors. In fact, this is my first intervention from this Faristol and it honors me to do so around the debate on the rights and, in particular, the LGBTIQ rights. But the truth is that I have a bitter feeling because I didn't think I would do it a few hours before Samuel's attack and death, in between homophobic crits. Neither did I think nor did I have any intention, therefore, that this first intervention is made in a context where data indicate that there is an increase in hatred and aggression of LGBTI-fóbiques rau d'Europe, in Spain and in Catalonia as well. Paints, symbol cream, shots and insults and murders are on the rise. This is happening, however, alongside other people who defend the rights of the LGTBIQ collection, with you seeing more clearly than ever. And that the collection is showing, too, stronger than ever in the impulse and willingness to live in freedom. The vast majority of the Parliament of Catalonia agreed today, will be convinced that this motion for a resolution has an immense importance. We live in a time of intense transformation processes. And when the reaction is tougher and nicer, it's when the more we need to push people into the LGTBIQ to have the same rights as anyone else, to be and live in freedom. Because freedom is not trivial, it's much more serious and difficult than that, and it requires respect and a proper environment on the part of other people. The exclusion, the assailment, the insult, has freedom in the mind, but it does not find a society to be able to live fully in freedom. The future is an unknown for all of us here and, in fact, the progress has never been a permanent factor, nor a constant factor for humanity. But in the future, unlike the present and the past, we can devote efforts to it so that it is as much as possible as we had imagined. And for this future still to conquer, I mean, in the most serious way possible and removing any emotion from the speech to focus only on the most important issue, that Catalonia has to undertake all the necessary actions to expand, strengthen and consolidate that all people have the same freedoms. People's rights have been defined on multiple occasions as people's heritage, and that is why I will insist: I believe that rights are much better interpreted as an individual heritage. Actually, they're the most sacred in politics. And I think that on this issue that we are debating today, these rights are being violated. The rights to life, to freedom, are not respected when it is not allowed to be a person to what it is. The rights to life and freedom appear, in fact, as to the fundamental rights for Hobbes, Locke, Rousseau, or in the universal human rights of the French Revolution, and, as the same motion for a resolution says, effectively, in this question there is not only respect for the life and freedom of the LGBTIQ people, but also the strength and vigor of the democratic system. Writer Lena Waithe, from the Master of None series, during the Emmy Awards 2017 said: "I see you all and every one of you. What makes us different is our superpower. Every day, when you come out through the door and put your imaginary layer on you, you have to go down the street and conquer the world, because the world wouldn't be so nice if we weren't there. An idea that seems to be what was explained by the critic Roberto Enríquez – and writer –, more known than Bob Pop, who said: "The Pride is a manifestation that has nothing to do with pride, it has to do with the opposite of shame. And it's very good that we go out and pride ourselves on who we are. Therefore, making the different realities visible and normal, from this point of view, is also to claim us as human beings. Because the human beings, finally, we are so different from each other. That, in fact, is Hannah Arendt's argument. She was attacked as a Jew by Nazism and had to be exiled to the United States, as you know, but she insisted very much on the length of her life to say that the struggle for the equality of women or the effort to achieve the full freedom of the black people or, transferred to what we are talking today, the claim of the LGBTBIQ rights, are ultimately part of the same project, which is respect for human diversity. Arendt explained that the Nazis, when they were like a world to be aris, in reality they were like the extermination of their own humanity, because if humanity has as characteristic first diversity, a group of aris living on the planet would be anything less human. Humanity is different. Taken to the present, therefore, I do not understand, from this, that when the visions of patriarchy and the extreme right claim a homogeneous world, they claim to change human reality, different, for an authoritarian will, which wants to define the other according to its own criteria. I insist on saying, therefore, that this is a debate of arrangements – as you see – ancient and much deeper. The world of freedom, propitious to human diversity, cannot be allowed to retreat from speeches of the past which, unfortunately, return with force and which, unfortunately, also resonate in this hemisphere. It is a question of respect for those people who legitimately claim dignity. It affects basic rights. Finally, who does he think has the power to say how we dress, or who we have sex with and why? Freedom in the private sphere must also have full freedom of life in the public sphere, if not, it is not freedom. The proposal for a resolution explicitly refers to political actions in different countries such as Latvia, Poland, Hungary or Bulgaria, which violate the rights of LGBTIQ people and which exclude and oppress them. Javier Cercas, a gyro that transcends our communities, has decided that we live in a time where the past seems to be forgotten and claims that the memory of the past remains part of our values as civilization. Have we forgotten that the words of hatred, the speech of oppression, or the authoritarian wills only lead to barbarism and fractiousness? It is in these circumstances that we demand reason and moderation, such as far superior to radicalism and primary emotions. The speeches made from the viscerals into political scenes are turned into insults, shots and street rapes. If there is no respect for people in public circles, from this Parliament, for example, society suffers from closing up from more irrational primary feelings. Democracy has as its fundamental point the defense, therefore, of these more basic rights of people. And, I repeat, being able to live in freedom is more fun and more important. Carole Pateman wrote that patriarchal construction was to be divided between those who had freedom – men – and those who were to be submissive. And when the feminist struggle still badly knows it's not over, the argumental thread of the struggle for all freedoms continues. And I am particularly proud to have been able to participate and to have contributed my degree of smile – our degree of smile – from the parliamentary group to this momentum for all freedoms and against all exclusions. Therefore, from the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Catalonia - Unites per Avançar, we are proud to participate in this motion for a resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia. We think it is time to take all possible action to claim the rights and freedoms of the LGTBIQ collection and we hope that this will be a step further in basic respect for its full dignity. And that's what you're going to do for a Catalonia, a Spain and a Europe, a land worthy of LGBTIQ people. If we make it possible, we'll have advanced our way to respect all rights. And, therefore, to have a fuller and happier democracy for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.214.0	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mrs Basha Change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.215.0	Thank you, President. The extreme right is guilty; it is guilty of the murder of Samuel to the cry of "marcon" last week, to a prison in Corunya, to Galicia. He is guilty of the pallissa to a pair at the barri de Gràcia, in Barcelona, the night of Sant Joan. He is guilty of a brutal assault on the Somorrostro plagiarism, Barceloneta, Barcelona, two gay couples as they shouted "fucking faggots". He is guilty that two young men, fifteen years old and said, beat up another twenty-year-old in Sant Cugat, until he was lying on the ground, bleeding and unconscious, while they called him a "bitch" of shit. He is guilty of the attacks, of the hundreds of LGBTIphobic attacks of the last few years, of which only four hundred have registered in Catalonia, between 2015 and 2019, because here we are not counting those that have not been denounced, which are the majority of women and/ or lesbians and/ or trans/ or migrated i/ or racialized, who are in a difficult problem of infrademnity for the institutional violence that revictimizes this type of collusion prior to this type of complaint. He is guilty of the racist and xenophobic attacks he sees every day hundreds of lives in Catalonia, which do not have access to the right, because they are denied. Starting with the right to dignity and self-defense. And the extreme right is guilty, because what they cry out to you as they flatten you, it matters; why what they call you while they kill you, it matters. The spread of hate speech and intolerance is dangerous, because ultimately it causes violence and death, as we see these days. Allow these speeches to proliferate to the public, to the audiovisual, to the media, to advertising, to debate or to television or radio programmes, including to parliamentary chambers of all kinds, what ends up is to allow hatred and intolerance to settle in society every time in a more comfortable and uncomplicated way. Hate speeches are perverse because they use the urgent problems of the popular classes to face the need against need, life against life. They say things like those outside you take the job, the house and the resources, as if the lack of access to resources is who needs them and not who manages them or, in the best of cases, is profit. They say things like homosexuality attacks the family and the future of humanity, as if the family is only a concrete family model. They generate a social fracture from which the rapes and deaths that we are seeing grow in these last weeks, including years. Because if we kill each other, they don't have to stick their hands in the blood anymore. They use precariousness to suppress supremacism. They use diversity to confront families and veins. From hatred and intolerance, they generate division to strengthen their political, social and economic exploitative project; exploiter of the usual, exploiter of the precaritated, feminized, racialized and impoverished bodies. And the extreme right is guilty while the anti-weakers are responsible for shutting it down. Guilt and responsibility. Worry about them and take care of us. Motions for a resolution such as we are debating and voting today to declare Catalonia a zone of freedom for LGBTIQ people are unfortunately still necessary to show the firm commitment of a chamber that must be strong in the face of intolerant discourses and hate speech; strong in the face of the legislative responsibility that we need to create a legal framework with clear and concise elements, in order not to allow any blight to fascism, hatred and intolerance; strong in the face of the responsibility to respond to a mobilized car that demands its rights of dignity and full life, love and expression of these two without conditions. But also, and above all, a mobilized street that claims basic rights in housing, sanitation, education or work. We must be strong in the face of the incongruity of a police force which, in order to protect the integrity of the body and the manifestation and the protest, represses the demonstrators who go out to the street to defend and express the collective pain involved in the murder of Samuel and that which he represents; a police force which pursues the political dissent of the being: from being different to the norm, from challenging the model of life established as acceptable, from challenging the intrusion of the capitalist, heteropatriarchal and white supremacist system to our sex affective lives and to the personal identities that each has. This political responsibility also includes this chamber, from all the councils, especially the councils of Igualtat, Interior, Sanitary or Education, but also from the presidency, which is the political direction of this country. With compromise and with strength. And this compromise and strength is what we will have to express all the Members of this House, not only before this motion for a resolution to declare Catalonia a zone of freedom for LGBTIQ identities, but also any activity or political initiative in which we may be involved in within and outside the Parliament, because we cannot allow hate speech through the words or fascist and fascist cartels that we have seen here too, continuing to permeate the Catalan society, which, as we recall, we have undertaken in previous resolutions to build it differently and cohesively. This implies a compromise in defense of human rights and dignified life in all its extension. But that's to be seen, it's to be felt, it can't just stay in words, because that's looking alive. It is urgent and essential not only that Catalonia be a zone of freedom for LGTBIQ identities, but that this freedom is real, be tangible, with real measures and materials, that reverse the precarious lives to which most LGTBIQ identities are subject. Because freedom is to have access to a home, without discriminating because your appearance does not seem respectable or your family is not heteronormative. Freedom is to have the basic deputy ministers of the light, water and gas guaranteed. Freedom is to ensure access to full health care, including medical care for trans people, and regardless of their administrative situation. Freedom is to ensure equal treatment and non-discrimination of LGTBI infants in schools, in sport or in school. The freedom of movement is also to have access guarantees the way to some decent living conditions. Therefore, against the LGTBifóbia, more beyond resolutions, as much as necessary, what they call public policies that guarantee the rights of life worthy for all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.216.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Common We can, has the word Mr Jordi Jordan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.217.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, with the approval of this declaration from Catalonia as the zone of freedom for LGBTIQ people, take a step further in the defense of the rights and the fight against discrimination and violence suffered by these collectivities. This week, a new tragedy has struck Spanish society and Catalan society with the murder of Samuel, a crime perpetrated for hatred and for homophobic ideologies. Catalonia must never resign before hatred and violence, nor before the extremist ideologies that feed it. We have come out on the street from this crime, and we hope that Samuel's memory and that of so many other murdered people will always hold us still and without rest in defense of the rights and freedoms of LGBTIQ people. Indeed, we see an increase in hate speech, with a reaction that surprises and leaves society unanswered. After years of adventure, progress, right-wing and anti-discrimination, the monsters of hate are re-emerging again, because masculinism, because racism and because LGTBifóbia are the monsters of hatred. The resolution of the European Parliament to which today we adhere warns as the ideology of hatred has reached the institutions of some Member States such as Poland, Hungary, Romania, from the ultra-right hand. By the way, in the State and Catalonia, governments go in the right direction. In this sense, I want to remind you that in a few days the State will approve the law trans, advancing in right, and therefore adding us to the list of member states that they legislate to protect the identity and expression of genera. But these legislative adventures in our home must not make us want another reality that we are also painted. The phonementalist discourses against the supposed ideology of genere are also here decomplexing intolerants and channeling an odi against LGBTIQ people. This broth also cultivates the patim, so here, with the recent attacks in Barcelona, Sant Cugat, Terrassa. LGTBIphobia is not new. You know that. We are and we have fought it for decades and we have suffered all the people of the collection. But there are many, every time more, attacks. And, in this sense, the Observer against Homophobia notes that we have been through these last years of eighty-four attacks in 2016 to 189 in 2020; some attacks that have only been reported have been reported, because still many of the people who suffer from them do not want to report them, continue for lack of resources, for distrust in institutions or for emotional fatigue, among other aspects. We are concerned that the Government of the Generality has not been at the height of accompanying these victims and that it has left in the hands of the entities and the organizations all the accompanying in the complaint and the reparation. In Barcelona, for example, there is a pioneering protocol between the assembly and the observer that has allowed rapid intervention since the moment of the aggression, with psychological and legal support in the complaint and with the work with victims to advance towards the reparation of the aggression; a follow-up that we do not see in the case of the Government of the Generality, which seems not to react beyond the words and declarations. Besides, Samuel's tragedy or the rise in aggression are not just homophobic cases. We all know that. There is another issue that is not mentioned, but which is also worrying: the day-to-day and continuing discrimination that still affects the collection in many communities in Catalonia with fewer populations, in small and medium-sized cities, where being LGBTI is much harder. This is a subject that we also need to put on the agenda, which also needs to be talked about, because there is also an underground discrimination that affects territories like my, the Lands of the Ebro, or others, the Pyrenees, to put other examples, where there is still a long way to go and prevent LGBTI people from migrating to the great cities to feel free. We need to know how to build, we need to be able to build a Catalonia where everyone can live freely their condition, follow Barcelona or any part of the country. In fact, it is worth remembering that the struggle and the constancy of the LGTBI movement has caused this Parliament to approve in the past very advanced and very guaranteed laws, as is, obviously, the 2014 law, a law that was a triumph of the movement, but that the Government of the Generality has not developed in its totality, and yet there are many aspects – some now I will quote – that must be developed, such as the non-pathological trans model, that at these times only exists in Barcelona and Lleida, and therefore not in the rest of the country, or reproduction assisted for lesbian, bisexual or male-like women, that is not guaranteed territorially, except in Barcelona. Nor has there been any strategy for the employment of trans people. Nor have they taken steps to prevent labour discrimination in LGBTI people, such as the law. And, seven years later, we also continue without having approved the sanctioning regime that claims many of the organizations. Therefore, it is clear that it is necessary to continue working, because today LGBTIQ people suffer many discriminations and physical, psychological and sexual assaults in many areas of their life, from school to work; a discrimination that, moreover, is still much worse for transgender people. In this sense, we also want to remember that the suicide taxes between young people and the pain that obviously causes their families and society all this intolerance are very worrying. For all this, before the threat of hate speech, we need to join institutions and do so in a firm way. We also need to be united to all social movements, LGBTIQ and feminists, in alliance, because LGBTIQ rights are human rights. LGBTBI struggles have made us better than society. And that's why Catalonia today takes pride in this commitment to be a land of freedom for all people as well as to fight LGBTIphobia and ultra-righteousness in Europe is also a must for this Parliament, because we always expect love to win hate. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.218.0	Thank you very much. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mrs. Anna Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.219.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Well, the Ciutadans group has adhered to this motion for a resolution from its origin, we have joined the proposing groups, and we are proud to want it to always be at the forefront of defending individual rights and freedoms, more like threatening these rights and freedoms. The right are not abstract figures. The rights are the ears of people, concrete people of flesh and bones who need this hearing, the rights and the law, against intolerance, scarring, aggression and, sometimes, even death, as has been the case of the inexplicable victims of homophobic and LGBTFobic violence along the world's history. From here, a hug to the family and friends of the young Samuel Luiz, murdered in La Corunya at once to the cry of "bitch". It will or will not be a political symbol, but it is a human life that we have lost, a low in the struggle against intolerance. An absence and an unforgivable void. The mere suspicion that at any time anywhere to defend the human life of hatred is more than enough to approve this motion for a resolution and many more like this. That said, we would also like to warn that our full and full support for the present motion for a resolution is not free from reservations of anxiety and critical feeling. We have no reservations about what we believe to be the experience of the resolution itself, and how comprehensively and in detail it denounces the remote alarm of individual, sexual and generative freedoms in various regions of Europe, coinciding with the peak of certain populisms of sign every time more worrying. In effect, it is a matter of great concern to see that democratic, civil and liberal values which many of us considered to have been consolidated a long time ago are once again trolling as long as they do not do so, more openly, from the highest political institutions of some regions and countries, without concealing a fair ferotage, a ferotage that harms the right to a free and dignified human life. As Bertolt Brecht would say, the beast that seemed defeated is again in zeal and again willing to give birth to monsters. Is this new or is it old like the world, like the oldest miserys of mankind? We often like to think of history, if not the history of Western liberal democracies, as a line of unbroken progresses ascend. We like to see you overcome certain barbarisms, vexatious practices, discriminations and even murderers who, let's face it, have never disappeared at all, but in some places know a renewed and terrible vigor. Interestingly, not always the economic, cultural or political progress was accompanied by the progress of freedom, respect and tolerance. The refined Germania spawned the horror of Nazism, the Russian Revolution that came – or so said – to redeem the nations of the Earth exterminated millions of dissidents, parts of the world that are proclaimed oppressed by imperialism do not hesitate to oppress their own populations much more in the day-to-day, stoning adulterous or hanging homosexuals from the cranes, such as Iran. Who says Iran says Cuba. Here, for example, the representative of the CUP, she, has very clear: the extreme right, the extreme right is guilty. Well, I think the extreme right, the extreme left and, in general, everyone who is considered superior to the others is guilty. Let me preach supremacism, hate it and divide it. We don't care when one has to call himself an anti-fessist, or else he should be an anti-fessist. If you make anti-feixist proclamations, it's maybe you're more feixist than you think. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But that's what I'm talking about. That is why we welcome this motion for a resolution with the fact that I did not stand in one of the many toasts to the sun of hypocritical political correction, or worse yet, in directly preaching the contrary of what practice tends to do. It is clear that we aim and always aim to denounce all forms of rape or discrimination against persons on grounds of sex, sexual orientation, identity or gender. As many times as anyone else, let's explain our condemnation of all and each of the LGTBiphobic crimes. We will also repeat and reiterate the responsibility of all public administrations for the protection of these rights, as well as the establishment of all necessary measures and policies to guarantee equality and diversity. It seems to us splendid to adhere to the resolution of the European Parliament to declare the European Union as a zone of freedom for LGBTIQ people, and within Europe, Catalonia. But I ask: why only Catalonia? Why not La Rioja too? Why not Andalusia or Cantabria? Why in Galicia? Why not all of Spain? Certainly, we are the Catalan Parliament, which deals with Catalonia, but not only because national sovereignty – say what some say – we have it shared with the rest of Spanish compatriots and, when you get there, we do not want to raise proposals for resolution in the whole of Spain. It was recalled by the representative of En Comú Pode, who, at least, well, apart from putting in value, let's say, these communicating glasses between Catalan and Spanish politics, has made a certain self-criticism also of what is happening here. Just now, on the 15th of June, a government agreement was signed in favour of introducing the trans law – which the company was commenting on – to the Congress of Deputies; it certainly raised not a small number of cuffs. And I ask: why are we going one day to ask that the Congress is a position in favour of all the trans people in Spain and another day as we declare Catalonia – and Catalonia and rather – the LGBTIQ zone of freedom? Was there not enough to adhere to the resolution of the European Parliament which I have been calling for throughout the European Union to do so? Is it really here to defend LGBTIQ people or to pretend that these people are better protected in Catalonia than in the rest of Spain? I see some bad things I just want to say. There will be those who in good faith, or in good relative faith, think that we are taking it with smoking paper, as in these themes please tell the Vice President Mr Puignero. There will be those who accuse us of wanting to politicize or pull the political punch on a subject that should fall for its own sake and universality. Even our impression is just the counter, that another shot is intended to defuse from ideological progress, from purely ideological, in defense of a collective, in this case the LGBTIQ people, which does not cease to be a question, a general cause against the conjunction of Spanish democracy, an attempt to send a message that is a poor democracy, of low quality, and that still happens that Catalans always arrive as they come, come, come, come, come, come, come the Trinca to save humanity. And don't tell me, please, one thing has nothing to do with the other because we've been like this for years. It has been years since we have experienced sincere governments that spend enormous economic and human efforts to launch Europe and the world the message that Catalonia is democratic, but the rest of Spain is not so much. That there are political prisoners here, that homosexuals or lesbians or transgender people who do not have the immense fate of living in Catalonia are automatically two degrees below in terms of rights and freedoms. Go, as if freedom was invented here and it was too good to export it to Spain, as it is not in small doses. When right now, ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia is captivating the flood of hate crimes all over Spain – I repeat, the representative of In Comú We may have made self-criticism about this. Crimes of hatred, of course, that provide a wide range of expressions, from sexual freedom or genera to speaking one or another official language, or to being in favour of or against separatism and civil segregation of all those who oppose it. In other words, there's no such thing as supremacism. Don't tell me, please, I insist, that one thing has nothing to do with the other or that it embarrasses them to sweep LGTBIQ rights with the rights of bilingual people, as we have come to hear here, because, in fact, if there is more respect for freedom in general, it wouldn't have to go so far, it wouldn't have, perhaps, to defend the LGTBI people, because they would already be well-defended in the context of an integral defence of freedom. Because freedom isn't a sudoku or a bunch of those that our people used to make pieces of here or there. Freedom is of one piece or not; it cannot be modest, it cannot be semi. Do you know who was saying that freedom can't be seminal? An old acquaintance of yours, Mrs. Carme Forcadell, who was president of this chamber until the mermaid songs to the ghost republic dissipated her from this honor, that she could be named that, and, after all, brought her to prison. But not because you are oppressed, but because you thought that the law could be jumped and you could do it to the measure of its harms, that it is the very same that many populists think in Poland, in Hungary or in other countries of the European Union, where it has been thought that the rights of collector senters, following people LGTBIQ, remain constitutionalists, can be currency change, can be neglected, frivolitize, can be completed in one corner of the road yes and the other no. In short, we take as our own, in all color, the best that this motion for a resolution has, that we will vote in favour as liberals to the extreme, as defenders that individual freedom is sacred, and the collective can limit it, and that is why they are lowering the right and the law. For this reason, above all, an infinite will to be better and not worse every day; to re-believe in political and human brotherhood; to defend human rights, without exception, without retribution and, above all, without borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.220.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, Mrs Elsa Artadi has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.221.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor... Well, we've just seen an PR in defense of the rights of the most vulnerable groups in Europe serve to criminalize independence, to vex and insult President Forcadell, to whom, of course, no one has ever held his title or much less his dignity. [[Greetings.]] And certainly, and the people who preceded me have already remembered in the context in which we live, a context that has accelerated, that at the time when the entry of this resolution was signed perhaps was not so visible, but now, with the murder, above all, the murder of the last week's Samuel's saying, a young gay man of only twenty-four years, is more in the center of the discussion, not only from Europe, but also from our home. A murder of Samuel, which did not only happen in those hours, or not only in those who did it, but at the end of this murder..., is what we are talking about today, because at the end of his death, of his murder, of the people who are being persecuted, discriminated against, assaulted and murdered by the LGTBI collection, there is much more than those who committed the violence that you said. In the origin, in the reality that there are, there are hate speeches, there are speeches that claim to dehumanize the collection, there are the opinions of people because we consider them different and because some decide to consider them inferior, generating a context of growing discrimination, stigmatization, vexation of all that is sexual diversity, gender and identity. Speeches inciting those who later execute violent, discriminatory acts with a sense of impunity. And there is also after that, those who in the hours and days after Samuel's murder generated an immoral debate about whether it was a hate crime or not, whether it was a hate murder or not. Because the diluns, which we found with the councillor and with many of you, we were very and very much in the concentration of the LGTBI entities, of the platform, of the Federation of Entity of Catalonia, but we should have been much more. And on the other hand, you've got to see this debate, this confusion and this invisibility of some communication media behind Samuel's death. Because what we were condemning was the murder of a person, what we were condemning was the murder of a person to be as it is. He died because of his identity. And so, today, I think it's very important that we denounce that, despite all the adventures, all the conquests, which we often talk about, all the patience that the people have made, that it has cost them so much to achieve these adventures, and with whom we are in debt, now we have to plant ourselves and confront ourselves with the concern that is generating the involution of rights to many countries and also to our home. And this right-wing involvement has its origin, and it's the result of the most radical right-wing advent. A more radical right that is at European institutions, that is almost all European parliaments; that they have among them, that they are united by the destruction of movements and identities that aspire to a better society; that they want to impose their cultural, racial and sexual homogeneity before diversity, and, therefore, are immersed in a denialism of the reality of human condition; that they make an apologia of hierarchy, and, therefore, they are against equality, right to equality, non-discrimination, that they are fundamental parts of the European Union, founding European values, and that they are carrying on this accelerated drift of actions and actions that are xenophobic, racist, LGTBibic and masclistic. Because the fact that the ultra-right is in institutions is causing loss of rights, is causing a setback in legislative measures and is threatening organizations, entities and people defending human rights. Human rights that do not distinguish between people, that are universal, that are inalienable, and that, above all, the defence of the human rights of a collectible, no one has to advance them or go at the expense of the human rights of other collectibles. But these reactions of control of freedoms as in the form of social control are implanting an aberrant discourse of the "I am, and you are not only different, but you are inferior, and this is what we are patenting, elements that are also characterizing this repressive act with a will of armoring the LGTBI collection, of the "you can be as you are, because you look if you are generous, you can be as you are, but you follow it at home, that you do not know, that you want to prevent people from publicly showing how they are in their sexual orientation, in their gender orientation, trying to eradicate the reality, of public reality, that is the difference, making public space insecure through the sexual orientation of the person, in their own direction, by trying to eradicate the reality, of the public reality, that is the truth, by making it impossible for people to publicly insecurate through the sexual orientation, that the name of the abuse, by banning, the secrecy of the abuse, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution of the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution, the prosecution. And it is that, the fruit of the presence every time major in the public scene, in social, in politics, of people who come from the feminist movement, the anti-racist movement, of the LGTBI, has increased a sense of por; of those who have kept some privileges artificially and who have dedicated themselves to oppressing other people. And now, with an absolutely perverse move, those who have been actors in this oppressive system have decided to victimize you with a supposed culture of cancellation, perverting the right to freedom of expression and giving censure to which are prohibitions of offensive language or discrimination against vulnerable groups. But to maintain a tolerant society we need to be intolerant with intolerance. Because the defense of freedom of expression without limit to means of communication and political spaces, which is happening, legitimizes structural rapes, which have consequences in inequality, oppression and also in death. And in the Spanish State there are alarming, more or less obvious signs of this willingness to invisibly and to go back. Because when you don't take the flag of pride, you're denying it and you're invisible to the collection. When you refuse to process the trans-law – and if you do not divide the feminist movement – you are denying and invisiating the collection. Because when you talk about therapists curing homosexuality, you're generating hate speech and violence. And when the police are attacking peaceful protesters who are demonstrating for the murder of a young gay man for hate crime, you're feeling an actor in stigma and you're feeling an actor in the persecution of a collectible. But, too, when you find it convenient to deal with fascism to approve the laws, you're bleaching it. Last week, with the councilwoman, when she made the appearance, in fact, we started by making this voice of alarm of this need to redouble the efforts that ensure that we continue to walk towards equality, that we make courageous policies from the Generality to address the rise of the ultra-right and to shield the rights of the citizenry. Because threats are multiple, the teranyina of fascism penetrates into all the heads of our daily life. And in a polarized situation, the laws continue to feel the last line of defense, and, in this sense, the sanctioning regime is also..., which we also talked about. And it is that today we are experiencing a crisis of violence – some of the companies have made reference to it – about the LGTBI collection. There were some of us, at the presentation of the observer of the glaring data of the increase of incidents against the LGTBI collection. And, as President Borràs reminded us this morning, in which we carry more than a hundred years. We need policies to stop, we can't go through a month of July like the month of June we had and like this spring. It's unacceptable in our society. And if we don't take steps to be all accomplices. I'm done. Democratic principles are certainly based on pluralism, but ultra-rights and fascism are not a political option like the others, they are anti-political. Their ideas and their programs are neither respectable nor legitimate. The presence in politics, institutions, ultra-rights and fascism has ceased to be residual. I think that among all of us we have to make a greater effort than we have come to finish degenerating its penetration capacity and continue working together to put up with it with strength; a strength that until now, while we have been verbally doing so, I think we have not been able to do so. In fact, in the last parliamentary term, with Congresswoman Segovia – I do not see her now, however – we talked about it; what it means that we prepare ourselves, that we prepare ourselves because this would also happen to our house, that this would also happen. And I don't know if we're done doing all the work, but I do think we all have to conjure up to get it done. Because there is freedom for all of us; because they are not free until everyone is free. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.222.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra, has the word MP Jenn Díaz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.223.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. I would like to start with the beginning, which is that this proposal is not to love. And I'm saying it because when we sleep in June and, especially, so, it goes down on the 28th, everyone seems to be very concerned about the feelings of people in the LGTBI collection. And that wasn't love. And I'm saying this because it's been a long time since the LGTBI fight carries phrases by flag like you think or love is love, and that, in fact, when people in the LGTBI collection are attacked, they do so as they are read by this intolerant society, not by what they think or whom they think. Because the LGTBifóbia can act, I won't deny it, in situations where relationships are visible, it's true. Therefore, when we see our love, we can suffer these situations. But we're in 2021 and we already know that attacks go beyond making our love explicit or not. And the data corroborate that. And I'll move these dice out of love. We're talking about a higher tax rate. We are also talking about paying attention to discriminatory salvation. We're talking about not keeping the right to housing. We're talking about the right to free violin education. We're talking about a higher suicide rate. And we're talking about individual and collective discrimination and aggression. So, that's not going to love. And I think we should get started, don't we? , to deepen the debate a little more there. Because, from everything I've said, the phone book... it doesn't count for anyone. And because there are people who, without opening their mouths, with their only existence, return this violence. And that's what LGTBIphobia is about, not love or esteem. And I'd like to do a little bit of memory, because it turns out that the LGTBIQ fight is mostly about her and the ge, that they're some rapes that we might be falling apart in a little bit more normal, right? , and we see some of the specific rapes that trans people suffer, that they deserve, I think, a chapter in the band, and that when we talk about LGBTIQ violence, we tend to standardize all of this collection and, therefore, to use that idea of the Francoism of the "wows and villains and, therefore, the whole LGBTIQ collection is the same, and I would like to point out that when we talk about homophobic rapes we are a majority and when we talk about trans-viophobic rapes we are a few others. And I think that this is important that we make it well-recognized, because there is a global movement, that we also have here in Catalonia, that is called TERF – for those who don't know it, they are the trans-exploent radical feminists – with a speech and arguments that come together to which conservative and extremist Drets have always donated, but they are not conservative and extremist Drets. And I think we have a danger here that's also normalizing some rapes, because a lot of these endorsements that support gays and lesbians, and that go back to the entrance and normalization of the extreme right, now the reindeer, and enlarged, trans people. They told us that gays and lesbians would wipe out the wedding, too, it seemed like they would wipe out the family. The hemerotheque has generated a number of right-wing and extreme right-wing bosses: the marriage and the family were threatened with the law of equal marriage. It also seemed that the law of divorce would end with the family, which certainly a few days ago we were able to celebrate forty years of the law of divorce, which has not only not ended with the family, but has ended with those obligatory marriages for many women of this country who submerge them into a puddle of unhappiness. And, therefore, this law is not that you end up with the family, but it ended with unhappy families. Just like the law of abortion, which would also end life – now, moreover, we have another law, that of euthanasia. And it's pretty funny that the party that talked about freedom the most lately is what the most limitations want to put on people's lives. But I'm going back to the transfer, because I think when we uniform the LGTBI collection, we're invisible to a specific rape. And now trans people, but above all trans women, seem to come to erase everything; feminism, women, the fight for equality, the integral laws of protection and guarantee of rights of the trans collection seem to end with humanity, like a menu of apocalypse. Some of the alarms of the end of the world, which some years ago was this fraud of law, as in the case of the egalitarian marriage, that say: "Well, now you can all marry everyone, right? Or that we were told that the lesbians were supposed to rape us in the costumes... all those threats have not been fulfilled and all the threats that this collection, TERFs, are now making to the trans-people will not be fulfilled. So, that rape that was homophobic, right? ...that we need to be able to differentiate now from the transfer, because I think it's important. But while these threats of the end of the world have not been filled, they have sown hatred and have sown suspense and doubt, and in the same way that the extreme right and right have generated a shameful hemeroteca, now they generate trans-exploding currents of parties and movements that have historically been at the side of the LGTBI collection. And it's impossible not to talk about Samuel today. Some people want to make us believe that murder has nothing to do with LGTBIphobia; they are the same people who talk to us about intrafamily violence and they are the same people who do not want to recognize that violence has a majority gender, and that when women attack and abuse us and murder us, there is always someone who wants us to believe that this is not masculinity and has nothing to do with the fact that we are women. And every time they want to make us believe that violence is rape and that we don't know each other and that male violence doesn't exist, the only thing they do is not recognize our right to reparation, because we don't identify ourselves as victims of male violence, because I myself cheated years into this idea that violence is rape and is not male. So obviously the LGTBifóbica violence that Samuel suffered we have to politicize him. And as long as it's a symbol! And I want to send a message to all those who legitimize the LGBTIFóbica violence that we are patenting the last few weeks that with their normal speech they hate, because we will work every day of our lives to make them out of institutions. Every day. And the extreme right, that every time we talk about these questions, you end up asking for the word for allusions, now you have every reason to do it. Indeed, we are talking about his masculinity, his racism, his LGBTIphobia and his hatred. And it'll cost us more or less, but we won't rest until we get them out of our institutions. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.224.0	Finally, the rest of the parliamentary groups have a two-minute turn of intervention to position themselves. First of all, Mrs Mònica Lora has the word on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.225.0	Thank you. Well, good afternoon. That proposal is a clear demonstration of the ideological agenda that you have been trying to impose on us for a very long time. They assume in the proposal for a European Parliament resolution that directly attacks the sovereignty of several Member States such as Poland, Hungary, Latvia, Bulgaria or Romania. And you know what? That these countries have done precisely what they have done is to shield their homeland and protect their minors, as for example they have banned manifestations of public sexual propaganda within the reach of minors, whether they be sexual orientation, even if you only look at the LGTBIQ, or the letters you want to invent are to continue charging. And also and here is where we get to the core of the issue, and that is what you also attack. They complain about the countries that have cut the tap to the LGTBI ideological bars. But what do you expect, who seek to sexualize children prematurely through compulsory indoctrination in schools? And that is that you are committed to stealing innocence from our children, our children. And now, moreover, we find that, with the famous trans law, they also want children to question the sex with which they were born, and not only that, but that, in the phase of immaturity, which passes through childhood and adolescence, they can change their sex, they can become hormonal and they can also mutilate their genitals, irreversibly. And it is that we find an abysmal inconsistency, because it turns out that nowadays in Spain a minor, a girl like Mireia, can not buy cigarettes, can not buy alcohol, can not vote or drive, but may call herself Manuel and change sex at the age of sixteen. And it is that, gentlemen, one cannot legislate according to the self-perceptions that each person has: it degenerates into frauds of law and in absurd, unjust, even very dangerous situations, such as, for example, that a man may declare himself a woman in order not to be harmed by the comprehensive law against gender-based violence, which is a law that clearly discriminates against men. And above you are shocked by what you do, for example, Hungary, because, look, while Hungary protects and supports motherhood and the family, we find that in Spain laws are promoted to promote death, as is with the law of euthanasia or laws are promoted to unprotect our minors, as is with the famous trans law. And, look, our legislation neither discriminates nor encourages violence against people based on sex or sexual orientation. If they want to eliminate homophobia, discrimination and violence against people with a certain sexual orientation, they should perhaps begin to stop importing individuals into our land who come from countries where people are thought to be inferior because of their sexual status. ( Some applause.) And you, on top of it, open the doors of our house. And they come here with exactly the same mentality. And on top of that, they give them paguitas, they give them housing and all kinds of resources, to take them away from the Catalans of all life. And do not deceive us: many of these aggressions that you speak of and condemn, and that we also condemn, such aggressions are often promoted precisely by those to whom you open the door of our land. And we will not vote in favour of this proposal, because it clearly pursues a political agenda of lobbies that is clearly polluting our national and also autonomous legislation, and endangers our minors, and because it violates equality, creating discrimination of the first and second. And, look, do you know the difference between you and us? That you condemn only those aggressions from which you can draw political revenue, and today it has been seen here, in the Chamber. As has happened, for example, with Samuel, who has had to go out his father to say that the murder of his son is not politicized. If I were you, I'd be ashamed of myself. ( Some applause.) On the other hand, since VOX, from our parliamentary group, like the vast majority of Catalans, we condemn it absolutely everything, without looking at who the victim or the aggressor is. So, in this sense, lessons neither, because we will not accept a lesson from you. And here I do want to give a warning, and I don't want to look at anyone: go very carefully [[remorse of the voice]] , because we will act..., yes, go very carefully, and I do not want to look at anyone, because we will act, from our parliamentary group, we will act legally against those who resort to insults and slanders to link our political formation, to VOX, with some kind of crime. Be very careful. [[Greetings.]] And it's a warning. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.226.0	Then there is the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Mixt, Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.227.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. The truth is that I go out to this rostrum without knowing very well what to say, after some of the demonstrations I have heard here in several of the speeches. And the truth is that I wonder what was the real purpose of this motion for a resolution, I insist, after listening to some of the speeches that have been seen here, the desire to seek guilty instead of seeking solutions. I don't think that's the way. To set an example, Mrs Lora, to Hungary with that anti-LGTBI law, which even the European Union has already called into question, as it cannot be otherwise, because it even attacks universal values such as respect for diversity, I do not think it has been the best example. The speech Mrs Artadi was actually making is that it has also made me a little cold, in some respects. It seems to me very good that you recognize the impact that some speeches have on society, because here we have heard speeches of all kinds – of all kinds. Since you have made a defense, in this case, of Mrs Forcadell, based on a few words that you were told from the Citizens' Group, for I, for example, have heard Mrs Forcadell say that the People's Party of Catalonia is not a people of Catalonia. That encourages hatred, Mrs. Artadi. I, in this Parliament, have been called inhumane, I have been described as inhumane by a member of your bench. That encourages hatred. Yesterday on TV3 we saw how from a supposedly humorous program it was said why not throw stones at the Civil Guard. That encourages hatred, Mrs. Artadi. So, it is very good for you to acknowledge that there are certain speeches that have an impact on society. And hopefully we can also talk about these issues and we can find an equally broad consensus to which this PR has been found to bring here. And I do not want to stop here any longer because what I had written had nothing to do with anything other than the motion for a resolution, but it is that, I insist, talking the last one at the end sometimes has these things, that you listen to everything and you cannot not pronounce yourself on it. It is inevitable today, speaking of this proposal, to agree on Samuel, of course it is. The Socialist Party partner said that she was going to try to take away the emotions from the speech. It costs me; it costs me because it's very recent. It's true that he's under investigation. We'll see what happens. But, as Begoña Gómez wrote in La Vanguardia, what they call you while they kill you matters. And Samuel, while being assaulted until he was killed, was called a faggot. And I think that has to make us all think about it. And, of course, from here I want to send a message of affection to your parents, especially your family, your friends... Some of them had to witness Samuel's murder. I don't even want to imagine the impact that that can have on people so young. And, of course, my greatest rejection, condemnation and repudiation of such actions. I hope that justice... then I trust that they will catch whoever is responsible and make him pay for it. But it is true that this memory that I wanted to have has done so from the utmost respect. And here, Mrs Díaz, you have said: « So let us turn it into a symbol. His father has expressly asked us not to, that they do not want his son to be a symbol of anything, that they do not want his son to be politically murdered. And, therefore, I think that requires the greatest respect on our part. And obviously from here we must express that support, that affection and that rejection of what has happened, of the family, and that rejection of what has happened, but let us respect in any case the will of their parents. It seems to me that is undisputed right now. Not only do I want to remember Samuel..., it is true that it is the most recent, although yesterday or today we have also known that during the weekend there has also been another homophobic aggression, in this case to a couple, in Valencia ; here in Catalonia we have also had a rebound in recent months, and we have already talked about these cases, haven't we? , of the couple attacked in the neighborhood of Gracia, of the aggression also in Somorrostro, Michael, with that brutal – brutal – beating that they gave to him and also to the person accompanying him. In short, I do not want to enter each one, because according to the data that passed us from the Observatory against Homophobia, in what goes from 2021 we carried more than one hundred homophobic incidents only in Catalonia. It seems to me that this has to make us reflect. I think there is an increase in insecurity – in fact, we have been denouncing it for a long time – of insecurity in general, and obviously of insecurity towards certain groups in particular. There is an increase in aggressions that are especially targeted against certain groups, such as in this case the LGTBIQ collective. And I was saying before that I think that, beyond trying to look guilty, I think that what we politicians are coming here to is looking for solutions. And we have to get to work. And it seems to me that bringing here this resolution of the European Parliament..., which speaks of declaring Catalonia as a zone of freedom is a step, but that we cannot stay there alone. It's just that in the end these... Sometimes we make statements and we adopt motions for resolutions here that look very nice on paper but then they don't translate into anything. And I set as an example the law of 2014, the law to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, and also to guarantee the rights of the LGTBI collective, which was a pioneering law at the time, but which has remained there. It's a law that hasn't just been fully deployed. And, therefore, if we start making laws that, I insist, are very good on paper but that then they do not have a real translation in the day-to-day, then then they do us no good. And, therefore, from here I believe that we must also get to work on this issue, to deploy this law and to try, I insist, to seek these solutions. Not only the law, I think we also have to focus on the issue of education. He spoke before of universal values such as respect for diversity or that of coexistence. I believe that we must educate on these values, obviously respecting, of course, the parents' moral convictions, but I insist that in talking about coexistence and talking about respect for diversity, in this we will all find ourselves. We also need to talk about the training of public servants, especially in Mossos d'Esquadra, especially the judicial servants, and in all those departments that are therefore more directly related to this type of incident and that have to deal later with people who have unfortunately been involved in an assault on grounds of discrimination on grounds of sex or sexual orientation. More awareness-raising campaigns are also needed. We need to spread the collective rights, the mechanisms that are based on this law that we were talking about. A lot of people don't know, a lot of people don't know where to go. There is also a fear of stigmatization and, surely, of these complaints that we are aware of, so many of the attacks remain there, they do not even reach the complaint. And, therefore, I fear that the data are much worse than those we have on the table and that we are being facilitated from the Department of the Interior or also from entities such as, I insist, the Observatory against Homophobia. More awareness-raising campaigns must therefore be carried out in this regard. We also have to think about the need to accompany, with these complaints, and I think this is also a job of the Administration. Therefore, do we want Catalonia to be a zone of freedom? Yes, we are of course going to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, as we have already done – our fellow Members have done – in Europe, but that area of freedom must be given content, we must give it tools, we must give sufficient legal mechanisms so that it does not just remain in a paper proposal, but, I insist, we must make it effective and real. I already say that I intended to make a speech in another way, but it seemed to me that we had to go down a little bit to the reality of the matter, that we are facing a very serious reality, that this upturn is taking place, that people are again manifesting that they are afraid, especially young people, that they are afraid. I think we have gone back about ten years on this issue. We can't afford it. And, therefore, I do not think we can trivialize with what kind of issues. I think we all have to be very aware of what hate speech implies, any kind of hate speech, is addressed to the target group, and obviously we also have to take into account the impact of our words, especially from public institutions. I wish – I wish – that declaring Catalonia as that zone of freedom for the LGTBI collective helps us to take a step forward and above all to lower these levels of violence against the collective we are living. Thank you very much. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.228.0	We shall now proceed to the vote on this proposal. We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. This motion for a resolution was adopted by 118 votes to 11, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Let's get to the sixth point of the order of the day. It would be the interpellations. We have already said this morning that the question to the government about airport infrastructure will be seen in the next plenary. [[Question to the Government on the basis for coexistence and for a Catalonia of all]] [[300-00020/13]] Therefore, the point of the order of the day is to ask the Government about the bases for coexistence and for a Catalonia of all. It is presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, and has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry by Mr Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.229.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, our parliamentary group has sent you a letter, along with eight points, for the coexistence and a Catalonia of all. These are eight points, in our view, basic to live together in harmony in any region of any democratic country. These are eight points that we have not only written from Ciutadans, but have had contact with virtually all the most outstanding associations in the constitutionalist world, some of them..., I will not quote them all, but Societat Civil Catalana, Impulso Ciudadano, S'ha completat! and many others who have seen how the historical demands of constitutionalism were systematically wiped out by nationalism and ignored by the successive governments of the Generalitat and which we have wanted to collect and transfer. Madam Vice-President, your offer for Catalan society in the coming years of the legislature is amnesty, self-determination and referendum. And we introduced you..., and I already introduced you when I had the pleasure of meeting with you in the company of our deputy spokesman, Marina Bravo, and Secretary General, and the President of the Generalitat and yourself... I gave you transfer of these sheets [[the timer shows a few fulls]] With those eight points asking them to read them, to think about them and that we would take them to Parliament to discuss them and to discuss them. These eight points are listed only and very briefly so that we know what they are about, because with ten_minutes, if I extended, we wouldn't have..., you all have it. One is respect for the law. Two, one person, one vote. Three, that conditions for investment and growth are guaranteed. Four, respect the Spanish. Five, the rehabilitation of the Castilian in Catalonia. Six, TV3 and Catalunya Radio, plural. Seven, Catalan institutions for all, of all. And, eight, the cessation of attacks on state institutions. This is basically the content. I will detail it briefly..., one of these points, four of them, as an example and to introduce into the debate. And I would like to see not only you as Vice-President, but also all the representatives of the other parliamentary groups to whom we have addressed, so listen to us and then act accordingly in the debates and votes that will generate this inquiry. I'm also sure... and I wanted to say this to everyone; to you, Vice President, but also to the rest of the political forces. I am sure that these eight demands that we present in Ciutadans, I am sure that every day you meet people, you sit with them, you have friends, you have family members who think that there are just..., that they are eight very basic points, very simple and that many Catalans, thousands of Catalans, hundreds of thousands of Catalans, millions of Catalans, I am sure you would also like to listen to that other part of Catalonia that is not involved in everything that the process entails. Four points. First, respect for the law and the separation of powers. Look, it seems very important to us to have a reliable government of the Generalitat in the sense that Catalan money will not be used to do things outside the service of Catalans and that it respects the principle of submission to the law. And this morning we had a debate in which the aim of the President of the Generalitat was precisely to remove, let us say, the controls of democracy embodied by the judiciary. This brings enormous discredit to all public representatives. You, now, with the Court of Auditors, are starting another work of contempt, of discredit because you do not respect the institutions of control, the modes of control. You want to be out of control. And I say to him: this seems fatal to many Catalans and they see it as inequality, and that you want to be unpunished and immune to what the rest of the citizens have to do, which is to comply with the laws. That is why many Catalans ask you to change course in this. Also in the respect of the Spanish in Catalonia. We saw a SPL monitor from the CUP, precisely because, boasting on Twitter that he had told a child that the Spanish T-shirt did not wear it the day after school. The Lord of the UPC now looks down as if he didn't hear what I'm saying. I'd like your group to know that that's wrong and to say it publicly and to condemn your sympathizer being so... well, I don't even know how to qualify it, because he got into it with a kid wearing a T-shirt from the team. And you, as a government, look somewhere else. And you, Mrs. Vilalta, as a party, look elsewhere. And you, from Junts per Catalunya, look elsewhere. And we want that institutionalized hispanophobia to attract attention, and that when it is said 'fucking Spain on TV3, because we care a little about everyone who is spreading a speech of hatred unpunished by you who govern. That's what a lot of people in Catalonia are upset about, and I'd like it to change. Like what Mrs Marta Vilalta did today, for example. It is that point 5 is the rehabilitation of the Castilian in public life. They are two things that connect: the contempt for the Spanish, the Spanish retrograde, primitive, anti-democratic, oppressive, while the Catalan already, genetically, is a person who, well, who is not blonde, tall, because we are not there; we are not there, but we are in something else, you know? So, uf. That's a lot of yuyu and... The rehabilitation of the Castilian means that Ms Gemma Geis, for example, complies with the resolutions when they tell her that the students do not have to raise their hand to ask for a test in Castilian. That is to rehabilitate a language to social normality or that has not been banned in our teaching with linguistic immersion. Or the words of Marta Vilalta, who associates the use of the Spanish language with the retrograde. That we would like you to leave so ugly that you recognize that you exist in your territory, in your port or starboard seats, or in the north or south, I don't know, but that you recognize it. A lot of people would want it, a lot of people. A TV3 and a plural Catalonia. Hey, news coverage given to the Spain-Croatia party, with record audience in Catalonia, on TV3 there were no images. It was to hallucinate. There were images of other games, but of that, no. A selection that is made by very good Catalan players and that, in the end... Well, of course, as a selection what is the compendium, the gathering of the football, sports power of a country, because you, of course, that really goes against separation, union. That power of selection didn't suit you and it didn't come out on TV3. So, this TV3 that doesn't tune up many Catalans, because I think that that many Catalans bothers them; let it be theirs, because they would want it to be everyone's. End attacks on State institutions. Look, you harass the forces and security forces in Catalonia, you specifically harass the king. Look, I understand that you're Republicans, but, as Mr. Illa used to say here, you remember that you govern for all and you're not just Republican Left when you're talking. Then, you may be very Republican, but it is that tens of thousands of Catalans went out on the street on October 8, 2017, after the king made a speech, which you have not stopped attacking since then, but in which many Catalans feel represented. Then, you have no right to harass in Catalonia the institutions of the state, however Republican you are, the king or the title of the princess of Girona or whatever. For you should not make a militancy from the institutions of attack against these institutions. And that's what bothers many citizens. And I'm asking you today that you have these eight points, you know that I was going to talk to you about this, and many non-separatist Catalans don't affect your bench... that now boast of fifty_and_dos_per_cent – that's not much, huh? , fifty_and_two, but, well, it's fifty_and_two of fifty_per_cent – you know you don't have a majority in Catalonia, you're not, you're not a majority, because I would ask you today to think about those other Catalans. For the first time, do not talk so much about amnesty, self-determination and referendum, and please talk to us about this that you knew I was going to talk to you today and that many Catalans will want to know what you say. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.230.0	To answer the words of the President's Counsellor, Mrs. Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.231.0	Well, thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, you've done it again today, as in the appearance, you've put me in the vice-president's category; I'm a councillor of the Presidency. In any case, the people I have around me always consider that I see the got half full and, in any case, when I read the title of their inquiry, I thought that we might be landing a little to the reality and that we would place the great concerns that the country has to solve the political conflict, to get out of this difficult social, economic, health crisis to which the pandemic has caused us, but I see that with you this is an impossible mission and that they remain anchored in their speeches, mantras and in a certain way distorting the reality. In this sense, I like to talk about the legal order and the separation of powers – before I have done anything – but, in any case, the separation of powers only exists in some forms of government and that is that the legislative, executive and judicial power remain independent. And this is the fundamental quality of representative democracies. Montesquieu argues that every man who can bend to abuse him to find the limits. In this sense, I would like to ask who watches the vigilantes, who watches the tasks that the courts, political courts, courts like the Court of Auditors, for example. And who's watching them? Who controls them? So the majority games of the Spanish State – that's what happens to the State. A court of accounts which, in fact, this July 23rd, ends a new term of office which should be renewed, therefore, the persons forming part of its Board of Governors. And that will not be so, because the People's Party does not want to lose this conservative majority, and therefore blocks and instrumentalizes this Court of Auditors. And, therefore, Europe has warned on many occasions of these evils practiced in Spanish justice. And, in this sense, a court that does not wish to proceed with a provisional liquidation of 5,4_million euros to persons who in reality have carried out external action, activities included in the State. And that, in any case, many will be retaliated, but these the Constitutional Court did not retaliate. Therefore, they are fully in force. In this sense, only to announce in a speech the words "self-determination or reference, therefore, have in some cases imposed million-dollar bonds. And that's an out-of-the-box theme. In any case, I also say that these people were not warned – which in the castle is said to be a warning, I say to translate it correctly – and, therefore, in this sense another, let us say, abus it, what would you say, of Spanish justice, a misapprehension, an unjustified fact, an economic inquiry against the accused and their families. Because, in fact, the economic hardship they can cause is for many years. In any case, the Government of the Generality does what it does to defend its public servants, and it does so by virtue of the principle of indemnity, which is the duty of the whole Administration to protect its public servants; which is foreseen in the basic state of the public employee – and, in this case, I will read it in castle, neither..., because there is no doubt – which says the following: "The guarantee of indemnity implies, in the field of employment relations, the impossibility of taking retaliatory measures resulting from the exercise by the worker of the protection of his rights. The importance of this guarantee is that it directly interferes with a fundamental right provided for in the Constitution, in particular the right of effective judicial protection of article 24. Therefore, because there is no doubt, we read it in the original language. In any case, in its enthroned Constitution. By virtue of this approach... – all the administrations do so and the Administration of the Generality too – it is on which we have based ourselves to make this complementary foundation of the Generality to cover the legal defence that they have in some cases..., let's say, not to solve some concrete cases but, in general, the legal defence that may have public and high-level servers. Anyway, he talked about the election law, it's one of his points. Obviously, I would also believe that parliamentary groups would have to work to make this new law. So far we haven't found the consensus, we haven't found the way to do it. But anyway, let's take this option. But an electoral law, yes, but not only to improve its electoral expectations, but also to modernise the process, which is very rigid, consultative procedures, to talk about the electronic vote. And I also take the opportunity to defend the suppression of one of the most flagrant injustices surrounding the right to vote, which is the vote, that is, the fact that the citizenry that saw outside the foreigner cannot vote under normal conditions. He also spoke of political instability. And, look, even though I don't like him, we have a strong government, a committed government. And in any case, the political stability and rules of the game are the parties that deal with the extreme right, or the moments that we have suffered from a 155 that have squandered our institutions, or at the time when a president, legitimately chosen as President Torra, was disqualified to hang a banner – this generates political instability. And, in this case, the Council of Europe has already warned that it was very difficult to disable a president for a symbolic gesture of support for prisoners and political pressures. And we're talking about hate, which you raise. Miri, Catalunya doesn't hate Spanish, no way. We want to build a better country for everyone – that's obvious – but we want Spain to be our best see or see; we want to have a relationship from you to you, from country to country. And, in any case, the speech of hatred has practiced it that has dehumanized prisoners and political pressures, exiles and reprisald exiles, because with dehumanization it gives cover to out-of-measure prison sentences or astronomical economic sanctions; because dehumanization is justification for repression. And retaliate so that whoever comes back wouldn't be willing to go back there. Therefore, we do not understand that there is a conflict of coexistence or a conflict between Catalans and Catalans. In any case, yes, a legitimate conflict. And a conflict, we understand, between Catalonia and Spain in the sense of counter-values, and sometimes they have to counter-values. And our values, our values that inspire our political proposal, give sight to the people, and plant freedom, counterposed to imposed or subtly imposed values. He also spoke of plurality in communication media. I'll call you a report from ACC on plurality that established that TV3's information was the one that collected the most diversity of political views. Between September and December of the year 2020 this assessment was made, and in concrete terms TV3 information gave the word to thirty-four political groupings, and TV3 and Catalunya Radio agreed to balance the time of the formations of this Parliament. They also talk about respect. You speak of respect for the Crown or the Spanish Government; you speak of respecting "the normal performance of the functions of the Crown, the Government and the General Administration of the State – concretely, eh? And, in any case, we would ask him what he refers to when he speaks of "normal performance," if he refers to the speech of the 3rd October king – when he had the opportunity to build bridges after a brutal rape of the U of October, his speech still generated more hatred of Catalonia and hatred of democracy; when he speaks of "normal performance, he refers to limiting the phonenal rights of citizens applying the law, for example, against the independence movement or social movements? Anyway, this isn't normal for us. We will always find ourselves putting people in the centre, especially the most vulnerable people, and resolving challenges and moving the country towards freedom – here it will find us. He was also talking about institutional neutrality. And I don't know what it means when he talks about Catalonia's institutional neutrality. You have the same rights as the rest of the matches. But, in any case, obviously, the government governs and governs with an independent coalition and with independent support from outside the government and implements its program. But obviously that's what democracy is about; that, let's just say, is normal. In any case, you won the 2017 elections and were not able to form a government. But now I want to remind him, as I said before, that the government rules for everyone, and I just need to give some examples. For example, the fact that the Government has set up a right-to-habitat working group, which has begun to work for, effectively, halting denunciations; or various activities linked to this Parliament in relation to the right-to-habitat or universal basic income, etc. That is to say, elements that effectively support the problems of the citizenry. For example, the support that we have been able to give from the government to people who have ERTO, but despite this they do not just come out because they have a very just support; or you help them to self; or the 25,000 young people who are done and we give a decent job place because they can develop. Therefore, we work for everyone, we work with this institutional neutrality, and we want to be the government that gives answers to the great challenges of the country. And anyway, for now I'd leave it here, and then we'll continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.233.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Vilagrà, of course, you tell us that you were waiting for our proposals to resolve the political conflict in Catalonia and Spain and such and such. Of course, we already know that we do not recognize political conflict between Catalonia and Spain, but between Catalans, motivated mainly by you. And I say to him yes, that these are our proposals to resolve the conflict that we have between Catalans. It's just that it may not be up to you to think that there is another part of Catalonia that considers that things would be better if you, all or some, go, are very essential, of these points you could embrace them, or you could negotiate them or you could consider them part of democratic normality in Catalonia. And that's why I come to you to... You say to me: "Amnesty, self-determination, referendum, and I say to you: "Hey, eight basic measures of democratic pulcrity, that would solve the conflict. May many Catalans not see each other, oysters, and yourselves not be involved in the problems that are often involved, so basically, because one of these points does not comply with it. And you say things like, "Who watches the watcher? , referring to judges. Listen, of course you're not, that you're the executive power. To the vigilantes, as you call them, who are the judiciary, they are subject to the law. It is the law that compels them. And then there are a number of guarantees, such as, for example, the double instance. Then, if a judge is wrong, for there is another judge who can amend the plane, and you know it very well, because all the lawsuits there have been and because there are, you always exhaust any kind of instance, which is very legitimate, and I as a lawyer always understand it a lot. "They say that the Government has appealed, the criminal has appealed, I don't know what..., because I think it's very good that it appeals, but in the end, when whatever comes out, you will have to admit it, I suppose. You, then, have started to defend things like you have to pay the money to those who have defrauded the administration, and that this... well, these things, of course, I can't admit them. You've already started talking about your book and not what I asked you to talk about for today, which was ours, which I tell you I present to you as the feeling of many Catalans..., as the feeling, feeling. That's why I've alluded to dinners, to meals, to acquaintances, to relatives, because many Catalans spend it fatal; not just you, eh? Look, today I'm going to get tired of quoting Mrs. Vilalta. Let's see if I can get his sentence pointed at. You said, Mrs Vilalta, something very nice, something like ‘a little bit of empathy, huh? , that you have alluded to empathy. Pay attention to Mrs.Vilalta and do not send us this way, do not send us...We always talk about yours, today talk about what affects or what interests you, or how to solve the problems that another part of Catalonia presents to you. Electoral law. Let me see if this is true, that I take note of this proposal that you tell me to talk about electoral law. Let's see if it's true, if we get, then, that the vote of an inhabitant of the metropolitan area is worth one vote, and that the vote of some areas of Catalonia is worth two and a half times more than that of this inhabitant of the metropolitan area. Let us see if we can achieve this, and then we equal a little bit, and this Parliament is a little bit more like reality and you are not going to do it electorally. That'd be good. I would appreciate it if you would make this gesture with many Catalans who are fried to know that you always leave with advantage, huh? Then you say: « Catalonia does not hate Spain, already, I already know that, but some of you do. Catalonia, as an entity, no, and Spain, as an entity, no, but some of you do hate Spanish and therefore seem inferior. Frankly, listen, why are we gonna cheat on us? This is happening, huh? And then, regarding the normal performance of the functions of the crown. Look, I'm gonna finish, because I've got thirty-five seconds left. It was also a sentimental issue and not to offend those who feel represented by the crown, who, moreover, have all the right to do so, because this is the architecture of our State. But to conclude, I would say to you that these eight points are subject to your consideration, and that the Socialist Party, we would also like you to attend, like the rest of the parties on this other side of the bench, who do not always want to give you for your food to separatism in the three solutions that you give: amnesty, self-determination and referendum, but also think that the other Catalonia also has its demands. And let's see if those who electorally get votes from the other side of Catalonia, are also able to get in...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.234.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.235.0	Thank you, Madam President; I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.236.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.237.0	...are able to enter into the negotiation and vote of these eight points proposed by Ciutadans. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.238.0	Then you have the word to make the reply the President's Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.239.0	Well, without being used as a precedent, we agree on one thing, that it is in his hashtag, when he spoke of these points, that he would say 'Catalonia of all, I would say 'Catalonia of all;' 'Everyone is an inclusive word. Of course, Catalonia is from everywhere and from the Presidential Council we are a bridge between the departments to promote economic, social policies in all the camps to improve the lives of the people of this country and to make a country closer, obviously, eh? But, certainly, for another band, we are very far in many ways, obviously. It will not surprise them if we say that this government and the parliamentary groups that have made it possible have the objective of absolve independence and absolve the Catalan Republic. No one can deny that in the last elections to the Parliament of Catalonia independence has had an important victory, of this fifty-two per cent and seventy-four escons. I, in any case, with prospects for growth. It is clear that Catalonia is not a monolithic bloc for what it does to the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. There are various opposing views, confrontations and options like yours that we obviously respect as a political option, but that we confront, that we do not share and that we obviously fight from an electoral point of view. But as we are independent and democratic, we obviously respect and defend the political plurality that exists in Catalan society, it is the essence of democracy. We are deeply democrats, and precisely because of this, we believe that the right to self-determination is the only democratic way to resolve this conflict between Catalonia and Spain. And he had not yet called it self-determination and amnesty, but now he has. In any case, in order to resolve this conflict, we understand that self-determination is inclusive because it includes the possibility of expressing those who are independent and those who are not, and therefore, being able to publicly defend their vote. But also this government has always held its hand in the dialog. And it's obvious, and maybe, in the case of the Spanish government, it hasn't always been like that. Now we have a government that seems to want, let's say, to recognize the existence of this political conflict and to resolve it politically. Obviously, we will be there to make an effective negotiation that is deep, that is fruitful. But, in any case, we, the main objective, is to face repression and put Catalonia's future in the hands of the citizenry. It's the two great consensuses that exist in this country, and you say it, and we say it, we say it many times. And so, when we go to negotiate, we go with these two elements: amnesty and self-determination. Independentists are clear that this is an inclusive option. In this sense, it is a right, that of self-determination, which is, therefore, contemplated as one of the main human rights. In this sense, this government is in favour of the people deciding and we want to empower the citizenry, we want to empower it to participate, because there are all the agents involved, because no one is more than anyone and no one is to be attached to anyone. We want to work out a great deal of agreement for self-determination and amnesty with the objective that the right to self-determination may be discussed in this dialog table – this table of an early dialog until now – because it is effectively recognized by the Spanish government this possibility and, precisely, therefore, there is a much deeper negotiation process. That is why we will work on this agreement, the national agreement for self-determination and amnesty, broad and plural. But let's have a second thought – and I'm done –: the Spanish Constitution is not a thread in itself. It was a pact, actually, at the time, year 78. Miri, but I was two years old, I didn't vote for it, obviously, and, in fact, only people over sixty have voted for this great charter that is the Constitution. Therefore, the vast majority of Catalans and Catalans have not done so, nor have the vast majority of people, therefore, of the rest of the State. In this sense, after forty-two years, don't you think it's time to put it up to date, to shake it up, to modernize it? In fact, I am more in favour of a political or legal system such as English, which has no big card, which adapts, which are the laws that have adapted to social change and political change. I therefore believe that the time has come for the Spanish State to change this very conservative approach and not to make such rigid legislation as an excuse. In this sense, the Catalan government is a transformative government, it is a deeply democratic government that wants a political solution and that believes that this political solution goes through a compromise referendum. This is where they'll find us and it's our political outing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.240.0	Yes, Mrs. Vilalta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.241.0	Yes; Madam President, I would like to ask you, pursuant to Rule 87 of the Rules of Procedure, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.242.0	You're 30 seconds old.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.243.0	Okay. Thank you very much. First of all, I'm flattered by this carelessness of Mr. Carrizosa on this day of today's respect for my person. But, frankly, what I would also ask of Mr. Carrizosa, in this sense, is that I stopped defaming and accusing us, because he is devoting all day today to telling us what we have not said, only to be able to feed his speech of confrontation. And here we won't be found. They will not find us feeding the discourse of confrontation, encouraging no supremacism or encouraging no outclusive nationalism. On the contrary, we are working for respect for all languages, we are working for the social cohesion of this country, we are working for this « Catalunya, a people with all their diversity and very proud to follow it in this way. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.244.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.245.0	Why do you think, Madam President? For allusions by Mrs. Vilalta. To answer the allusions of Mrs.Vilalta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.246.0	One moment. I will give you thirty_seconds, however, as we said at the Spokesman's Meeting, the turns of allusions are to answer the allusions around one of the questions, not to open a debate interspersed around the allusions. Because you now don't know what you're going to say – for a moment, I haven't given you the word – but I remind you that we said that we wouldn't open these allusions to respect each other. You used the word and repeated it in this intervention and in the past. It's two times that it's repeated about this. So I'll give him 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.247.0	Yeah. Thank you, Madam President. In a parliamentary system, what people expect is to enraonem and to speak, right? So... exactly. What I wanted to remind you is that Mrs Vilalta has said that 'raining does not have an equivalent verb in Spanish and that it will be for something. And that's very serious, Mrs. Vilalta. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.248.0	It's here. It is an evidence that "raisonar" did not translate to the castle in the same sense that it has the word "raisonar" in català. It's already, it's evidence, it's not a question that I have a background. The one who said... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, a moment, a moment. You don't have the word, Mr. Carrizosa. And I'm not due to a debate with you. I can only see the fact that the verb "raisonar", from a linguistic point of view, does not have a translation into the castle in the same sense. There are many synonyms of the word "talk, in castle, but it does not have the... In other Romanesque languages it does exist; in Italy there is the verb "reasonare", which is right. In French there is the verb causer, which goes to « pose the cause [[applause]] But it doesn't exist in the castle. This is a linguistic and philosophical evidence. Point. Continuously... ( Carlos Carrizosa Torres continues to speak without using the microphone.) Mr.... Mr. Carrizosa, I told you I wouldn't collide a debate with you. (Founding voice) No, no, no, no, no. I told you. I gave him a twist of words. (Founding voice) No, but I told him I wouldn't give him a debate with... We're not fa... (Founding voice.) We're not having a debate, Mr. Carrizosa. I gave him a word for allusions, which I had already told him at the Board of Spokesmen we said that we would not allude to allusions, and I said, before I made this appreciation of linguistic character, I said that I would not open a debate with you. Therefore, I will not give you the word to have a debate with you at the end of the verb "raionar". It's clear. There have been four interventions on the verb raonar. We're not having a debate. [[Asking the Government about the unemployment plan in active employment policies to overcome the impact of covid-19]] [[300-00019/13]] We will continue to address the session with the eighth item on the agenda, the question to the Government about the shoc plan in active employment policies in order to overcome the impact of the covid-19. It is presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and to make the presentation of the inquiry has the word of Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.249.0	Enraonem, isn't it? (Long break.) Thank you, President. Well, then let's have a good time. Counselor, counselor... today, counsel, we're doing double, huh? Question for the morning, now an inquiry... in any case, talking about labor policies, talking about the labour market and above all, and in essence talking about issues that are important to our country. And important problems that come with heredity, come with heredity because the cove that has done has been accentuating a very difficult situation on the labor market, a very difficult situation already on the mark of the working class. And I think it's good that we talk about it, about it, that we talk about it, that we analyze it, that we talk about it, and that above all we put on the table the different needs and the different solutions that we need to deal with for the most part with the citizenship of our country, which is, without any doubt, the working class. The data are really troubling and the covid that has been done has been accentuating it. Between the twenty-five and thirty-four years the employment rate is 74.9_per_cent. Between thirty-five and fifty-four years the employment rate is eighty_per_cent. It is this stage of our lives where we have more work options and we also have all of our practically complete training stage, while always having the stage of continuing training, but where we surely have a greater return, where even from the business world we see that we have a greater capacity for work. From the fifties, the davallada is brutal. The employment rate for the 50-year-old is fifty-nine_per_cent. That means there's a 40-per-cent twist. And with the youngest of twenty-five years the employment rate is only 27.7_per_cent. It is a fact that we should not only reflect; we should be forced to take decisions immediately. It is a fact that we should be forced to transform, that we should be forced to lead the necessary transformation that this country deserves. A 27.7_percent occupation in young people under the age of twenty-five is a ridiculous and useless excuse, the excuses that they are forming and that is why they cannot work, that they are occupying other spaces, that they have not yet arrived the time they enter the labour market, because many of these young people precisely cannot emancipate until they reach this rate of thirty-five years. Many of them still can't buy a habitat, because the prices of the logger are for the clouds; many of them can't buy a habitat because they have precarious jobs, because they have jobs that with enough jobs, precisely, arrive at 1,200_euros. These wages make it untenable to live outside the mother's home. These wages are unsustainable so they can emancipate themselves. These wages force them to accept pre-charitable labors. These wages oblige them in many cases to give up their training in order to try to be multi-employees. Young people in our country don't deserve it. That's why it's so important that the government announced this past week. That's why it's so important that this platoon of xoc takes a look at vulnerability; that this platoon of xoc do not seek, with existentialist gaze, to put a good in a wound, but that this platoon of xoc has to be the transformative impulse to change the structure of the labor market. A plate of rock that puts in focus the majors of fifty-five years, a plate of rock that puts in focus the young and a plate of rock that puts in focus the women and those work of greatest precariousness. While men have a '11,9_per_cent atur rate, women have a 14,2_per_cent atur rate. Always women – always women – suffer much more than men. And for what it does to the structure of the labour market and for what it does to the structure of the contract, there is a fact that we also need to reflect in depth: in 2007 contracts that do not reach a_month of duration, so short-term contracts, were of the disset_per_cent; in 2017 contracts that are short-term reach forty-two_per_cent. This – this – does not mean occupation; short-term contracts are precarious. Long-term short-term contracts do not allow the design of a vital trajectory, they do not allow emancipation, they do not allow us to develop as people, they do not allow us to continue our training. Long-term short-term contracts only make up the cifres of the atur. A 12,9_per_cent turn to our country, according to the latest data. And with these 89,448 people that we currently have in ERTO's situation, to all those people that today are more out than in the labour market, what solutions can we provide? So this plan of work also of the Government – and therefore, also the questioner, counselor – seeks to provide solutions for all workers who are in this situation of continuous instability. And we're no longer talking about the impact of the crisis, because it's certain that the storm has dropped, but it's that the storm is falling because, precisely, all these short-lived contracts have ended up dying out of the pandemic and, therefore, have not been renewed. That's why it's slowing down, because these contracts have gone out, not because there's a better job market. And when we talk about better labour markets, we also have to make reference, and in this we already know the Members and Members who already know each other from other legislatures, that it is necessary to change labour regulations. While we are active in labor reform..., the 2010 and 2012 labor reforms, we will continue to precaritzant. While the labor authority of this country does not have the prior authorization, it will not be able to intervene in the labor conflicts that companies raise. While labor reform, labor reforms are maintained, we will continue to allow and put a red captivating to those multinational companies that want to square their economic balances at the expense of the working class. Because we're putting a red captivator on them so they come to our country to destroy jobs. We're putting a red captivator on them because the costs of hoarding in this country are very low. Many times we have said it, and today we will continue to say it, we must repeal labor reforms. And we don't need to put forward a motion for a resolution in this Parliament and vote for it and some of them abstain, and we don't need to then point out to support the following five motions for a resolution calling for the repeal of labor reforms or going out in this lobby to make very emphatic speeches with the working class, but that, in some cases, when we have the capacity to decide from the government of the State, we love the head under the wing, because it turns out that we don't have enough strength to be in a government. It's no use here. Just as we don't need to turn the board around to working people who are part of a subcontract: it doesn't. It does not work, because we can modify the Staff Regulations in its Articles 42, 43, and with this modification we would allow sub-contracts – sub-contracts – to be only in exceptional situations and, therefore, that they do not follow the norm, so that large multinationals, large enterprises continue to pre-characterize the labour market. It is not necessary to look at another singing all and going to demonstrations and not to touch the basic norm that harms the working class. Therefore, Counsellor Torrent, before this situation you have a very important challenge. In fact, I would say that it has the most important challenge of this legislature, that it is to reformulate the labor market without having all the skills to do so. But we will help you in whatever it is possible to force the machine because this legislation is changed here, because this legislation changes. And we, from our parliamentary group, will continue to force the machine so that you from your corporate advice and work is working on the paradigm shift. Because the economic progress cannot go against the working conditions of workers and workers. Because we must overcome the fallacy that the only possible way to advance economically is to mislead the working class. And here you will find us, counselor, and I am convinced that your task from the Government of the Generality will be to change that look, also business, and to protect the working rights of the workers of our country. Therefore, we would also like to make clear to us what is the look of his department on respect and also that he exposes us, also, in a didactic and pedagogical way, what is this plan of shock that he has in the focus of his political action, precisely those most vulnerable collectivities of our society and which, therefore, we must help to get in the way, because it is our obligation and why we are here. And, of course, say hello to Parliament's workers, who always do it at home and today I will do it at the end.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.250.0	Thank you very much. Now, to answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.251.0	Thank you, President. Member, indeed, today we have been able to debate in the morning and debate now late, welcome if you are able, of course, to introduce questions that are of common interest to the Parliament of Catalonia. You were talking, Congressman, at the end of your intervention, about paradigms, huh? , of the paradigm shift, and I am specifically committed to this, because precisely in the paradigm we apply in each of the socio-economic situations in which we find ourselves and which we have to manage, there is an obvious ideological component, but above all there are some responses that generate different impacts on society. And to exemplify it, and then to continue talking, obviously, about the shoc plan, I'm going a little bit backwards and I'm going, in fact, until the 2008 crisis, just to explain the paradigm shift and above all how the responses are necessarily different. Well, 2008 was a financial crisis that spilled over the rest of the sectors. There was also a well-funded response to bank bailouts, well-funded; therefore, a presentist response and without conditions, non-conditional help. From that crisis, from that outflow, from those policies that were applied at that time, there was a survey of inequalities, an survey of injustices, which we have watered down for many years. In fact, we have flushed them as long as the scars are still in patim today. And now we find ourselves with another crisis, in this case, health care and an economic crisis resulting from the pandemic, but also from the health care measures that have to be taken to deal with it. Today, the master lines of the answer are different. We are talking about public resources raised, if language allows us, to the productive economy, with a transformative vocation and, above all, conditioned on certain values that today are fundamental to the European political agenda. Therefore, the answers are different, the paradigms, which you gave, are different. And, from this perspective, we also want to act, we also need to act, especially for what you do to the work factor, which I will refer to and which you also introduced. But in order to explain what measures we have completed and what we presented last week, I would also like to do an analysis of the current data: where are we today? I will not repeat the data that you have explained very well, because it would result in certain messages, but I would certainly like to put in place some figures that explain what is the context in which we are taking these decisions today. From the outset, it has to be said that we are, we have already said it some other time, in a process of progressive recovery, from an economic point of view, and this has an effect on the conjunction, obviously, of society. And, therefore, we have some employment data that have evolved positively. Last week we had data: the middle social security affiliation has increased by 1.5_per_cent, that means almost 50,000 people, and therefore we have levels of social security affiliation very similar to the situation of covid-19, to the pandemic. Of these people that we have increased to the affiliation of social security, it is true, you have also mentioned, that 89,448 are still in ERTO's situation; but it is also true, on the other hand, that between March and June of this year it has been reduced by about sixty per cent of the time, of unemployment, that it had been created in covid-19. In fact, and these are the data that we presented last week, it has been reduced by 36,000 Catalans and Catalans the data of the day. But that, as I said, is the evolution, and at the same time, we still have scars coming from the previous crisis, and we must not forget, from this point of view, that there are still 445,862 people still in Catalonia, of whom 56,4_per_cent are women and that fifty-four_per_cent are more than forty-five years old. Therefore, it is clear that, although the data, from a point of view of the occupation, are gradually improving, we still have a long way to go, not only from a point of view strictly pal·liatiu, but also not only from the perspective of helping those Catalans and Catalans who are in a situation of tur, but also taking into account that the factor working, obviously, is also essential for the transformation of the model of production, you also did not speak. And indeed, it is an essential element: this is the main value, not just of businesses, but of our economy, the human factor, which is essential to address the great changes in foundations. And, from this point of view, obviously, everything we have to go to social inclusion, sustainability and resilience of the system. Therefore, active employment policies are established in this camp; that certainly what we are looking for is job insertion, but also prepare us for these transitions that will occur in many productive sectors of our country in the next few years. In fact, if one thing brought the covid-19 is that it definitely put us in full in the 21st century. And in all this, there is the shoc plan; and now I actually go to the point of his inquiry: a shoc plan which we presented last week and which, obviously, is to do with the front, serves to do with the situation of progress and to boost the formation and occupation of Catalans and Catalans. It is a plan of shock that has an investment remembering: 917_million € mobilised; there had never been an investment of this magnitude. In fact, the median of the last two years for active employment policies was 509_million euros, 509_million euros for the last two years for 917 years with this plateau; therefore, an increase of the eighty_per_cent. This, for itself, obviously, no longer only demonstrates the economic effort, but above all what is the priority for this government, aiming, obviously, to offer a worthy future to the people who are today in the dark or who need to recycle work in order to prepare themselves better for the post-covid-19 labour market. Therefore, it is directed to the collectivist who most need our society, our country, the world of work. It is directed, above all, to those collectivities which, in a structural way, suffer the most from this situation. And we estimate that with this shoc plan, with these 917 million euros, we can almost reach 500,000 Catalans and Catalans, with the objective, of course, of not letting anyone go back to these moments, but above all of preparing for a world of work that is constantly changing, associated with digitisation, care for people or the green economy, that are fundamental elements and that will obviously recur in the next few years. Of these nearly 500,000 people, basically, we drive to five collections. One, the collection of young people; effectively with an unacceptable, insurmountable youth treble, the thirty-three per cent of youth treble. You were talking about a strip, but if we take the joint, it's a thirty-three per cent youth act, a date we can't afford. And from this perspective, what we're doing with this plan is five-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-euro aid for young entrepreneurs, and we're hoping to reach 25,000 young people in the country. The second collection, people over forty-five years old, effectively young women, single-maritime families and people with functional diversity. These are the collections to which we refer. How do we drive it? With a wide variety of programs, some that already exist and others that are of new creation; diversity of programs because, obviously, to which we go, when we attack, is to a diversity of types and very large cases, and we have to do almost a surgery job, we can say so, very surgically, to reach the different collections taking into account their needs. In any case, for the time being, I leave it here; then I want to get into these programs, because it seems to me that it is important that we value them and that we put them on the table, that we explain exactly how we can address the joint Catalans and the Catalans that are waiting for today from their government and from their parliament measures like this shoc plan which was an electoral compromise, which was a compromise of this government, which we presented last week and which must be, as you said, one of the fundamental challenges of this legislature. We will follow, therefore, Member, later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.252.0	Thank you, Counselor. Next, for the turn of the line, has the word Mr Jordi Albert. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.253.0	No, the good thing about the case is it wasn't supposed to come out again, huh? But... [[Rialles.]] President, thank you. Well, counselor, deputies, deputies, let's be here again. As far as you were concerned, it seems to me that this is a situation, which you have defined, which we are certainly concerned about, but now I see that we have a clear line of work; I see that from your advice you make a determined bet to change the paradigm, to activate policies of transformation, and of transformation in the labour market, and to do so with full awareness and with full responsibility that only with Republican-looking policies can we change things. And, therefore, this plate of rock that you were exposing to us, which was clearly explaining to us in a pedagogical way, as we had asked it, so it follows these parameters; it follows these parameters of fighting inequality, of defending social justice and of getting back to what a capitalist system as we find ourselves in, therefore, is used to accelerating and exaggerating, which is simply: those that have more to accumulate, those that have less to lose. Therefore, before this binomial, our obligation from the left, our obligation from republicanism, is to have transformative and disruptive policies; to break respect a capitalist gaze that encourages inequalities. And that is why it is also good that, in this new governance structure of this legislature, and therefore, of this Aragonese government, therefore, its advice to one of these souls, the soul of Enterprise and the soul of Treball. Because in the end they are two souls who have to walk together, they have to walk folds, and they have to do it based on two key elements. The first of them is that the major act of any company in this country, the major act, are their workers and their workers. Therefore, any economic progress, any economic gain to which a company wishes to aspire to our country must necessarily count with the workers and the workers. And that connects with the second key element, which is social concertation, social dialogue, collective bargaining, trust. And that's why we also have to change our eyes to how we promote economics, how we develop business, how we activate the new industry based on resilience, based on sustainability, based on value added and quality of work. Because, on the basis of this collective negotiation, on the basis of this advent and with this great agreement between the working class and the business directorates, we will be able to promote a better quality of life for our society. And this better quality of life will also have direct repercussions when we wrap up and can collect from pensions. Because today I didn't have to talk about pensions, but since I'm doing the second word, I'm also sending a little message, and it's that the solution is not to extend the retirement age to sixty-seven years or to have the baby boomers decide whether they want to collect less or work more; the solution is that the State returns the money it stole from the pension box in the social security box. And so much so that the State does an analysis, an audit, to know exactly what is the value it has stolen from the workers' butts and workers of our country and to return it to nearby, which is to pay pensions and not to make us work any more years. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.254.0	Then there is the word Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.255.0	Thank you again, President. Congressman, I've done this parliamentary classic that it's almost forced to get him back out here because so I have five minutes of reply, and so I can just explain what I wanted to explain before and what I think is important that we put on the table. Because it is not only important that, obviously, we talk about the master lines, those that guide our policies and decisions and also the debates that we have here, but above all as they are concrete, and so long as the citizens of this country have specific information about who are the determined programs that go in the line of which we are planting and that we obviously share, you and I. He spoke before the programs through which this platoon is deployed. The most important, of course, is the promotion of employment, with 306_million euros – vocational guidance, vocational training for employment–, a part of which, of which, of these funds, therefore, managed for the Continuing Education Consortium; the extraordinary orientation and training programme for people in ERTO's situation – before we have spoken, very important –; the FP programme, in vocational training, for people who are, therefore, requalified. I also said, it's not just important, is it? , job insertion but above all these transition processes. And from this point of view we also push programs that already exist but give them a new clutch, like the Mestalent. how, basically, to the formation of highly demanded profiles and with a high qualification, even from a technological point of view; the training programme in the aeronautical sector, with the agreement that we have with the Municipal Institute of Vilanova and Geltrú, is in fact where we presented the shoc plan, because it seemed to us to be a good message and an emblematic element from this point of view; the programme of the occupation for diversity, piloted by the social economy, with 138_million euros, aimed at special work centres, enterprises of insertion; the autonomous work and employment relationships, with 13_million euros, 10 of which are intended for employment assistance, and also for young people, for a long time? ; labour mobility, with the programme of assistance to those who want to practice in European Union countries; local economic development, together with the joint ventures– we are talking in this case of EUR 32_million–, and the Singular project, a project, also, which has a certain continuity, which in this case we have with EUR 41,5_million, and which is also important from the point of view of the priorities that we have set ourselves in the conjunction of the umbrella that involves this plan of soc. In short, a historical reversal, we say before, an unprecedented reversal, which has the objective of generating more work and therefore, of course, more opportunities for Catalans and Catalans. And that's what's behind every reinsertion or requalification story of a worker in this country, a success story, a small victory, if I may; a small victory of the system, a small victory of public policies, but above all a small victory of the community. And this is what we aspire to with this plan, which is directed, as we say, potentially, to almost 500,000 people, 500,000_000 Catalans and Catalans, and, therefore, we hope to have many victories with this plan of rock. Because we are aware that only if we focus on the quality of the work, only if we are able to generate decent work, and therefore enabled and necessary tools to occupy ourselves in full 21st century, can we be able to plan the transformation and the better of the joint production system that we have set ourselves as a priority during this legislature. The work factor is essential, not only for social equality, not only from a point of view of inclusion, but also, and especially at these moments, from the perspective of the necessary change lever to change the production model of the post-covid Catalonia, which will have large differential elements in relation to the pre-covid Catalonia. In short, honourable Member, we will have the opportunity not only to follow this course of action but also to see how..., in other words, how positively it impacts Catalan society; we will also have the opportunity to assess its incidence, and above all we will have the will and vocation, also to continue talking about the world of work, which is always essential, but, as you said in your first intervention, at these fundamental moments, a decisive pillar of this Government. Thank you very much, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.256.0	Let's move on to the new order of the day, which is the question to the government about the right to voluntarily interrupt the pregnancy to the health system, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - A New Cycle to Win. [[Asking the Government about the right to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy to the health system]] [[300-00022/13]] Mrs Laia Estrada has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.257.0	Thank you, President. Well, as you all know, the right to abhorrence, sadly, is one of the most violated rights in the world, despite the fact that, according to Amnesty International, the right to abhorrence is practiced..., one of the four embarrassments is interrupted every year. The reality is that precisely the taxes of abhorrence are higher where there are more restrictive and punitive laws. And, in fact, as the most accessible is contraception and access to aneurysm, the lower the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. And, therefore, it is widely demonstrated that penalizing aneurysm in any case does not prevent this practice, but that what it does is that there are complications arising from this clandestine practice that lead to a totally unnecessary risk situation for women who decide to end up with their embarras. In fact, the World Health Organization ensures that complications resulting from unsafe abortions cause up to 47,000 annual deaths and account for a total of thirteen per cent of maternal deaths in the world. Abortion is a human right, like all sexual and reproductive rights, because we understand that they are part of the right to salvation, that it is a right recognized as a human right, and therefore the object of this inquiry in any case is to question this – this is a fact: motherhood is always an election, never an imposition – but we today want to debate the implementation of this right in our home, which has been violated, and how we can solve it. If you do a little retrospect you will remember that it is not until 1985, with the approval of the Organic Law 9/1985 of 5 July, which is recovered this right after the Franco dictatorship illegalizes the right to avotion. 85 access to aneurysm is possible under three assumptions – the heavy risk for the physical or mental health of the pregnant woman, in the event of rape or malformation in the fetus – but, from that law, what has been produced is that the practice of interruptions of pregnancy is also still produced in private clinics. Fifteen years later, in 2010, the Organic Law 2/2010 was approved, which allows for the abortion until fourteen weeks and which includes access to the right to the abortion for women of seven and seven years old, despite the fact that later the State Government of the People's Party imposed on them the need for a parental permit. Despite the advent that this law supposes, not up to break with a practice that is still unfolding from what is private sanitation, if not more with an important part of the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, as I will continue to explain. We say that, in Catalonia, the right to voluntary interruption of pregnancy is not fully guaranteed because there are different barriers, such as the Sexual and Reproductive Rights Observers, and we take advantage of it to make a recognizance of the Task of Association for Sexual and Reproductive Rights. We, like neither the Valencian nor the Islands, have been able to integrate the totality of the practice of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy in the public health centre's portfolio of services. Why? So because an important part of the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is being practiced, it is being outsourced to specialized private health centres. And this involves a whole series of harms, both for women and for the conjunction of the health system or for the conjunction of the people. A problem that is aggravated by the conscientious objection that is practiced, therefore, individually, that is a protected right, but also collectively, that is not a recognized right. In fact, when it is practiced collectively, we have identified that this is related to some employers directly related to the ecclesiastical lobby. The X-ray we have right now, according to the Sexual and Reproductive Rights Observers, is the following. In Catalonia there are two methods to be able to voluntarily interrupt pregnancy, pharmacology up to the nine weeks of gestation and surgical or instrumental until the fourteen weeks. On one side, of the pharmacological method, therefore, the Assir are concerned, and what we see is that in 2019, at forty per cent of the Catalan communities, the women did not have any authorized center to carry out these pharmacological IVEs of the Assir's hand. The hardest case was that we found the High Pirine and the Aran until 2021, until March 2021, with their comarques allowing to interrupt the pregnancy voluntarily from the pharmacological methodology and, moreover, with the outsourcing of the instrumental aneurysm this done, forced the women to make authentic kilometres. On the other hand, if we look at what happens to the instrumental, the situation still leaves much more to be desired, because this externalizes, as I said earlier, to two clinics, only to two private clinics, set in Barcelona, to the province of Barcelona, two to the province of Girona and one to the province of Tarragona. Who are the consequences of this situation? So, in one band, the distribution of the service circuit to the voluntary interruption of the pregnancy represents a territorial barrier. We have clearly seen the demarcation of Lleida, with the hardest cases, as I said, Counsellor Argimon, of the High Pyrenees and the Aran, but we have also seen it in the Lands of the Ebro, where the women who want to surgically interrupt their barbarians must move to Tarragona or to Barcelona. And we also see in central Catalonia that, despite the fact that their communities are incorporated in the province of Barcelona, the fact that we geographically speak of very long-distance populations also entails a hardship for these women who decide to voluntarily interrupt their barbarism. But, in general, we have a territorial barrier for all those women, beyond those who see the demarcation of Lleida, the Lands of the Ebre or central Catalonia, because, as I said earlier, if you want to interrupt surgically, a_must come out of most of their communities. In fact, the Observatory of Sexual and Reproductive Rights quantified in 2018 in 482 the women who had to move out of their communities in order to interrupt the pregnancy. In the band, there is another consequence that is the right's violation to sort out what kind of voluntary interruption of pregnancy is intended to use. Why? So, because this territorial heaviness, the fact of moving so many kilometers, can condition and, in fact, say that conditions in many cases the fact of sorting one method or another, in this case, sort the pharmacological more quickly. Another consequence is that outsourcing involves a greater criminalization and referral of women who decide to abort, because the same Association of Clinics accredited for the Interruption of Embaras explains that they are continuously subject to mockery and referrals on the part of the phonementalism that criticizes the right to abhorrence. I, in fact, quantify in eight thousand the women who have been cared for before their 2010 clinics. And, lastly, another consequence is that many women have ended up paying directly from their butxaca. In fact, according to a report prepared for the journalist Paula Ericsson in the public newspaper, one of the three women ended up paying for her abortion, despite the fact that theoretically this is a right that should be recognized and, therefore, is not right to be, in principle. For what it does to the consequences on the health system, for us the fact that each year we have to pay about three_million euros for these externalisations is not right. This should be able to take over from referral hospitals, the voluntary interruptions of instrumental or surgical embarrassment. Besides, we think it's unacceptable that I will violate the right of women to be treated in public health. And we think that it is unacceptable to allow, to a certain extent, a covert negotiation on the part of these private clinics with whom we are concerting this activity that we should be able to deploy directly. We do not go into what it means to sharpen all the problems that we always denounce, which is the system of public or private concertation in Catalan sanitation, but it is obvious that here, from our point of view, we have a difficult problem and the department, therefore, the action of the department more quickly shined out of its absence. You have just arrived, but it is a criticism that we are launching all the parties that have formed part of the governments of the Generality and above all those that have held the Health Council, because nothing has been done to combat territorial imbalances. Nothing has been done to solve the problem of personal conscientious objection and above all the collection. Nothing has been done to ensure that women can freely sort out what their best way is to interrupt their pregnancy, and to know, and they've done the big picture before the ecclesiastical lobby, which is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.258.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. To answer the word, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, Salut advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.259.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first place, I would like to have a record and also a thank you for Mayor Venturos, who yesterday declared, explained, that he had a mental health problem, and this element is an element that you yourself and yourself put here on the table. Mental health is a priority in our legislature, and, whether we say it or not, mental health is still stigmatized, and the fact of recognizing that today I have to leave an activity or that I have a mental health problem for..., is, I think, something of recognition and grace. [[Greetings.]] For another song, Mrs Estrada, you're right, and I'm bored to have you give the reason, not to you, not to this, but for the motive. No, man, no, just for the motive, because it's true. Not so much because the right is not guaranteed, we also need to recognize it, but because it is not guaranteed with territorial fairness, which is what you have been explaining, and we need to recognize it. And that you know that in my appearance as a member of the legislature, not a week ago, I explained that we have to guarantee this right of interruption, and, moreover, try to do it with the highest territorial fairness, with all, but also with the highest, and now I will also explain why. Obviously, the right is... the voluntary interruption is a right that all women have, and because, as you have also mentioned, we have to compliment the Law of 3 March 2010 on sexual and reproductive health and the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, and because it has also established the resolution adopted in the European Parliament, very recently, now, this very year 2021, in fact, not nearly fifteen days ago, on the situation of health and sexual rights and reproduced in union in the march of women's salvation. And in this resolution, it urges the Member States to decriminalize aneurysm and remove and combat obstacles, the legal practice of aneurysm, and reminds them of their responsibility to guarantee women access to this right. It also urges member states to improve existing methods and eliminate new methods... and examine, forgive, the new methods to offer treatments related to health and sexual and reproductive rights, and to solve the voids, which we have, the voids, and here we are already calling and affecting ourselves, in the service, and also the covid-19, has put forward a manifesto. And it urges the Commission to promote health and sexual and reproductive rights, including the right of aneurysm, in the next strategy of the European Union. Now, this same resolution also recognizes that, for personal reasons, health professionals have a right to conscientious objection. But whatever you say, "professionals or people have the right to conscientious objection. People, never institutions. And you know that, too, I stressed it a lot at my appearance, as I said, a week ago. More. And if some time has happened, not in concrete terms on the subject of aneurysm, but in that of euthanasia, some manifesto, automatically, and you know it, came out a _second manifesto saying: « Escotin, the one who is to do, has to do, and has to complete the law. Therefore, we must also respect this conscientious objection, which I recognize is very high in our environment, is forty-two per cent of the professionals. But we also have to recognize another thing, which is not always connected, as you said, to the lobby of England. Not always. And he also explained to them – and he said it in the first person – because I have been until four days, until one month ago, the director of the Catalan Institute of Health – and we have a hospital, the hospital of Lleida, so we have all the staff legitimately, but all objectors of consciousness, all objectors of consciousness. So, well, that's a problem we're gonna have to solve. And what we have to do here is guarantee this right, territorial also, territorial equity. And if, obviously, we can't do it in Arnau, we'll have to look for it, and we're already alive. In fact, the week you see, I think we'll have solved it, but certainly, certainly, not with the best way, as you expressed, from the point of view that it will be a clinic, a clinic next to, to the same city of Lleida, but that it will not be the proper Arnau. We will work for this, but obviously, the object of consciousness, repeat, is a right that everyone has, and we need to know how to combine these two rights: the right, clearly, of avotion, one hundred guarantees, but at times with territorial equity, that, repeat, is what we do not guarantee, and, at times, the right to the object of consciousness. The X-ray we have or do not have problems, you have done it, and therefore I will not repeat it. We match perfectly in the diagnosis of where we have it or not. You said nothing happened, and that's not true either. That's to say, when we start the year 2010 – when I talk about our other words of Salut –, it starts in 2010 to apply this law. They had to start practicing, God, the voluntary interruption of the pharmacological embarrassment. At present we have forty-two. And, certainly, you also said, March, when the Vergés Councillor was in office, let's solve, for example, the problem to the High Pyrenees, Aran, and we must continue to solve it still in the Seu d'Urgell and some more territories. We have, therefore, a way to go, but it is also true that we have gone on a way. We've got a lot to go on, but we've gone on the road, and we have to comment on that, too. Certainly, we have also gone as far as it is that, at these times, the pharmacological IVE is not the predominant yet, it is not. In fact, if we look at the chart, we can see how since 2010 the pharmacological IVE went up and the instrument went down, which is what we are all looking for, and what between, we wait, two years, these lines get entangled, and the pharmacological, therefore, is what at these times predominates, always under the informed decision of the woman. The decision is the person's, in this case the woman who decides to voluntarily interrupt her embarras, and it has to be a decision, like all of us taking life, and also about our salvation, the best and best informed possible. From this point of view, some data of avortations, of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, therefore, in fact approximately 22,000 per year, in the year 19. I don't have the data from the 20th, I'll keep it right away, but the 19th, 22,000. And that they're a little superior... And that's not a good thing, because before you referred to an element – which I'll refer to, too, later on – that I think you're right. I mean, as much as access to anything that's anticonceptual, less voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. No one wants to interrupt an embarras. The last person who wants to do it is the woman who decides to do it. Therefore, we have to put all these methods in the abst because this interruption is not a gift. Of these twenty-two thousand, almost twenty-two thousand voluntary interruptions of pregnancy, one seventy-five percent occurred before the new week, and the rest occurred between the new week and fourteen, the majority. And these, as you well say, most of them are in these new clinics that you commented and not so much in the centers of the Siscat. From here, there is practically a majority, so it is a fan in the centers of the Siscat and, some of them, the ones with the highest risk, so it is already a fan in very very concrete places. I, therefore, would say to him: yes, you are right, that we do not have territorial activity; yes, we guarantee this right. The fact is that we have gone on the road, we have a lot to go on, in conscious soc and I will work because during this time, the time of the legislature, we go on this road and we can go on the fold. And surely we won't finish all the work we have to do, surely we won't finish it. But, well, this is a fundraiser. So someone else will take one witness and we'll keep working for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.260.0	Thank you, Counselor. Now has the word the deputy Laia Estrada in a replica turn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.261.0	Well, first of all, I thank you, on behalf of all the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - A New Cycle for Winning, which our Companion Montse Venturos has mentioned. We've already made him known, we've told him everything we have to say and we've thanked him for everything he's done. So much good everyone has the same sensitivity that you showed today. In particular, so much good has been done by some of his consistors, Montse, who have not had this sensitivity before what are, therefore, the ills related to the realm of mental salvation. In any case, we also want to make a thank-you... don't run, huh? , time... ; for me perfect... [[The joker laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.262.0	Thanks for letting me know.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.263.0	...that always infaits me. [[Rialles.]] A grace...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.264.0	Right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.265.0	Now, yes, now yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.266.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.267.0	A thanks, too, to the feminist fabric struggled that it is we who think has placed the problem in the center of the political debate, right? , territorial imbalances and territorial hardships respect access to the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. We think that if you hadn't been for the rebound, for the fight played out for these collections, certain passes wouldn't have happened later. And, therefore, from here all our recognition and grace. Just like – I said before and again – the Association for Sexual and Reproductive Rights which, moreover, has now made a web page that is called vullavortar.org that makes public everything that is the circuit. And that for us, it's an indispensable tool, because, as it all relates to the field of salvation, Counsellor Argimon, we think we have a highly opaque, complex and confused system of salvation. And, therefore, this web that they have made from the association is very interesting to facilitate access to the right to the awning. Look, I insist, the right to voluntary interruption of pregnancy is not guaranteed, because it is guaranteed, but not in an equitable way to all territories, it is violated for women who live in certain populations, in certain communities, as I explained earlier. And it's not a deal now that we're arguing if, if not, it's a deal to settle it. And there is one question that we are concerned about, that it is a statement that you, in fact, have made, that is: "We are interested in advancing in the practice of voluntary drug interruption or we are interested in increasing drug practice as well. Or maybe I misunderstand it. I say that we are concerned because, precisely, we have the feeling that many times women are invited to choose this method, when it turns out that it is a method that, in the end, ends up having an impact on women's responsibility, because they practice at home, and not all women can voluntarily interrupt it with their pharmacological methods at home. Some are in a situation of male violence, others are very young and do not want their family members to know it, others do not have anyone who can accompany them and others, simply, therefore, consider it a lot of responsibility and do not want to go through it alone. And, in fact, I put it as an example, to the Health Commission, Canada, to say that there private sanitation is forbidden and they are not communists. We, yes – I've already said it and I'm going back to say it now. [[The joker laughs.]] And I put it back as an example of Canada, because the ninety-five percent of voluntary abortions in Canada are instrumental, they are surgical. For us, therefore, the problem with pharmacology is that, perhaps, the system is interested here in our home to bet on pharmacology, because it is more effective, between comets, it is more efficient, between comets, because it helps to save resources. And that was diametrically in the line of what we claim is to put the women in the center. And we have resources, because the interruption of pregnancy, therefore, for medical reasons, is to say, when there is a risk to the health of the mother or when there are, therefore, heavy malformations of the fetus, it is practice to the referral hospital. And so the infrastructure is there, the professionals are there, and so there are these barriers and these conscientious objections that we think we could start solving with more training in a gender perspective that, in fact, was one of the issues that led to the law of 2010, precisely, this needs to train future professionals in the field of salvation with this gender perspective. This is where we have to move, to a territorial equity, to ensure that a woman sorts out the method that best suits her and is therefore most useful to her. And, the band – already today we don't have time – remains to cover as well, or to finish deploying all that is the policy of sexual and reproductive rights, such as ending up with barriers, therefore, to all that are the methods of contraception; economic barriers, for example, that we have, and that I am sure that the Consellera of Feminisms and Igualtat, the Consellera Tània Verge, will also be happy to contribute to advancing to all that is the conquest of the sexual and reproductive rights of Catalan women. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.268.0	I've got the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.269.0	Madam President... Mrs Estrada, about the pharmacology, it is not what I say if it is better or worse, but the fact – and I do believe that I have emphasized this – that the woman makes a decision as informed as possible, and therefore, following her decision, as any other decision on the salvation that we must make any of us. In this sense, too, the fact that the protocol that is being reviewed at these times, we are reviewing, indeed it contemplates extending the term of the pharmacological treatment – is contemplating it – also in the field of the hospital. That, of course, because it will require a certain... And this is the element that you said, that we are all aware of: if you're a male-based rape artist, so obviously you're not interested, surely, you're not interested..., "you're not interested..., I mean, you can't do it at home. Or all the other elements that you have commented, and therefore there may be a lot of people there than what you prefer is an instrumental method. But also from this perspective, if we follow the pharmacology, especially until the twelfth week, that this can be done already around a hospital, more than just because you will need a short term – sure, short– but a term of observation – first element. Second element. What you have said before, which is very and very important: the fact of saying if we improve the methods of contraception, or if we do, access the methods of contraception, with this we can lower the IVEs – the voluntary interruptions of pregnancy. And before I mentioned that from 18 to 19 we went up, and that's not good – it's not good. So, here, we, the one we're planting, and the one I'm planting right now, is a plan of better contraception for those people who have had a voluntary interruption of pregnancy and who are in a vulnerable situation, for example, in women up to twenty-nine years. May we, from this point of view, offer, in this program, methods of contraception that allow us, from this perspective, not to interrupt at the length of your life other embarrassments. Because, even though it doesn't seem like us, it's almost one..., people who have interrupted their embarras, a twenty-i-five_per_cent..., a twenty-i-three_per_cent, forgive, twenty-i-three pulling twenty-i-four back to having a second interruption, and that's not good. When I say it's not good to say what I said before: no one wants to interrupt an embarras, and the last person is the person who has to make this decision. Therefore, this plan of improvement of the contraception – until the twenty-nine years, women with vulnerability – that would have an approximate cost, has an approximate cost of 1_million euros and that we can face today, we can face and start in the last quarter. Last but not least, it's not always easy, is it? I mean, for example, now – and that's what I've left before – I said before that Lleida needs a paper. It will not be the one we, the one you want or the one we want, which is done to Arnau, but it will be at Lleida's clinic as well. But, for example, at Berga Hospital, we will begin to make IVE between the hospital. And it's not because she handled the port of ICS and before it was another kind of management, it was a hospital... no, it's not because of that, it's because she changed some circumstance. But we already have a lot more territory where women won't have to move. And we've got a lot left, I know. That's what I said before, we're on our way back. And, well, here we'll do it together, whatever we can. And, for my part, nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.270.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the social situation]] [[300-00023/13]] Let us now turn to the desire of the order of the day, the question to the Government on the social situation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. The honourable Member Raúl Moreno has the floor to make the presentation of the inquiry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.271.0	Well, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, President. Counselor, the question period begins; this is also good news, because it means that we are in the market, that we are in the works. In fact, for what it does to social policies, it is urgent for us to stand in the way and make ourselves work – we take a lot of time to stop. And the solution is not magic, it is not unique, there is not a single solution, a single policy that allows us to get out of the situation we have at these times, which is very difficult, from the social point of view in Catalonia. About 15.8_percent of the households are in a situation of social exclusion; 950,000 people are in a situation of severe poverty; Catalonia was the autonomous community with the most denomiments in the year 2019, 12,131; one_of_each_three children and adolescents are at risk of social exclusion; we are the fourth autonomous community with the least expenditure per person living in social services, about 276_euros, and, as you know, leaders in the list of expectations in dependence, quarters in days of hope for a benefit. I, as Mrs. Vilalta said this late, for something will be. And surely the raons are different. Some of them can be found, therefore, in the consequences of the 2010 crisis, of which we have not yet come out, also from those which are incorporated with the crisis of the covid; that our system, our labor market, is a volatile market, it is not stable, there is a lot and a high temporality; that the housing, which makes its access, but also its maintenance, is one of the real problems, we do not have a market of logger that allows you to compete, from the point of view of the prices, with the private market and, therefore, that can make the young people and not so young can access a logger habitat in dignified conditions. For what it does to our protection system, it is based primarily on social benefits; this makes it very low or has very little influence on reducing inequalities in our country. And why didn't other things happen during this time. We have approved and non-developed childhood laws; under-funded, saturated, professionally cremated social services, facing very complicated situations without the necessary resources; social details in the field of health, education, social services; no reversal in processing, no innovation in the processing, at all, of the law of dependence, as they have indeed held other autonomous communities; zero_euros for building one hundred_per_cent public residences in the years to come. I say this because, of course, there are some examples that have to be made exactly because we are in this situation, perhaps also because we have no assumptions, we have only the ones of 2017; the ones of 2020..., this year you have given up on assumptions and, therefore, this will cause the recovery, the necessary economic recovery, not only from the society's conjunction, but also from social policies, to be made for a few months more. Look, we don't want to resign to this situation, and I understand, Madam Counselor, that neither do you, and I hope you don't. That is why you have taken this responsibility, which is very important, from the point of view of the Government. You need time, you need resources, and you need an important boost to try to do what your own governing partners have not done during these two years. You are not..., you are not part of a new government, you are exactly the same as those who have been ruling Catalonia in the past two years, with different logos, with different coalitions, sometimes with the CUP collections, sometimes with the commons' collections, actively, passively; but in the end, you have been co-authors of the situation in which we find ourselves. It is not the only ones responsible, it would only be missing, but the inaction makes the data remain what it is, at these times, and, therefore, we are at a time when Catalonia has more economic resources than ever before, thanks, in this case, to the girl transfers by the Government of Spain, thanks also to the European fund. And she asks you, madame, to advise them to take advantage of them – that they take advantage of them – because they will certainly not find us in another; that in this case I convinced the Councillor of Economy that I invested in social policies in Catalonia. We are on the side of the great country agreements, not any country agreement, not to generate frustration in the city council that the worst is going through, not to pay for the ghosts, so some others are already in charge. We are in the agreements of country truth, of social transformation of Catalonia, with five priorities, with five axes, which we consider to be of fundamental importance and which can be dealt with quickly. The five axes, the first: to ensure that families arrive at the end of the month, therefore, yield guarantee policies; two, fighting against the poor child; three, new residential model and home care; four, strong social services; and the fifth, housing and work as a foundational axis for the social recovery of the city council. I'll just go through some of these policies. For what he does, and he gave it to the committee the other day too..., for what he does to the issue of the return guarantee, effectively, we need the vital minimum income and guaranteed citizenship income to work well; at these times they are not doing it. In the case of guaranteed income from citizenship, we have the second guaranteed income with the most import of Spain's conjunction, but only up to the fourteen_per_cent of the population that needs it, for a lot of efforts that we have increased over the last few years. I would also ask you, please, to make public the data; we have no idea what the subject is like. And it's as easy as putting it on the web, and turning it off, because when you say" 160,000 guaranteed returns is not true, and you know it; but how they don't pull out which of these are 100_per_cent guaranteed returns and which are complements, so we have this difficulty. Will you boost Catalonia's sufficiency income index? Only with this boost will you be able to reach many more people who are in a precarious situation and more people will be able to access the same services that we have at these times. Residential health care: it is necessary to increase health care in those most disadvantaged territories and with more concentration of vulnerable populations. We can simplify the dependency processes to scan the waiting list; just a journey of the two, just a journey, is so easy, we can scan the waiting list in a forty_per_cent only in a year, as other autonomous communities have done. And there's nothing to see with the funding, which I guess after you bring me in and I'll answer the reply. You will revert private healthcare to the residential centers of Catalonia, how did this Parliament agree last year? We've got it on, haven't we? We all voted for it: outside of the private care of residential centers. Will you do it, Counselor? Poor child: caldria fer..., set aside the commission for the struggle of the poor child; someone who will, please, fight against this sacra, one_of_each_three infants. It's just that to me, sometimes people say to me, no, it's impossible, there's not one of every three children... there would be a social revolution; no – no –, what's harder is that there's one of every three children in a poor situation, there's no social revolution, because we also silence the children of this country. Therefore, this is one of the most important tasks you have, such as ensuring the 365-day food pension in the year. You're like the Barcelona Junction, with the tag; this morning they were claiming it, too, we're doing it for all the children of Catalonia, we're making an easy way to get to the services. It has to be made from the Generalitat of Catalunya. We have effectiveness in our social system, counselor. Mental health: at school and out of school, especially in children and young people, they no longer ask for it. They only ask that a child with special educational needs be able to have attention that goes beyond three-quarters of an hour a month in the public system of mental health and that if he goes to "school, if he goes to school, he can have a person of recovery; and that does not happen, counsel, and that generates inequalities. Contract social services programme: extensions are over. Is it compromising you to have a social service program contract the year you see it? If that's the case, please, start working now, because we're not getting there, counselor, we're not getting there. And the strategic social service plan, a good plan. We've eaten two years, this way, and we haven't done it. Therefore, counsel, here you have to make a very great effort to try to get out of this situation that we have at these times. A permanent call, for example, for help in logging, but also the tempteig and retraction, the need to buy habitat. You can buy housing to lower the pressure we have on the months of social emergence. We'll talk about more later, but I remind you of these questions: CIHR, private healthcare for residents; is it a commitment to ensuring food? Some of these concerns, because the other day – I said it – seemed very good to me that you challenged the questions I was asking the committee, and I hope that in this line too, both you and we, as the opposition group, have this possibility that the inquiries will be beneficial. And, therefore, from the maximum respect, but also from the maximum responsibility that gives us public responsibility, demand concreteness to petitions. Thank you, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.272.0	Then you have the word to answer the counselor Mrs. Violant Cervera, social rights counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.273.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Moreno, not yet a week ago we had the appearance in this Parliament and we explained from the department who were the lines of action and the great lines of action. In fact, you said it, I think forty days ago that we're in the department and, as you know, it's a big department that takes on more housing policies. They must remember the commission, that we distribute the policies in three secretariats – the Secretary of Social Affairs and Families, the Secretary of Children, Adolescents and Youth and the Secretary of Habitatage –, and more so, we have assumed the competences of guaranteed income, the whole subject of the law of dependency, the poor... You yourself have made a rest of all the areas of the department, which we are aware of. I believe, and I insist..., as I did on the day of the appearance, I want to thank the work done by the previous governments and also the work done by all the workers in the sector, also from the departments, that I think they have had to finish social policies with the utmost dignity and with the possibilities that they give them the tools they have in hand at these times, that you know perfectly well that they are not the ones we would need or have all of them. He also knows that I share many of the comments he has made to us. I then extended my hand to be able to work together, and I continue to extend my hand to work together because, moreover, it is a sincere extension. But you also know that the social policies of a large and complex country with Catalonia do not end with a pem-pam-pum, with a debate, nor with an appearance in Parliament, nor with an inquiry, nor with a motion alone. I imagine that the inquiry is precisely in order to be able, therefore, to make a motion fifteen days from now that you will ask us to make concrete a series of parameters for the performance of the department, which, I insist, certainly in many cases we will contribute to it, but you also know that we will not be able to put them into practice immediately. Among other things, because we want to talk about modeling, and this time we'll talk about modeling for us, discussing how to execute it, a sincere model. At this point, for example, he didn't tell me about the service portfolio, which we all know should be changed. And I extended my hand the other day in the possibility of being able to modify the service portfolio and do it in a compassionate way, without extreme and surely in those themes in which we agree to modify it, and not wait to modify it in a complete way. Surely this is one of the problems that we have, that sometimes, when we start plans, laws, therefore, we may agree, sometimes, in partial ways, but the great globality prevents us from being able to work together. I don't want to run away from the questions you've asked me. Some may not be able to answer them, or that I want, among other things because at these times we are working on the assumptions. We have started to value from the same department as the assumptions of the department must be before we can present them to the Economy. I already told him we'd try to keep as much pressure as possible. We know that Generation must help us to make structural changes, and we will help those who come from Europe to help us change some of the policies or some of the tools that we are using at this time. I see clearly, for example, the whole informational issue, which I'm sure is very understanding of the waiting lists, and this must be able to help us get it out of the way. You asked me to talk about the poor. It's obvious we have to work for the poor child. We're starting to review everything he does to the program contract. You're right: we should have approved the program contract the previous year. He couldn't do it. From the department it was considered opportune to improve or supplement this lack of new program contract from the additions of the program contract. Well, that's the tool we've used and we've had so far. In me there will be no lack of time or determination to pull it forward. I insist, we've arrived, we've landed with the Next Generation. We are the first department we need to be able to start working, and we are already working, and also in the program contract. I was talking about how we need to connect guaranteed income to vital minimum income. It's true. I mean, the fact that two assists with computer systems – let's go back to the same – differs, this door is complex and doesn't make it fast enough. We have to say that at this point it is true that we reach 160,000 beneficiaries. You're right. I mean, it's not 160,000 people who get the rent directly, it's with the different complements, but it's also true that at these times there's no waiting list on the guaranteed income. Then we can think if... but the law also says what it says, right? Therefore, guaranteed income and vital minimum income, therefore, perfectly in agreement. The whole reason was in the matter of working together with the health system. We've already announced, both the Health Advisor and myself, that we'll make the integrated health and health agency. This must allow us to work, as was done in this later stage of the pandemic, also out of disgrace, together with the Health Department, which will also improve the information systems between the two departments. He was also talking to us about... well, the idea of having a food plate for the themes of the poor child. Since the department we've been working, and you know it, with third-sector entities that help us fill these gaps. Just remember, to the Red Creu, 4_million euros. Also expand the game for the covid theme. Mental greeting, totally agree; we have to work in the matter of mental salvation and we have to work together with the Health Department. And it's also true, we have to work with the Department of Education on the program contract, so I had already commented on it. And about the strategic social service plan, so I also agree with you: it's a good strategic plan, that we take it and we'll try to take it to term and develop it. There are other things that have been done. President Torra, for example, worked with a group of experts on strategy 20-22. If they haven't read it, I recommend they do. I'm going to interview the proprio motivating group, because I think there's been a lot of work involved and that they can also give us interesting ideas so that we can get along with our social workers, so our country. And, well, you said to me: "He will talk to me about financing. Well, you hinted at this. I... it's true, we're talking about financing. We have a hard financing problem, and you yourselves recognize it, even though it's in denial. I will tell you one thing: I as an independentist will always defend that the best financing model for our country in order to guarantee quality social services is the independence of our country. [[Some applause.]] You, surely, as the person who is autonomous or federalist, will interpret or decide what we need to improve the financing system. It's not incompatible one term with the other. I will continue to defend independence, so you can help us to have a better system of financing, at least that is just and necessary and that can, therefore, fill this lack that we have and this fiscal deficit that the Councillor of Economy places, therefore, in the 22,000_millions. Therefore, in the next part of the reply I will continue to explain to you which are the lines of action of our Government. But, I insist, the extended hand is sincere and we will work, and I am sure that we will work well, therefore, throughout this legislature. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.274.0	Then, to make the reply, has the word Mr Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.275.0	[[The deputy starts talking without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] Now we've been talking about it, haven't we? Every week, the tax deficit goes up in thousands of millions of euros, right? Okay. The one who surprises me, will advise – and thank him for the whole answer, eh? – it's that I didn't refer to the social welfare plan. That is to say, here President Aragonès explained to us, in this chamber, that one of the things they would put into the market is a social security plan of €700_million. You yourself referred to TV3, in an interview that they did, and said that they were preparing, that they were working on it. I'd like to know what the shoal is like. Yes, because normally a sham plan is to do something that's urgent and we're already a few weeks away, not to mention a few months ago, that people, therefore, are waiting for their government to give an answer to a very difficult situation. And for the moment we don't have this timing, this social shock plan. I don't know if it's the same one we talked about in the previous interview, that I had to see with the job, or it's a different one. I don't know if you have also participated, like Social Rights, in the configuration of what work policies should be like. I don't know who the government's coordination was; in any case, if you have more information and you clarify it, I'll appreciate it. In the motion we will concretely. Yes, we have..., this vice that we sometimes have those of the PSC and the Socialists - Units per Avançar, of concrete. Because the great speeches... we already have a lot of great speeches in this Parliament, and yes, we want it done, and I think people are asking us to do things, huh? Beyond the speeches and the encouragement and things like that, huh? The Social Service Portfolio, miri, surely there is no promise more voted in this Parliament on behalf of all parliamentary groups than the reform of the Social Service Portfolio that is frozen – frozen – since 2011. And, of course, they've gone through two crises, huh? Now, if you're saying, "No, no, we're going to do it in trossets. Listen, I'm the same, okay, but let's do it. Let's do it, even if it's in parts. But it just doesn't hold, because it's the ball stick of our social service system. Do it. Information system next generation. Okay. The information system from the point of view of social policies is absolutely essential. If we don't have efficiency in managing it, we won't give a good service. If we are effective in managing it be effective in resources, we will reach out to more people, with resources much more focused on what means a quality attention to the city's conjunction. We need to modernise ourselves – we need to modernise ourselves. And, about the financing of dependence – I said it here, you can review my previous interventions – obviously, there was on the part of the Government of the State, at the time the People's Party enters, a davalada of the entrances to the law's care of dependence, because they consider it a model that can be donated by the private enterprise and that can't be given by the public; it's more, if the public doesn't give it there will be more private than they can give this service. And from here, the financing was detailed. In the two later years, with the gathering of many of the parliamentary groups of this chamber approving the assumptions of the Government of Spain, they approved among other things the increase in the annual financing of the law of dependence in 600_million euros, both for what it does to the agreed part as to the financing of the law. In the month of his generation, the autonomous communities, also Catalonia, approved the plan of dependence, which increased the resources of the law of dependence in Catalonia, the second autonomous community of all Spain than more resources for dependence. Now, me, the only one I'm saying is, can you stop crying and start doing something? They can stop crying, because the problem of financing is from all the autonomous communities, and we are at the top. What else did they do to stay out of the box? Modify processing. And this, which we have asked here a thousand times, has not been done in Catalonia. That's why we have Spain's highest waiting list at these times. People have to wait a half-day of 546 days for a benefit; the vast majority of them die before they do. So, a little dignity. Menys cry and work harder on topics of dependence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.276.0	Then the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.277.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Moreno, I'm not mad. [[The councilwoman's laughing.]] It is that, of course, it ended there..., says: "I ended the intervention and I must finish angry. That he's not angry, that I've recognized him some of the shortcomings that we have as a government and you have recognized me... now, too, later, he has recognized me, so there's a financing problem in the law of dependency. It's the truth. I mean, I know a lot about it, and I'm telling you, from my point of view, it wasn't part of what I said to cry, to cry, because I cry, but I cry for other things, not for something that's real. I mean, the generality allocates 1,400_million euros to the law of dependency, of which only fourteen_per_cent puts the state, and that's it and that's it. [[Some applause.]] And so much was different. And if in place of the state put the fourteen by certain laid fifty per cent, which is what the law says, we would have much more resources. It is obvious that the law of dependence one of the problems it has is the processing, the valuation..., let's stay there the name we want, that this, therefore, makes the waiting lists worse. But even if we had all this right, we would have the people valued, but we would have them, so, because the resources, unfortunately, are who they are. The Department of Social Rights has a presumption of 3,000_million, of which 1,400 go to the law of dependency. And that's it. The 430,000, therefore, go towards guaranteed income. And, of course, and all that is the law, the law of dependence, which, I insist, I have already commented on in the appearance, that it is a law that, in addition to being poorly financed and poorly planted, invades the powers of the Generality. And, well, we already have it, but it's underfunded. Okay. We have to try to fix it. And I also said that the other day, we will look at the experiences of the State or Europe that are needed, to look at which are the best experiences to improve our processes. No problem. He was talking about the rock platter. I didn't talk to him about it because you didn't ask me about it. The shoc plan is a government shoc plan, and, therefore, all the councils that at these times, therefore, have something to say on the shoc plan, will implement policies on the shoc plan. In our case, that we already have the policies, therefore, very clever, we have increased the program contract with all the additions, we have increased the call for subsidies– certainly, tell him that the resolution of the call for subsidies of the department has already emerged–, also increased the guaranteed income... Well, every department that has social policies or linked to people, will use these 700_millions to be able to implement its plan of work. But going into the future and reaching out to my hand, as I have been there since the beginning: already advancing it, this late, while preparing the inquiry and after commenting on it with my department team, we have proposed to the parliamentary groups that they support the government to make the request for the creation of a working group to be able to debate together with you, with the local world, with the entities that must be this new model of personal autonomy that we all claim. I no longer propose to make a law of personal autonomy. I don't know if we're gonna do it. We'll see, after these jobs, whether or not it's necessary to do it. But I think it's best to find us in a serene and peaceful way, in your parliamentary office, in your committee, to be able to talk to the entities, to the local world and to all of you to define who our model of personal autonomy is, and that this must affect the great people, the dependent people, the people who have problems of mental salvation... Well, to all those people who need public resources at these times and who need to think how we want to last them to end. And that I insist on what I also said in the appearance, I believe in personal autonomy and the right to decide; so that each person can decide who is the care resource he needs at every moment. Therefore, the place to which they also signify the convocation or creation of this working group, and let us work together. We work in your parliamentary office on the best you believe and believe in society and also in the local world, with which we must work together, also through the program contract and the tools we have, as we want the social services of this country to follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-07-07-0901.278.0	All right. So we'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you.
