ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.1.0	Very nice late. If you can occupy your escons, please, we'll start this Ple. [[Condol demonstration for the death of an agent of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra]] Before the Ple began, he wanted to mention a fact that he had found a place today. This middle we have known the death of an agent of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, a member of the Unit of the Subsol, who was conducting training maneuvers in speleology at the Natural Park of Sant Llorenç del Munt, in Matadepera, and who has lost his life. I want to show my most sincere condolences to his wife, who is also a member of the Squad Moose Cos, to her family, friends and companions, as well as to all members, naturally, of the Subsol Unit and to all the Squad Moose Cos. After the general policy debate held last week, with this plenary we will resume the ordinary sessions of Parliament. And I wish that this session period would continue to benefit, with a serious debate, respect and construction. A debate on tothom, from the absolute diversity of positions, can project his own country visit to the institution representing the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, through a debate that is respectful and enriching. As long as this is possible, it is necessary to remember that all the Members of Parliament are acting and respecting what is laid down in the Rules of Procedure and the Code of Conduct, namely paragraph 7.2, with which we have completed the general policy debate. Representing citizenship through a free debate, defending different ideological positions and reaffirming them through the vote, must be the reason for this Parliament and, therefore, I wish that, with our action, we follow all its guarantors. Also before the beginning of the session of the order of the day, I must warn you that the list of questions to be answered orally in the plenary is included in the file of the plenary of which all you have and that, in accordance with Rule 164 of the Rules, they will be replaced tomorrow morning at nine, as follows from the order of the day of this plenary session. [[Compliment of Motion 111/XII, on rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the policies of achilling migrants]] I also inform you that as a compliment to the establishment of the Movement 111/XII, of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the rescue operation in the Mediterranean and the policies of gathering migrants, according to the official data of the International Organization of Migration, since the beginning of 2021 there are a total of 1,445 people who have lost their lives or are missing in the Mediterranean. And finally, in this anticipated chapter, in conformity with the agreement of the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen on the holding of sessions still in reduced format, at the same time as the pandemic circumstances for the covid-19, the adventurous fact that sixty-five Members have delegated their vote for today's session. [[Composition of the Bureau of Parliament]] [[398-00001/13]] And then, let's start with the first point of the order of the day, which is the election of the vice-president according to the Bureau, at the time of the resignation of Mrs. Eva Granados. In order to proceed to the election, in accordance with Rule 46 of this Regulation, the vote shall be taken by means of papers, which shall be deposited in the ballot box which we shall place in the Faristol with this purpose. According to Rule 44 of the Rules, each Member has to write a name to the paper and he will be elected to the one who gets a majority of votes. They shall be deemed null and void unreadable papers or papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers without written indication will consider blank votes. I remind the House that the members of the Government who are parliamentarians and also the members of the Bureau will vote at the end. And now I pulled out a ball from which we'll start the voting order. We'll start from number 62. Therefore, I ask the third secretary, Mr Pau Juvillà, to begin the call of the deputies. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Pause.]] Call it a vote. It was the first point of the order of the day. [[The president laughs.]] We've already started the Ple. [[Long break.]] Please, secretaries, proceed. [[According to Rule 101.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The deputies who are members of the Government and the members of the Bureau are called at the end.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.2.0	Once the vote is over, we will now proceed to the polls to find out who has been elected Vice-President of the Bureau. [[It's going to the polls.]] The final result of the vote was 68 votes in blank, 11 votes for María García Fuster, 9 votes in null and 46 votes for Assumpta Escarp Gibert. Therefore, she was chosen first vice president of the Bureau..., she forgives, second, I had it written badly. The first vice president lets me know that you're... [[the President-in-Office of the Council]] Vice-President second of the Bureau has been elected the deputy Mrs Assumpta Escarp Gibert. I ask you to hold your position at the table as a sign of acceptance of the charge. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Question to the Government on the exercise of the competence of public security]] [[300-00038/13]] Let us then turn to the next item on the agenda, which is the question to the Government about the exercise of the competence of public security. Presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word to make the presentation of the inquiry the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.3.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to express the condolences of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group on the death of the agent of Mossos d'Esquadra who lost his life in this middle in Matadepera. We have just entered the autumn and already seems a classic: once again we are forced to talk about public security, to talk about the exercise of public security competence entrusted to the Generalitat of Catalonia by the delegation of the State, by the delegation of the Government of Spain. Today, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we ask the government, in the person of the Home Secretary, without losing sight that the most responsible for the effective, faithful and loyal exercise of public security competence is the President of the Generalitat. The President of the Generalitat is the most responsible, because according to the law he exercises the supreme command of the instrument that the Generalitat has at its disposal to exercise this competence: the Police of the Generalitat, the Mossos d'Esquadra. The Government of the Generalitat, through the Department of the Interior, in accordance with article 149.1.29 of the Constitution, article 13 of the Statute of Autonomy and the rest of the legislation in force on the subject, has as its mission the protection of the free exercise of rights and freedoms and the guarantee of citizen security. To this end, it shall ensure peaceful coexistence and the protection of persons and property, in accordance with the legal order. The Mossos d'Esquadra Corps mainly serves as the police of citizen security, administrative police and judicial police, all of which are framed in the field of public security, which I recall is the exclusive competence of the State, which, in the case of the Autonomous Community of Catalonia, is shared and exercises on behalf of the State, and as a consubstantial part of the State which is the Government of the Generalitat. To make it clear: when we talk about public security we are talking about an essential service that the competent public authorities, in this case both governments, that of Spain and that of the Catalan Autonomous Community, must provide to Catalan citizens to guarantee their public rights and freedoms, in accordance with our democratic order. In Catalonia, the main instrument with which the public authorities have to provide this service are the Mossos d'Esquadra, the main instrument, but not the only one, nor in an uncoordinated way, and of course in accordance with the constitutional mandate, the statute and that of the existing legislation that applies to it. The Mossos are not the only instrument nor do they have competence in the whole spectrum of the concept of public safety. Are they the main instrument? Yeah, but not the only one. Does the Generalitat of Catalonia have responsibility for public safety in the territory of the autonomous community? Yes, but it is not the only Administration concerned with this concept of public safety. In fact, the main concern remains the Government of Spain, and the State Security Forces and Bodies have exclusive competence in this area, which have been exercising and must continue to do so with absolute normality. The Statute of Autonomy, Counsellor, makes available to the Generalitat an essential instrument which, unfortunately, is not being used on a regular and loyal basis with the general public. All citizens, counselor, the recipients of the essential service provided by public administrations in this field, in the field of public security. I mean – you've already guessed, counselor – the Catalan Security Board, a meeting point of an equal nature with which the President of the Generalitat, the successive Presidents of the Generalitat, should coordinate the exercise of competition with the forces and bodies of state security and with the Government of Spain. For one reason or another, there are always excuses for not meeting this coordinating body, which, in our view, is of vital importance in improving the service provided to citizens. And I don't mean there's no police coordination, there is. What I am saying is that this police coordination takes place even in spite of the political will of those responsible for exercising the competence of Citizen Security. Both the Government of Spain, which too often leaves office, and the Government of the Generalitat, which intends to exercise its competence without taking into account the effective distribution of competence, and without seeking coordination from institutional loyalty. Both leave much to be desired on this issue, that of loyal and effective security cooperation. If there is coordination, there is coordination, it is mainly due to the will and good doing of the police commanders dependent on both administrations, the national and the autonomous. But let's talk about issues of rabid current, rabid current for several autumns, several winters, several spring months, several summers..., come on, for several years. The first, and perhaps most important, the Government's null commitment to maintaining the prestige and morale of Mossos d'Esquadra's body. And you will tell me, counselor, that it is not true, that the commitment of the Government of the Generalitat to the Mossos is total and unbreakable. Look, counselor, don't tell me. Tell it to the hundreds, to the thousands of agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps who feel like from the Administration of the Generalitat of Catalonia, and from other Catalan public administrations at the local level, the principle of authority is undermined and their professionalism and democratic commitment to security is questioned. As much as they deny it, counselor, that is the reality, a reality seen by the fact that you, and the government to which you belong, have used the Mossos as a currency of exchange to close an investment agreement, and even of government, with the parties and organized groups that support your government both in this Parliament and outside it. To what is the review of the public order model? Because that's what it's about, to lower the law and order model. Because, despite the chronic shortage of material and human means with which to maintain peaceful coexistence, in the face of the deliberate action of groups and groups that seek to alter that with markedly incisive and totalitarian approaches, the Mossos d'Esquadra are left behind to ensure public order and maintain the conditions required for coexistence in peace and freedom, in accordance with the current democratic order, and that we have given ourselves among all democrats against the totalitarians who want to subvert it through violence. When have we talked about reviewing the police model, that is, the public order model? When the Mossos d'Esquadra, in defense of democratic normality, and the conditions for the exercise of their rights and freedoms peacefully by the citizens as a whole, have laid before the violent groups and groups which, with the excuse of defending an imaginary republic that you yourself claim to proclaim, and which does not exist – does the republic not exist, does it sound to you, counselor? – they try to sow chaos on the streets, sometimes with the connivance of those in charge of the competence of public security, the competence to guarantee public order. It's a real scandal. But it's your political will, counselor. Will they continue to undermine the principle of authority and question the professionalism and democratic commitment of the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps? Will they continue to consent to the proliferation of concentrations and demonstrations that end in aggression and harassment of security forces and bodies? Not just the Mosses, but also. In this sense, counselor, it is not reception that you yourself relativize these aggressions and that harassment, as you did a few days ago following the altercations led by hyperventilated guards in front of the building of the Chief of Police of Catalonia, in the Via Laietana of Barcelona. After we could see in the media the scope of violent altercations, you cannot go out and relativize the facts and say that ‘worst things have been seen. A subtle way to tell the cops and their stalkers that there's no such thing as that. A blatant way of telling the police that they suffer aggression and harassment by unbrained, hyperventilated and violent elements goes to pay. A direct way of telling the brainless, hyper-ventilated and violent people who attack and harass the police, who are still within the margins of permissible violence, in the interests of alleged rights of concentration and expression, which, as soon as the attacks on authority that represent the police concerned have occurred, cease to exist in the eyes of democratic law. And you, if you claim to be democrats, should never allow it. I may be tempted to say I'm overreacting. I tell you, too much patience with the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.4.0	Next, the word "Interior Counselor", Joan Ignasi Elena, has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.5.0	President. Allow me also to start, so, as did the president, and also the deputy, accompanying in the feeling and showing the support – which I have had the opportunity to do personally – to the family of the agent of the Subsol Unit. The truth is that there has been a very unfortunate tragedy of a person, more than an agent very involved in the life of the Cos and also in the solid activities of the Cos. They have the opportunity to see 'ilen the solidarity calendar of 2021, in which there was a lot of active participation. In other words, a very hard day for the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad And, allow me, I have three interventions today, and perhaps something I don't answer, but in any case, I will do it later, because this is the first intervention I make to Parliament's plenary after the summer and I would like to thank very much for the work that has been done during all these months, which have been especially difficult, in the Oris area, to manage the public space as a result of the activities of the night and the situation that has been experienced during all these weeks, supporting public order together in the management of the public space. Also in the management of the covid, which, in the sense of doubt, has made the activity even more difficult and have shown, in this sense, an extraordinary professionalism in the management of the activities of the oci night that have lived in the streets, also at some major festivals and other activities in the joint of the country. Also in the management of the restrictions of the covid and particularly in the weeks of the curfew, they required a very special exercise and effort during all this time. And the people and all the Emergence teams, with whom the team also participated. It has perhaps been the toughest year – indeed, so the experts say – of the past twenty years, and they have done a lot of work on all the emergences of the Generality, together with the others, with the other emergences of the country's joint, and also with the support that we have received on occasions in the State, in some of the fires that have occurred, and so on, the emergences of the country's joint. It seems to us that he was obliged to start with this intervention, and so he wanted to do, especially because he has been, I insist, very hard, throughout this month, the work that has been done by all those who depend on the Council of the Interior – and, naturally, on other councils – to resolve and to be in the case of everything that has gone on. Competition doesn't give us the government. It seems that the Government left us the competence, a stonette, of public order and of management of the integral police of Catalonia by grace of the Government. No, no, no, it's a competition that you've recognized for the State and it's a competition that the Government of Catalonia has been exercising for many years. Twenty-seven years ago, the deployment started, and it's coming to an end. Actually, it's over. And it is a competence assumed by the Government of the Government of Catalonia not for a graceful action but because the laws so determine and because it is also the will of the people of Catalonia who, in this sense, have very often positioned themselves in a systematic way. So, it's not a graceful concession. Nor is it a unilateral decision of the commands that there is coordination of the devices. But this is where you think we are? Irresponsibles? We guarantee the safety of this country. And as long as there is coordination between devices, and it is the government's will that there is coordination between all devices. Another thing is what the government's will is with regard to the competitions that the Government of Catalonia would have to have, that it wants them all. But as far as you don't have them, by the people's responsibility and security, is there coordination with the devices? Of course there is, of course. By political decision of the Government of the Government of Catalonia? Of course there's coordination of the devices, I'd just miss it. What are the local security juntas, which have been systematically replicated across the country with coordination of local police, state security units and forces, rural agents, Emergence System and Squad Mossos? And that happens every day, in every municipality, and they define and do the security strategy of the country's different municipalities. And, besides, with regard to the Security Board of Catalonia, it's known, so we announced it, that before the end of the year there will be one. Because that's how we agreed with the Ministry of the Interior, because there's a fear of settling, fears that they're talking, and that obviously they would require the convening and holding of a security meeting in Catalonia. Naturally. With her participation in the CITCO, we would like to participate directly as a country. But to the extent that, obviously, at these times, the Government of Catalonia participates in it, and participates in all the information that the security forces of the State of the European arrest police have to gain knowledge of which is the reality of international terrorism, to defend our citizens. I think he has a consideration..., an extraordinary prejudice in relation to this government, and that he draws his line of opposition and his arguments by virtue of these prejudices and not by virtue of the reality that you observe. As he claims, what's behind the review of the public order. So it's more transparent. It is that the police of Catalonia – I have said many times – is a police, a good police, precisely because they do not feel perfect, because they are willing to listen, and to check, and to improve, and to grow together with the reality of the country that is being modified. That and all. And that's why 2013 did a commission to analyze the security system in Catalonia and many things were incorporated into it. I've said it often. Some of the proposals that you or many people like you live as marginals, as radicals, as utopian and as unrealizable, as absurd, as irresponsible, end up feeling the centrality, very often, and the consensus of a majority of political parties. And I've given them a lot of examples, but we could put in the rubber drivers. When he started to say he was going to retire, Mother of God! It was to leave the agents a little more than before the horses. And, on the other hand, there was a consensus in his parliament that most people, deputies and representatives of the people of Catalonia voted in favour of their elimination. Isn't that right? What for now is a reflection debate, it will be, with papers, black on white, actively listening to others, about the future of our country's public security, in a country and at a time when things are changing in such an obvious way. It seems to me that it is elementary that this reflection is to be done, and it would be good that it is done also in the conjunction of the State. It would be good for the security forces of the State to also crack, because they probably would no longer have rubber drivers in their performances. That nothing goes on to listen, that nothing goes on to listen to others actively and try to improve and grow in the active listening of one with the other. And I deny the Major. You base your speech on an assertion that it's false. And from here on out, I'm looking for all your arguments. Neither this councillor nor this government disauthorizes the squadron's moss; so many times I say, so many times I will deny it. But do you know what's going on? That I more than deny it in a word, I will deny it with facts. Why does he know how he's doing on the side of the squadron? They're about to get in trouble. And this counselor is and will be there. But not only that, but also contracting us agents of Mossos d'Esquadra. This is the way to be on the side: renovating the teams, supporting, inverting, putting money on them, putting resources on them and standing on their side; not just with phrases, not just hitting the pit that you're very much in favor of the Mosses, because even though you say it many times if you don't hire agents, you still don't have any agents. And politics is the same, but it is also factual and practical. And soon, disbanded, 689 squad movements that began on the 11th to be in all the commissariats, and the year you see more and the next, to do more and better policy of security to the service of citizens and citizens of Catalonia, of all, and to the defense of rights and freedoms, which is the work of the Mossos d'Esquadra and of this Government, and especially of the most vulnerable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.6.0	Next, and in the turn of the line, has the word the deputy Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.7.0	Look, counselor, I am forced to insist: too much patience that the agents of the body of Mossos d'Esquadra, who see themselves as their political leaders, starting with the Director General of the Police and ending up with the Councillor of Interior, put them at the feet of the horses and are inhibited in the defense of their compensation as public officials in the service of security. There is nothing more to talk about in shorts taken away from the union representatives of the body to realize that this is one of the main concerns of the agents, both of the members of the Mobile Brigade and of the ARRO as well as of the agents of citizen security. A concern that the Government of the Generalitat should dissipate by putting the necessary means and defending and dignified the body rather than undermining its authority. Take in the first person the legal defense of the mossos d'ésquadra instead of succumbing to the demands of its anti-system partner of head; stop giving wings to the anti-systems, also to those covered under its political acronyms. Look, counselor, you've got a lot of work ahead of you. Their priority should never be to weaken the morale of the mossos d'esquadra, it should strive to defend the body and its agents. Prioritizes the proper regulation of the second activity and works for the access of officers to early retirement on equal terms with other police officers. That is a priority that should be taken up by his government. Keep in mind the discouragement that infuses agents with political inaction in the face of the situation they face on the street almost every day. How is it possible that countless files derived from the performance of the Mossos as administrative police have not been processed? What is the face of an agent who handles a sanctioning file when he knows that everything is left in nothing, that everything is left in drunk water? How is it possible that political leaders and members of the Government of the Generalitat do not have a clear, forceful and express condemnation of the assaults and harassment of police officers in the exercise of their functions by violent hyperventilates? If they do, it's with a small mouth and relativizing the facts. How do you think the officers take it under your command? But returning to public security as a guarantee of the exercise of the rights and freedoms of all citizens on an equal footing, the streets are of all, councillor, not only of the separatists, not only of those who can be of their own accord. How is it possible for Meridiana Avenue to be cut almost every day for two years, despite the negative reports of the Urban Guard, despite the violence and aggressions that have taken place in some of the concentrates, despite the discomfort and economic losses suffered by the neighbors and merchants in the area? The answer is clear: they have yellow lace, they are under the umbrella of the so-called Catalan National Assembly and they welcome the Government to which you belong. Systematic violation of the principle of public security, as it undermines coexistence and prevents thousands of citizens from enjoying their right to mobility and from being disturbed by the free exercise of their rights and freedoms. I repeat, counselor, the streets belong to everyone, not just the separatists. The courts of the Meridiana are a scandal and a twisting and anomalous exercise of the right of assembly to the detriment of the rights of many fellow citizens. One question, counselor: Who or who are behind the CDRs? Why are demonstrations and rallies allowed on behalf of these groups that frequently and repeatedly culminate in riots and carnations such as those seen in the last few days in the streets of Barcelona and for months throughout Catalonia? You know that the Directorate-General for Security Administration is failing to comply with Organic Law 9/1983, which regulates the right of assembly. Concentrations and demonstrations whose summonses are not identified cannot be authorized. And you look the other way, favoring chaos in the streets and seriously harming the interests and rights of those who suffer the consequences of their complicity with the hyperventilated bonds and stellate. I remind you that you are a public administration, not a judicial body that can interpret legislation and jurisprudence for the benefit of your partisan interests and the violent supporters of your dessert gelatin republic. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.8.0	Next, the inside counselor has the word, to make the reply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.9.0	Clearly, I'm going back to denying the Major. President – I'm sorry –, deputies and deputies... I'm going to deny the Major again. You draw a mantra that doesn't respond to reality, and from here, you develop an argumentary, but that's not it, that's to say, you follow with the mantra that we weaken the morale of the agents of Mossos... Miri, you know, for example, what weakens the morale of the agents of Mossos d'Esquadra, which you are here to defend? And I had just said that Mossos had become a political police force; that does weaken. They told your group – you didn't, did you? But they told their group – that Mossos had become a political police force. Or, finally, Mr. Rivera came to say, on September 19th, that they never stop the Mosses at anyone who is not of the same political color. That does weaken, and that is partying, and that is demeaning the morale of the agents of Squadron Moss and of any public function. And that's what they said: she was a political police systematically, until she convinced them to say otherwise. Or so, the agents are the same. What's the matter, then? What I want is to get out of this debate down the Squad Coast, and this is my commitment, which I have come to with them, because it seems to me that it is what the police of Catalonia need, which has been submissive to this type of assertion, which seems to me to be entirely unacceptable. Clearly, he's talking about the second activity and retirement. So I think he's talking a little bit about it, with the staff of the squad, because if anything else I've talked to him about is the subject of retirement, and if with any question we've mobilized ourselves more, it's with this. We are aware of the parliamentary groups in Madrid, we are aware of the Government of Spain, to which we have transferred it; we are aware of the Government of Basquedi, which is a supporter..., which already has, the body of the Ertzaintza, and we have spoken with its government because we are giving support to this initiative; we have not talked systematically, telephonically and coordinatedly, and face-to-face, with the outside Government of Navarre, which is also in the same struggle. So, of course, we're behind this, because we're playing a lot; because the year 2030 will have nearly six thousand squadron moss agents standing right at the second activity. And that would place the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra in an absolutely inexhaustible position to manage the integral police of Catalonia; that is why we are fighting for this issue. But from this I have not been systematically reporting to the Police Council meetings – fifteen hours of meetings – on this subject on a point-by-point basis; every step we have taken. I think he's talking a little bit to the union representatives or maybe he's just talking to some of them. I wanted to talk to everyone, to explain to him well that this work is being done, and very rigorously. And I know it's hard for me to pass on the subject of the consignors, because I've informed their group. Because if one thing I do is that, regardless of what each of you thinks, I think you are democratic representatives like any other people in Catalonia, and so you need to have accurate information about all the issues, and I told you what happened to this subject. I explained to them that in his day, years ago, that of DGAS, the Directorate General, delegated to the police regions the administrative management of sanctions, and that, therefore, DGAS no longer managed them, but did so by the police regions. And that's the information that came out; that's why it came out that there was no dispatch of any type to DGAS on this issue. And that's what I told the group. The same way I told them that all this information we asked the regions, and that when we have it detailed, systematized, and we have the numbers, we will provide it to all groups and to all trade union representatives, naturally, because they have the right. But that's what I said to you a few days ago, when you learned about this issue at the police council meeting. So, draw the mantra you want, but try to listen exactly and attend exactly to what's done from this counseling. And from here, we disagree what is needed, but we do not invent parallel realities that do not respond to reality. At the side of the Squadron Mosses, naturally and above all, because they are also at the side of defending the rights and freedoms of all citizens, and particularly the most vulnerable, which is the ultimate objective of a country's security policy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.10.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about citizen security]] [[300-00040/13]] Let's get to the bottom of the order of the day, which is the question to the government about citizen security presented by the Joint Group. I have the word Mrs Lorena Roldán's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.11.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Obviously, I cannot begin my intervention without having a few words of comfort too, although at the moment I imagine that no word can help, but from here all my affection, all my support, and, of course, as I say, my condolences to the family of the mosso who suffered today that fatal accident, to their friends and, of course, also to their colleagues in the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps. Well, Mr. Elena, today it seems like we're going to get you to work; there are several questions about citizen security, and I'm not surprised, then, what we've seen, especially in the last few months in Catalonia. I would like to refer to a few questions, as I have had the opportunity to see some of the answers you have given in the previous question; I would also like to refer to one of those points, and then I will go further on the subject of citizen security as such. You were talking, for example, about early retirement, and you also made a speech here, didn't you? , as very ironic, saying that you, of course, will do everything in your hand to make early retirement a reality. But, of course, if all that's in your hand is to get together to talk about Navarra's outlaw police and send a letter to Mr.Marlaska, because I think it's little – I think it's little. And it also seems to me that you have played here with the feelings of the mossos. Because I want to recall a proposal for an agreement, from February 2020 – at the time Mr Buch was at the head of the Department of Interior – where you promised to do all those actions related to the achievement of early retirement. And I have here the extract of that proposal. They said: "To this end, the Government of the Generalitat will provide the necessary budgetary allocations to implement this commitment. You know that there has to be additional contributions, a part that is put by the Administration and another part that is put by the worker, in this case the official mosso d'ésquadra. That was in February 2020. But by July of the same year, 2020, when the final proposal arrived, this little phrase here had disappeared. The Generalitat would no longer be in charge of these games; now you would darken the bundle and lay the blame – or the responsibility, in any case – on the state. With you you have to read well the small letter, because you teach one thing, but then the one you approve is the opposite. Do you really want to fight for the Mosses to have early retirement? For in the coming budgets what you have to do is to budget that additional amount of contributions that goes up, amounts to EUR 52_million, which you have, because you carry a waste of money on other things that are not necessary and, however, you do not want to spend the money for this. Here, then, let the state say it. Also in those small meetings that Mr Aragonès has because it would be good for them to talk about these issues, because it is also that the template is not to throw rockets, and you know it – you know it. According to the data that we have, in the year 2033– from now almost a little over ten years– fifty_and_three_per_cent of the staff will be fifty_and_five years old, Mr. Elena. Then we're gonna have agents on the street at fifty and five years old. If we add to that too because those who have a physical condition problem, the percentage increases a lot more. The subject of early retirement is therefore very important. Firstly, because it is a matter of discrimination against other police forces and, secondly, because we are not going to be able to replenish with the rates we are having and with the promotions we are having. Because I also remind you that from 2011 to 2018 there was no promotion here. That is, it turns out that more than those who enter; among those who ask for leave, among those who change to some other body, because, of course, Local Police because they do have early retirement, they charge better overtime... Well, ultimately, I don't think you're treating the Mossos d'Esquadra well. And, if you really want to fight for early retirement, you know what you have to do: budgets, 52_million_euros. Salary matching with special bodies, three_quarters of the same. We've been fighting here from different groups. A proposal was adopted in Parliament unanimously to equate these bodies, and you reached an agreement; the agreement was suspended in 2010, with the decree law for the reduction of public expenditure, and if I have seen you, I do not remember. Right now there is a gap between Mossos d'Esquadra and special bodies of three thousand euros per year – three thousand euros per year. These people are leaving their skin every day on the street to protect us and defend us. And, I insist, meet your commitments. You said: "Politics are not only words, they are also facts and deeds. So get to work, because it has many outstanding commitments, and the Mossos have already been quite mistreated. You have also had a few words of support and encouragement and gratitude to the Mossos who were on the front line in the worst waves of the pandemic. I tell you... of course, from here too, all my gratitude and gratitude, but let's go back to the same thing, we're left alone in the words. What happened to that extra covid pay that was paid to other frontline officials? That extra pay which, by the way, the Director General of the Police, Mr. Ferrer, promised at the Police Council, when the Counsellor was Mr. Sàmper. To this day, you, with you already at the head of the Department of Interior, have told you that you will not be charging this pay. Yes, Mr Oriol Amorós has told the Mossos d'Esquadra at the Police Council that they are not going to charge this covid pay when they were on the front line playing with their lives, and I want to remember, above all, the time of the closure of Ódena, because it was very important. On top of this, I also tell you that you would have to be ashamed, because not only have you not paid this extra pay, you did not have to implement protective measures either. It has had to be justice, a judgment of the High Court of Justice that has condemned them – condemned – to the Department of the Interior, for not favoring the protective measures for those mossos against the covid – I understand that at that time you were not at the head of the department. But that same sentence also obliges you to do an occupational risk assessment for bacteriological and virological risk, and you have not yet done so. You have been working there on those and you are in violation not only of this judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia but also of the legislation itself on the prevention of occupational risks. Speaking also of occupational risk prevention regulations, I'm going to show you some pictures. Look, this right here is the valls station parking lot. And what you see here scattered is marijuana, marijuana that is seized in various procedures, which is waiting for them to be tried, and you have it wasted by the police stations, in the parking lot, this is another parking lot, also in other corridors. Smells like the police station pulling back, I tell you. This is Valls's, which I know because I'm from Tarragona, but it can go to others because it's also like this. This not only affects the image of the police station, it also affects not only that the object of the crime, which is this marijuana, is not being guarded, but it also violates labour risk prevention regulations. This is against the health of agents. I have more things to take you out too, because you're not protecting the agents. I ask you... – look, I don't know if you're going to see it, but, if not, I'll show it to you closely. This is a patrol car – here goes the side airbag – and it turns out that you have manipulated this side airbag to add here the mammary that goes between the detainee and the agents. As a result, the airbags do not jump. This modification of the vehicles does not appear on the driving licence. And we've already had an accident – which I know at least in Montcada – with an agent who suffered serious injuries to his arm because the side airbag did not jump. I wonder how you're protecting the agents. How can this modification of the vehicle not be included in the driving licence? How can airbags be manipulated to the point that they are unused? This is very serious, Mr. Elena, very serious. And I hope you will answer me, because it seems to me, I insist, of tremendous gravity. Terrible. Let's talk about more things. New vehicle insurance policies do not include legal defence. Any policy – and surely those who are here, know it – carries that legal defense. The one of the Mosses, no, because you have saved yourself a little money between these policies and the previous ones. Also with the policy covering accidents in a case of total disability or in the case of death, unfortunately. You guys there have also lowered those covers. I wonder: that money you're saving yourself where you're going, Mr. Elena, because that money would have to be protecting the agents. And I'm going with one of the things that I think is the most serious. You were talking here about legal defense, well, you've talked about that you don't weaken the morale of the Mosses. Do you know what weakens the morale of the Mosses? The appeal filed by the Generalitat against the sentence condemning Marcel Vivet. Look, I'm gonna read you some of the sentences this minute that I have left. You turn to yourself, the Generalitat, to herself, and instead of defending the mosso, you defend the aggressor. And they say that, well, that, of course, that's that the mosso was dressed with the uniform and the helmet. Obviously. What's going on? That if you wear uniform and helmet then they can hit you there? Is there no problem, Mr. Elena? I ask you why it's what you literally put in the writing. Then, in the five_minutes, I'll read it literally. He also says: "This aggression did not consist in an attack on vital points of the agent. What has to happen to the agent? Where do you have to attack or attack? What harm do you have to do for you to defend rather than defend the aggressor? He said: "The injury suffered by the agent only requires a first optional assistance. I insist: what has to happen to the mosso in order for his department to defend the assaulted mosso and not the aggressor? It is very serious what is in this writing and this is what is weakening the principle of authority of the Mossos. I hope you'll answer me, and now I'll have more to get you out of the replica shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.12.0	To answer, the word has the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.13.0	President, deputy, deputies and deputies... no, work, every day, huh? Every day, not only when I come to Parliament, but I also like it more so that I can explain the work that is being done. Early retirement; you say we're doing a little bit because the only one we're talking to is groups and making headlines and so on..., "in their meetings, disqualifying the president's meetings with the state government. Look, this is about the state government. By the way, this retirement thing would be fixed if you were governed by it. Do you know what's going on? It's that they've ruled a lot of years. I, look, they didn't fix it. They didn't just do it, which was at their side, because that's not up to the generality. And now I'll explain something to you about the pensions you're saying, the contributions. Not only do they not rely on the Generality, but they rely on the law of assumptions. For many years you have had an absolute majority to settle it. So they didn't solve it because they didn't want to solve it. And it seems to me that there's no reason why there should have been a lot of promotions. But do you know why for many years no promotions were made? Of a thing that was called "stabilization law, remember? And who approved this law? What prevented public administrations from contracting? A law also invented for this Parliament? Or was it perhaps a decision of your government? With this, let's say, we should all assume our respective responsibilities, and you, your own. It's working, actually, and a lot, to get the early retirement thing, because there's the future of the Squad Coast, because, actually, as you said, eight thousand agents, a few years from now, they're going to be able to hold the second activity, and if that's not the case, it's going to be unfinanceable. Another issue that's stopped it too, agent hiring, and that's the limit, you know? The limit of moves that is fixed to the Junta de Seguretat de Catalunya. And this limitation was also maintained for many years while you were ruling. We'll try to solve this quickly, too, and I'm sure we can do it. Clearly, he asked me a series of questions about the table, some photographs. With all honesty, I can't challenge them. What I do know... I can't answer it because I don't know where it is or what it is teaching me or who the car is teaching me or who the car is teaching me. And he knows perfectly well that it is easy to contact me in order to report these questions and that I can explain it in another brand. But I guess I had to take the picture, which, in fact, has all the legitimacy of the world to do it. But respect the custody of marijuana, do you know that we can't do it, requisition marijuana and unilaterally decide that it's strips, that it's llença? You know that, don't you? And that sometimes it accumulates a lot, because it's good work and it's chased. And sometimes it accumulates a lot and the courts delay in allowing its destruction, which is normal, for another band, because, in other words, the courts also often go too far. So, you're teaching me some things here that are very good, but if you want to talk about it, you teach me, you explain exactly where it is, and then we can make it clear. About what he said about legal defenses. I've explained it so far. What we consider is that it is necessary to defend the movements of the squad in the same field of action and in the same space that is defense all the public functions of the country: it is the Central Judicial Cabinet. If you consider that the Central Judicial Office of the Generality doesn't know, wants, can't, sends or wishes not to defend the squadron's movements, we can assess it in a while, you know? And so I've expressed it to all the people I've talked about on this subject. We give confidence for a while, don't we? Give me room for doubt. Why are there some lawyers who would defend more and better on squads than others? I don't understand. I don't see it. And anyway, in time we'll see if that's it or not. And in a few months, we'll go over it, see what the result is. Now, from the start, for example, squadron movements, for seven days in the week, have legal service for questions that I have. Until now, there were five of them. Yeah, yeah, until now it's five and now it's seven. Therefore, some better, from the start, they have had legal defense in their own, as for another band it must be that there are attestations seven days a week, twenty-four hours, for as long as it is necessary. And don't say he's not defending a squad move. And you don't think it's no defense, and you're defending a person, and not the Squad Squad Squad Squad, because that's not true. Or is it you who have to say what is the criteria and the penalty to be demanded for a given performance? Is that better than five, God, fifteen...? Do we have to say that? Or do the legal services have to say that? And it's defense more to a move if it's a much higher penalty? "The higher the better. Jumping through the air the principles of proportionality, which they consider the lawyers, certainly. Please try not to make a fuss about these questions, which are very sensitive. And it seems you're neither fair nor refuse to do it. With regard to the defense we do or do not do of the movements of the squadron, you also reiterate the mantra that has also been systematically perpetrated from Ciutadans: "We do defend the movements, not like you, that do not defend the movements. I'm sorry you're doing the same thing I told Mr. Matías Alonso. There are things we've never said to them, and their party does. His party has said, textually, that the Mossos should be intervened. Remember? That does discourage the moves. That the Mosses do not do anything to stop who uses explosive rubber-2 on September 23, 2019. I would say that all this is politicizing and... no, "politicizing no, let's not blur the word "politicizing, it's subtly subtlying the Squad's Stitch to the lower political fang, and it seems to me that this is not to be allowed. And I'm done with the theme of retirement. Let us not combine the right to early retirement of squadron movements and, therefore, with the complement that the enterprise can put, in this case Generality, to make voluntary retirements before the time, with the right to early retirement that Ertzaintza has. It's two different things. And it would be good if I made myself clear, because then, when we go, sure, together, to the Congress of Deputies to defend it in the proper general assumptions of the State, we will not say different things and say exactly what is needed. We're negotiating with the state, which is who they are, in this case, the last word. During the years when you ruled this was impossible. We trust that in this or other circumstances, because we will continue to fight in any case, this early retirement from Mossos is possible. I repeat, I have said this since the first day: if there is a theme, one, one, from the economic point of view and the future of Mossos d'Esquadra, from the point of view and from the economic dimension, which is relevant, the most relevant of all – and so I told the president the first day when we talked about it – it is that of early retirement. Everything you can do, then, despite the fact that when you had the opportunity to do it, you didn't do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.14.0	Next and again, Mrs. Lorena Roldán has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.15.0	Yes, thank you, President. Let's look at a topic, Mr. Elena, because you told me you don't know what marijuana station I'm talking about. It's the police station in Valls. But I'm worried about something else: don't you know what's going on in your stations? Don't you know what state your police stations are in? Do you not know that they have marijuana thrown through parking spaces in the hallways, which the marijuana police station smells, that the object of the crime is not being properly guarded there and that labour risk prevention legislation is also being violated? You don't know that? Because it's your responsibility, Mr. Counselor, not mine. I, if you like, make you an advisor, because I see you don't control much of what's going on inside the department. That's it, first of all. So take a look at the police stations to see what they're in. Also ask about those patrol cars that the airbag has been manipulated and have no side airbag. Ask. This officer, that Montcada patrolman who had an accident with the vehicle and who suffered injuries precisely because that airbag did not jump, is also reported. I insist, if you like, that I make you an advisor, because neither you nor the so-called 'alternative government' seem to know what is going on here. It's very serious, counselor – very serious. More stuff. With respect to legal defense, because you're not here... you're missing the truth. Those specialized lawyers that you have now loaded did attend the 24 hours of the day on the seven days of the week. The issue is that you were giving them instructions on which crimes to go to or not, but of course – of course – that you were available, and you know it perfectly well, and it's also that we can go look for those files. You know that. You have now loaded those lawyers who are specialized, who were there precisely because of the specialization and also because of the volume of aggressions suffered by the agents. Because, as you will understand, I do not know how many complaints of teachers there are for having suffered crimes in their own meats, but it seems to me that it will be much less than the percentage of the Mossos d'Esquadra, who are all day on the street playing for life– all day on the street playing for life–, above with the broth of cultivation that is here in Catalonia, promoted by actions like this that they have done with Mr Vivet. Look, it's very serious, and I'm not making up anything at all, because I have here the appeal, which is a real shame, where you're defending a person who has been assaulted – I don't say so, the sentence says – to an agent. Three felonies, had Mr. Vivet. And the Generalitat's own lawyers called for a four-year, nine-month prison for this gentleman. And now, in that appeal that you have filed, what is called for is for the sentence to be reduced to six months and for the penalty to be avoided from going to prison. And he puts here in the sentence – which says it very clearly – that it is ‘for reasons of human character, since a penalty such as the one proposed would make it possible to suspend the penalty of deprivation of liberty imposed, thus avoiding all that this can come to suppose for a young person and without precedent. You are here saying that, to this gentleman, that he has been convicted of a crime of public disorder, of an attack on authority with a dangerous object and of injuries against that mosso d'ésquadra, "that poor man, that he should be punished because, look..., for humanitarian reasons. And to mosso, then, if it happens that others defend it or that they defend it another day, that mosso precisely does not agree with this appeal. No wonder – no wonder –, huh? Because you leave at the feet of the horses to the mossos, and also, by the way, at the feet of the horses to the lawyers attached to the department, who are having to make resources with criteria contrary to those they presented in their day. Well, then, the mosso, as he does not agree that you do not defend them, what has he done? His own lawyer has been sought, as was normal and as was to be expected. When that lawyer has been involved in the case, Mr Elena, the court has, of course, set aside the lawyer of the administration. So, what happened, Mr. Elena? Shall I tell you what happened? It has happened that you have also appealed that decision. You want to remain a part of the cause, and in your writing – and do not deny it because I remind you that you are in parliamentary office, and here you have denied things that I have in writing and I can teach them, so remember that you are in parliamentary office – you have told the court that I gave you sections: "No, no; keep me here, because I am not defending the interests of mosso d'esquadra – I insist, mosso d'esquadra already..., well – I am defending the interests of the Generalitat. Because this gentleman, the mosso d'ésquadra, when Marcel Vivet hit him with a stick and caused him injuries, took the leave, and that caused harm to the Generalitat. That is the defachability that is contained in that resource that you have brought forward. It's a real shame – it's a real shame. That's what I'm saying, Mr. Elena. So at least have here the dignity – I don't know how – of going out and letting go of the word and putting us to the facts. And the facts are that you're not defending the Mossos d'Esquadra. And the facts are that you are undermining the principle of authority of the Mossos d'Esquadra. And then we have to see images like Tiana's. The issue is that when trying to legitimize violence with a writing that asks to reduce the penalty, in the end, such violence is promoted. Protect the Mosses for real, support them for real, defend them for real and stop presenting resources that embarrass all Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.16.0	There's the word "Interior Counselor."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.17.0	President... Member, after this weighting exercise [[remorse of the voice]] I'll try to answer him, but, of course, he told me to lie, he told me I'm ashamed, that... mother of God, poor of me. This is not my intention, with all sincerity, but to give... It is irritating, indeed, that you say that we do not support the Mosses with the amount of things they have come to do and say against this thing. It's irritating that they do it when you've been responsible for no more squadron moss agents as a consequence of their political actions when they ruled. It's irritating that they say falsely here that we've loaded the copies of the judicial cabinet, when they moved to the Central Judicial Cabinet. What do you think, they're not as lawyers anymore? It's just, of course, the feeling is that... what do you think that's what we've done? We've transferred them to the Central Judicial Office. Do you know what the Central Judicial Office is? The guarantee of the legal service of this institution. Now, I repeat it, as I said in the area of the Police Council: can we value it in a while, see how it goes? And I repeat it..., and I talk to all the unions, not just with someone, not just with the ones who have the best relationship, not, I talk to everyone, about this topic, about the five days and the seven; you see, I think they would explain it well that there was no legal service for five days. They have repeated it and repeated it to the Consell de la Policia; it is in action. I have nothing more to say. That's it. Now, you can go on repeating the... When it refers to giving support to Mossos and talking about Tiana, does it refer to the gratitude that the Mayor and the Commissioner of the Prize made to support the council for the altercations that were produced in Tiana? So yes, this is the way we have to give support to the Mossos. I'm always sitting there and standing next to him, so they recognized us. And it's that, yeah, I don't know all the commissioners, you, but there's not a hundred of them, you know? , facilities. And I'm a hundred days old and I've visited more than 20. I'll go to all of you, huh? But if you show me a picture here and tell me there's a car that I don't know what's wrong with, you know I can't answer it. It's more, just so it would be hard to answer that, even though you were my advisor, you couldn't either. We're following a tight little one. Come here with four pictures taught and seen at this distance and tell me, "And you don't know that? So no, I don't have a conscience. And when you tell me, I'll investigate it, naturally. Now, do you know what the alternative is? Ask for resources, as this government will do. Do you know how she's doing? Buying material and buying mediums, as will this government. Do you know how she's doing? Carrying vehicles us, as this government is doing. Do you know how she's doing? With a new uniform, as does this government. Do you know how she's doing? Contracting moves, like this government does. And that's what we've done and what we'll do next. And so it's like she's a supporter of the Squad's Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra, I repeat, she's not raising her eyes, she's not saying big big sentences, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter, she's a supporter. And that's what the Squad Mosses feel, I'm not absolutely convinced, convinced, that's it. And so they'll hear it every day, because it's our obligation and because we work like this. We're making mistakes, but we won't accept anyone saying that he's more of a defender of the Generality of Catalonia's Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, of the public officials, so you can say more louder words in this faristol. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.18.0	The next item is the question to the Government on security presented by the VOX Parliamentary Group. [[Question to the Government on security]] [[300-00045/13]] He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Antonio Gallego. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.19.0	I too would like to begin this intervention by expressing our condolences, our condolences for the death of the mosso Quim Vila, right? , who passed away today. And so, finally, from here all our shows of affection for your friends and family. Counselor, we're also going to talk about citizen security. Insecurity, crime, the incisiveness of vandalism have become a major problem for Catalans. More and more people are afraid to get out of the street. The common people in many neighborhoods in Catalonia know that's the case. I know that, from what I have heard this afternoon, you will deny it, just as the great panicked media deny it, but this is the harsh and sad reality. There are many neighborhoods in Catalonia where people are afraid. It is therefore urgent to address this reality without complexes and without fear. Tough hand, law, order and penal code must be applied. Counselor, it is no coincidence that insecurity is the first concern in many cities of Catalonia, including Barcelona, as its last municipal barometer recalled. Catalonia does not deserve a pusilanimous adviser tied to the demands of the CUP's anti-system and unable to restore order in our streets. We need democratic firmness, zero tolerance with the gentleness that alters the normal coexistence in our neighbourhoods, and that the police can do their work without fear of reprisals by timid politicized leaders. We must restore the principle of democratic authority in Catalonia. The bad guys have to know that here in Catalonia the one who makes the pay. That simple. Our concern, Mr. Elena, is not free, it is not a VOX invention to try to scratch four votes. I'm going to give you some data, because you were talking before you wanted data, because we're going to give you data from the crime portal published by the Ministry of the Interior, and you'll know it. In the first half of the year 21 the Catalans have suffered 176,945 criminal offences– is the latest published data –; 1 murder per week; 265 sexual assaults with penetration– 10 every week, 28_percent of those produced in Spain – ; 8,858 robberies with violence and intimidation– 50 daily –; 7,181 robberies with force at home– 40 daily–, and half of the housing occupations in Spain, also, as you know perfectly well, occur in Catalonia. That data, Mr. Elena, indicates that citizen security policies are not being implemented properly, they are a huge failure. Catalonia has been leading all the crime statistics of the Ministry of the Interior for years. It is the region of Spain with more crimes and more serious, with pandemic and without pandemic. Barcelona is the biggest insecure city in Spain: a crime for every thirty inhabitants. Of the cities with more than 200,000 inhabitants, Hospitalet and Badalona are also among the most insecure in Spain, namely the sixth and seventh in the top ten of Spanish crime. Mr. Elena, aren't you ashamed of these figures? – Aren't you ashamed of yourself? With these figures are you able to continue to deny that there is a security problem in Catalonia? Will you continue to deny that you have lost control of the street? Do you not realize that denying reality all you do is aggravate the problem? It's just that there's no day for one to get up and that between social networks and not see a very serious assault, a serious crime published in them. I mean, it's every day. Really, it's not a matter that you have to keep denying. We believe that this increase in insecurity has an ideological root. Independentists, communists, have attributed order and security to conservative positions over the past few years, playing to be the most sympathetic of the place while looking elsewhere. You have sown chaos – you, huh? , both sides of San Jaime Square – they have not stopped delivering political messages that erode the principle of authority of our police, to which I thank with all my heart their vocation, their effort and their surrender. Mr. Elena, you know at once: demanding security and a firm police force is not of a facsimile, assume it; it is of civilized people that we want to live quiet in an environment where the bad ones do not camp to their wide. It is that the speech this pejo-progre, in short, that they have been bleaching over the last few years, flaunting and prestige, the only thing that has done is discredit the work of the police forces, the Mossos d'Esquadra, the local police, the National Police and the Civil Guard. In addition, you have been undermining loyal collaboration with justice, the National Police, the Civil Guard, by considering institutions outside your separatist dreams and, therefore, non-manipulable. Do you think it is by chance that there are more than a hundred vacancies of judges to be filled in Catalonia? , that every year nine hundred national police and nine hundred civilian guards, approximately, ask to leave Catalonia? Well, that's because of him, too. And you, and I don't tell you any more your fellow members of the CDRs, who don't do anything to fight, defend themselves by occupying houses, assault police stations like Via Laietana and applaud him, rape police patrols, rallies over Civil Guard cars, and you, what do you do? Applauden, smile, jalean. You applaud the taking of airports, train stations, roads; you even sympathize with those who destroy Barcelona day and week too, eh? , and they wield separatist flags, which, as they please you, so you sympathize with all these people. I have seen with my own eyes how they have turned into icons of their toxic movement to violent criminals convicted of justice, such as the little children Hasel and Vivet. I've seen as a pact with deputies present in this chamber... who throw painting with impunity at the face of our Mossos d'Esquadra. We've even seen the assault of this Parliament whitewashed. We have seen convicted thugs turning into party proclaimers, and as they receive here with all honors the expression of "preteu, preteu. So, with all that background, don't you miss it, Mr. Elena, because there are little girls who attack police patrols, burn containers and destroy our streets every night? But don't you realize that you were the first to trample on the principle of democratic authority of our police? Anyway, I also don't want to leave this Faristol without referring to its chaotic, irresponsible and reckless management of illegal immigration. From our point of view, his goodness is progressing, his vision of public order, his well-being sixty-year-old, his roles for all, his "welcome refugees" are destroying the peace and security of many neighborhoods in Catalonia, which have become places where to walk is a sport of risk. His nightly multiculti speech to try to win four votes has also contributed to bringing the epidemic of crime to Catalonia. Since you like data, I'll give you data, huh? I'll give you some data. Aim. The National Statistical Institute says that 25 percent of the crimes committed in 2020 were committed by foreigners. Now I'll leave him, now I'll leave him to the National Institute of Statistics. Here the CSIF Union of Urban Guard of Barcelona says that eighty_per_cent of offenders in Barcelona are foreigners– CSIF Union. The Department of Justice – I will also leave it now –: sixteen percent of the population in Catalonia the year 20 was foreign but forty percent of the prison population was foreign – the Department of Justice. Now I'll leave you a copy too. I this: the eighteen_per_cent of the MENA fall into crime, according to the Mossos – according to the Mossos. Did you push the polyhedric platform to fight the multirecidence of MENA crimes in 2019 by chance? Did they happen to do that? Is the polyhedric plan still in effect? Yeah? Why did they do it? Did they not cause problems? Didn't that collective that the Mossos themselves were talking about one_of_each_five creating problems? No, now, now I'm leaving him – now I'm leaving him. In the year 2019. I mean, we're talking about data that you guys... are all these lines too? Are all these fairies? The Mossos, the CSIF... News published in La Reason, in El Periodico, in La Vanguardia, at the National Institute of Statistics. Yes, yes, I know that for all of you, everyone who says the truth is facsimile, yes. But, well, ultimately, Mr Elena, in the reply we will continue to talk about all these issues. I would like you to enter the bottom of them and not just stay on the four mantras and the four questions, well, on the four insults that we get from VOX always. I'd like to talk about things in depth. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.20.0	Next, there is the words of the Councillor d'Interior, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.21.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... MP, with all sincerity, I prefer an inside councillor to a testosterone, frankly. I think it's much better for the country. [[Greetings.]] I'm telling them with all sincerity. Because, and in relation to the worst-progress thing, it's a very subjective thing, but to me, when I try to look for some of the two sectors, I tend to look somewhere else. I mean, but go ahead, I'm sure we have that defect, too. I won't insult him, and don't say we insult him, because I never insulted them. Yes, you do. Everyone, and everyone who thinks differently than you. Systemically – systemically. I won't insult him. I know it's hard, 'cause then I'd probably have to take over, but I won't, because it's not my style. And not everyone can say the same thing in this room. Falsehoods: Now it turns out it's our fault that there are no national police who want to come to Catalonia, and judges. All right, look, he's got the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior on top of him, because it turns out it's our fault now. Also perverse independence, etcetera, right? All right, take over, our fault. False. It is not true that there is no collaboration. False. It's not true that Via Laietana's police station is being flooded. False, you don't have a device. False, that wasn't effective. Now, of course, we have a concept of security, oysters, very different. Fortunately. But let me tell you something. You know what would be very good, very good, very good, very good? That when the Squadron Mosses, which you defend so much now – now – these Squadron Mosses themselves, when they give them indications in their mobilizations, do not deal with them, because they do so. Remember Salt? That's what they do. These very Mossos d'Esquadra that you defend so much, so much, so much, and had to dissolve. Remember? These very Mossos d'Esquadra that you defend so much, that, to their leaders, they brought them to the courts, not for the U of October, for the 17th of August also. That you're strong, huh? He's strong enough. Miri, we have a completely different concept of security. For me, security is order. Yeah. It doesn't bother me to say that I'm an order person and that I'm in favor of order. But do you know what's going on? That when I think of order, I think of something else. I don't think of your conception of order. I'm thinking of something else. I think of safe barrels; I think of accompanying the citizens at times when they have the most difficulties; I think of a system of emergencies and of security that gives an answer when there are especially difficult situations; I think of defending the rights and freedoms and particularly the most vulnerable; I think of people who do not know who protect themselves from the Raval police station; I think of the agents who are working systematically for women who suffer from male violence, who you deny; I think of so many and so many things that they do day-to-day for the most vulnerable people and that I have the opportunity to see them when they visit, when they come and when they are at their side in their day-to-day work. And I was talking about the ciphers. And then once again his mantra: "It is that we are equal to the crimes and, as they are equal to us, we deny them. But, of course, I'm worried about the crimes. Naturally, I'm worried about the crimes. But things have to get to their place and tell the reality. Is there a lot of crime? Yeah. Are there any criminal masses? From one, there are no masses. That, of course. Now, it is also true that the criminal activity in Catalonia from 2019 to 2021 has decreased to twenty-three_per_cent. Am I happy? No, no, No, because there's a lot of them. Very much. But they have diminished. They're dades. We don't make it up. They're dades. They've decreased to twenty-three per cent, yes. I in July 2021 respect the 19th and the August 19th also respect the 19th. Fortunately, because she's a good worker. But there's not enough. It has to be followed. That's why we want to invest more. And that's why we want to have more moves and we want to have more security. And then you see me with the usual mantra of..., which refers to the..., the denunciations. And he says half of the state's denunciations are produced in Catalonia. And they're half the complaints, but they're not the total of charges that are ordered by the courts. I guess they'll do it right, huh? The judges. Of the denunciations ordered by the judges at the joint of the Spanish State, those who are a fan of Catalonia represent the twenty-two per cent; approximately, a little more of the population we have. And when there's criminal charges arising from these charges, they're the 12th. Are you satisfied? No, especially because there are people who are naked and have nothing to live for. And that's what we're really worried about. Especially. Are also people with a piss and criminal activities busy? Naturally. However, if we go on the road, the problem of housing in Catalonia is not said to be a disgrace, the problem of housing in Catalonia is said to be the people who are denouncing and the people who cannot have a habitat worthy of the social circumstances they suffer. So, we have a radically different view of what... respects your position. I let'mdir a given that seems to me to be relevancy. There's a lot of sexual assault. One? A tragedy. One? A serious tragedy. A tragedy. And sexual assailants keep us in the front, chasing them, for them. They're holding the eighty-five percent of sexual assaults. Eighty-five_per_cent is resolent. We trust that one day we won't have to settle this. But I also want to thank, to the units that are dedicated to these..., to persecuting male violence, the work that they are doing, investigating, detaining and accompanying victims, so that they do not suffer a single victimization on their part..., at the time of reporting or at the time of attending the police station. And a magnificent training job is being done to the officers, because they can do this job with more training, in better conditions and be more useful to people than they are victims. Therefore, a radically different conception of its relationship to security. And here I leave it, because it seems to me that the positions of each of them have become very clear. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.22.0	Next, and in the turn of the line, has the word Mr Antonio Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.23.0	Mr. Counselor... anyway, I told him that I really thought he was going to insult us, because he's insulting us from the beginning of the legislature. Anyway, your colleagues have equated VOX to nacism, you said that we promote violence... Anyway, that's why I thought I was going to do that. Thank you for not insulting us today. I know, I recognize it. I believe that in my initial intervention I have given him a lot of data on the high crime rates in Catalonia, the region with the most criminal offences in Spain for years. Stop denying the statistics, really. Don't hurt yourself anymore. I mean, the numbers sing. Mr. Elena, in view of your answer, it makes me more concerned than I was. You don't stop throwing pilots out, always looking guilty in other administrations... you don't take the bull by the horns and you're still with your young politician to blame everything else. It is, therefore, quite classic of separatism. We tell you again: we want order, law and zero tolerance with the gentuza who steals, rapes, murders or terrorizes neighbors. Let him support the police, let him support our Mosses. That's what the world's most advanced countries do. They have no complexes when it comes to applying zero tolerance to people who break the coexistence, the normal coexistence, in our streets. Recognise you're wrong. His policy is not working well. It's not a big deal either. Denying reality and hiding it, really all they're going to do is aggravate the problem. What image does Barcelona have today? Be honest. Do you have a good image? [[Widow's remorse.]] No, don't worry. Yes, I have said 'franchise; I know you're upset. Be honest. What image does Barcelona have? Good? Do people have no reason to be worried? It's just that it looks like Marseilles ten years ago. Really, take it seriously. Really, take it seriously. I am going to focus on some proposals that we will include in the motion as a result of questioning, right? We're going to ask for several things. One, reinforces the police authority of the Mossos d'Esquadra and the other police officers of Catalonia, who support them politically and legally and do not use them as a clinker when their political interests need it. Increase – as we have said, on dozens of occasions already this legislature – the staffing of six thousand agents in this legislature, who have enough material. I'm glad you said this afternoon that you're going to do it, well, we'll back you up. Back up Brimo, huh? , which support Brimo. And use, when necessary, the water truck, which is not atrezzo, which is not atrezzo. Improve the facilities of the school of Mollet, which do not select their police commanders according to the size of the yellow loop that it carries in the flap; professionalism in the commands of the Mossos d'Esquadra. They cannot continue to negotiate citizen security policies with the CUP's anti-systems. It's a contradiction in its terms, it's like agreeing on livestock policy with the Association of Vegans of Vilafranca. Frankly, no, that's not the way. Activate whenever it takes and where it needs the Tremall action plan, against multi-recidence crime. Stop asking the Government of Spain for amnesty and finally these things that you like, and focus on asking for the tightening of the penal code, the tightening of the law on foreigners, and take the opportunity to ask the Ministry of Labour to reduce the retirement age of our squadron mossos, which we will also gladly support. Collaborate and stop denigrating the National Police and the Civil Guard, exemplary and absolutely democratic institutions. Leave in place the police station of Via Laietana, park your antiCIes speeches. Stop promising paguitas and a false American dream to thousands of Catalans who want to join us to live with us because, frankly, integration is not being done correctly. The so-called effect is causing a lethal effect on coexistence in our neighborhoods. Luchen without barracks in defense of private property and exponential growth of housing occupation. Persons are always involved in all criminal cases in which a police officer is assaulted. Make every effort to combat jihadism, Salafist magnets, forced marriages with underage girls. And we will also remind you that the General Security Board of Catalonia is a body that is well placed to meet on a regular basis. I know he's gonna be meeting from here a few days, but he hasn't been meeting in three years. I mean, I appreciate you going in this direction. And, I end, logically, I don't control the time, President, but what I do want to say to you is a serious plan – a serious plan – anti botellones. What we have seen these days in the streets of Catalonia, not only in Barcelona, in other cities where major festivals have been held has been a real shame that has turned the world around, that distorts and breaks the image of Barcelona and Catalonia, and in that, you have a lot to do and a lot to say. Stop acting pusy and act seriously. Nothing more and thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.24.0	As there is no time, but I will be quick, because we have had the opportunity to talk enough about security issues. It's not that I'm insulting today, it's that I'm insulting ever. Let's get this straight, too, so let's get started. And the American dream, so what do you want me to say? Miri. No, from the safety point of view, so, no. Because I'm very concerned about security and criminal activity in Catalonia, of course, because I have to worry about it, because I'm the Inner Councilor and we have to worry about all the political leaders, but it's that the American dream of..., which is definitely his, of Trump, there was twice as much that there is here, of the crime rate. Therefore, we are interested in the security point of view, I am interested very little, very little. And I was just wondering if there was a testosterone there, huh? But fatal, twice as much as here. It's the reality, the numbers, that you said. These too are good to remember. One of the problems of parliamentarianism is always when, independently of what you tell others, you will tell the second intervention what you have predicted. And then there are interventions like hers, which is like a chestnut or a chestnut I told her. I had decided to intervene, he did, but I had nothing to do with what I told him. So I suggest that you listen to me next time, and so we do that thing so necessary that it's to interlocate: sender-receiver, listen-remain and dialogue. That's what's most important in this Parliament, that's why we are. And I just end up with a couple of questions: 19_million overnight stays in Catalonia, or so, I don't have the impression that there's the feeling that this is an inescapable place; 19_million overnight stays of people from other countries who come to visit us. I don't have the impression that the planet has the perception that our country and its capital is an insufferable place. I don't have that impression, because we wouldn't have so many nights, we wouldn't have them. I'll tell you what, I'm not worried. I'm concerned about crime, naturally, because it's my duty. Now, things are also clear, 19 million overnights. It doesn't have to be such an insufferable country. And let's just make with one thing. I believe that the Squadron Mosses are 'lsha to preserve, 'lsha to take care of and 'lsha to protect, but unfortunately often 'lsha to preserve, 'lsha to take care of and 'lsha to protect from some of his enthusiasts. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.25.0	Thank you very much. [[Asking the Government about the situation of young people]] [[300-00039/13]] Let's get to the point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the situation of the young people, presented by the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Pom. We have had an informational problem with connection to the server and, for that reason, there have been speakers who have made use of the word turn that there is no time. I can give you a timer, because you can see the time or I'll let you know verbally when the time is up. [[Pause.]] He has the word, therefore, to make the presentation of the inquiry Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.26.0	Thank you, President. [[Sounds like an acoustic signal.]] Oh, this is unsustainable. To the nerves, it adds that. Okay. During the last weeks we have seen many news linked to agglomerations, macrobotellots in indirects that go from Bellaterra, Barcelona to the Seu d'Urgell, Calonge, Tiana, etcetera. And since the administrations have not been able to predict this subject and speeches, as always, are going to look guilty. We've already seen in the interventions before that, in fact, it's going this way. On the one hand, we have had reactions that place all the focus in the perspective of security, and even associating it with immigration, as we have just felt now, that it is a classy of the extreme right. On the other hand, there has been no lack of party and opportunist tweets making politics the lowest level. And lastly, neither has the classic failed, this widespread trend along the pandemic of blaming the youngest sector of the population, not just of the contagious, but of everything. And in fact, that's why at a given time it gave the retracement of the night oci and not of any other activity. It seems that we have forgotten that the recovery of social life and finding ourselves with our equals is also a priority, apart from working and studying. Anyway, everybody here has talked about young people less young people. And how it costs us in general to escape simplification, paternalism, without memory, the prepotence of adult centerism and party uses. In fact, all these reactions come precisely from a very hypocritical paternalism, from the hypocrisy of making people think that the "buttons" are something that was created two months ago and that no one here has ever taken a deer to public space. Of course, the paternalism of thinking that the young man does not respect and must be hired, or the dramatism, that we also felt in the previous interventions, that all respect for the security forces has been lost. We don't think it's dramatic, but it's not trivial. That, by the way, we have years of banalizing violence depending on who exercises it, depending on whether the cause is closer to us or more far. And for that, it's important here to differentiate what we're talking about. When we talk about "bottles, which have spent their whole lives... certainly now they are giving from this need to meet others and because of a lack of options and healthy night-time alternatives. Another thing that is different are the elements that in some cases can be given from the disaffection, from the earlier disconnection between the population and the public. And another thing that is different is aggression, it's attitude or vandalism, which must not be tolerated – I forgive – or normalized at any time. But we are still aware that in times of agglomeration they are things that can be given, I repeat, without normalizing them. So when we look at the causes of these questions, we have to do it separately and not sweep it all away. We need to know the causes of the rapes or conflicts, not to justify them at any time, but to hear them, to manage them and to be able, in any case, to transform them. It would be, therefore, a simplistic and easy mass to stay in a perspective only from the security. And don't misunderstand me, I don't mean in case there are no responsibilities and questions to review in public order. We can ask ourselves, for example, how police bodies can do more preventive actions, because we understand that acting in a secure way when you already have the problem over and over is quite complicated. Starting from the base too, of course, thirty-thousand people are not found to vandalize; they are found by the fact of being found. And when they give these crowds, as they say, then things happen that we have to fight to avoid. We need to be aware, and here I'm closing the security side, because I won't talk any longer about security, that every time we ask the police units to solve issues that are political, that politics hasn't been able to solve, and that's having a very limited view of security. So what we're proposing is going further. We are aware that the pandemic has affected everyone and that the precarious situation that young people were already experiencing is compounded by the lack of alternatives to oci options. And all that seems obvious, it's not the same to lock you up when you're forty, fifty years old that when you've said it, fifteen or twenty. And after a year and a half of pandemic, we can't keep looking at one side. And here's a few background data from how we're now, a couple of data. In Catalonia we have the lowest youth emancipation rate of the century per quarter as a result. It's a 16,3_per_cent fee. At work level, Catalonia has twice as much as the European Union, thirty-five_per_cent; the norma_per_cent of youth contracts are temporary. At the housing level, young people must allocate the cent_twenty_per_cent of their son to the logger. And here's a little point: last week, while we were talking about bottles, Berlin approved the fact of expropriating, didn't it? , and that big real estate companies can manage social loggers. And here we should learn something. More than that, in terms of mental health: youth suicide attempts have worsened and increased by one hundred per cent of the pandemic. And the context wasn't just about this question that we were flushing, but this vision of having no future, was it? "Fridays for Future are talking about generational injustice, which in short would be something like this, as I do commit, "the decisions that adults are now taking no, the decision or the reality that I am not having......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... So, this generational justice, therefore, is totally nonexistent and creates this sense of absence from the future as well. It seems that the planet is over and no one seems to care enough about it for, well, what's going to happen to the people who are young or those who are coming back, today's infants. And when we talk about young people's problems sometimes, it's that this problem isn't just young people and it's not just young people, it's their families and all the people they see behind it. So, what's the solution before all this complexity? There is no quick solution, at least not immediately. We do believe that it is important not to confuse management, now, that it must be immediate, of the solution, that it is a longer-term issue. And, in this sense, counsel, we raise three concrete questions. First of all – which is a question that we actually raised last week at the general policy debate, and we did not get a concrete answer from the President – what is the plan to diversify the options of oci diurn and nocturnal for young people in our country who answer to the conditions that we are now? It's not just the night before in terms of reopening, because we understand that what we don't want is the same thing that's going through the street goes through the door closed; I understand that this is not the focus we want. So, who are the options? Secondly, in terms of mental health, both President Aragonès and the Councilwoman have said that they will allocate €80 million to strengthen the system, the whole mental health network with a child and youth focus, and that is what we are celebrating, in fact, that you are following the line that we have also made since the Barcelona Assembly, but that is what we need immediately. So the real question is when, when exactly will this calendar begin. And lastly, we are clear that the answers must go through the construction of the possibility of listening with young people, because as it is certain that the stigma and guilt of young people disempowers them, it also disempowers the childishness of young people, and therefore it is important that they and they themselves are still questioning us and talking about their options and their reality. We can't just talk about young people's problems without talking to them themselves. And, in fact, today, various parliamentary groups of this chamber have registered a proposal, at the request of the National Council of Youth of Catalonia, to celebrate a specific plethora to talk about the critical situation of the young person. Although the council's request was to hold this plenary before the Nadal so as to influence the negotiation of the assumptions and because the situation of emergence in which we are so deserving, despite that, we could not agree with the two governing parties... you did not buy yourself a date. So the real question is: does the government not consider the youth's situation to be too difficult to give political priority to this debate and plenary being famous before Nadal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.27.0	Then there's the words of Mrs. Violant Cervera's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.28.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies..., Deputy González. It seems to me that the intervention I am going to make from now on is possible to please him, because, in fact, the only one I can say to him is that from the government we share, go, practically to the cent, so the comments you have made about the situation of young people today. Therefore, I hope that my intervention will allow us later, when you present a motion, so agree that they can solve a little or pale this situation. The situation of young people in Catalonia is a summary of various scenes that have been happening for some time now. The crisis of two years ago has already left a very complex structural situation, and it is clear that the crisis of the covid, at a time when they had not yet solved some of its problems of the crisis, has made these situations worse. According to the data – and you commented on it – of the active population survey, in Catalonia there are 1,241,355 young people, the seven_per_cent of the population, and of these, 46,3_per_cent work and of these 47,2_per_cent do so with a temporary contract. Therefore, it is clear that we can say that the job situation of young people is absolutely precarious and deficient. One question – and you were also commenting – that gives us the keys to copy the moment we live and see emancipation, so young people; only 16.3_percent of young people can emancipate, and, obviously, is the lowest xifra of this century. Only to have a reference, the year 2007 could emancipate the thirty-two-per-cent of the people, almost twice. This is a graph that gives us a pretty eloquent picture of how young people's paradigm has changed and how they feel about this crisis situation. It is also obvious – and you were also commenting – that the pandemic has made this situation even worse for our young people. Young people find themselves at a vital moment of building their identity, and the pandemic has forced them to stay locked up, without social contact, and more we have forced them, simply, to relate by means of the pandemic. And it is obvious that suicide taxes, therefore, have increased and mental health problems have also increased in our young people. This reduction in social interaction has also minimized the offer of the oci – and you were also commenting on it – during these later splits, and this is clear that it has caused a palpable discomfort in a multitude of expressions in our young people. It's true, we're conscious, and the pandemic, so it's one of the hardest situations that has left us in the situation of our young people. Still, I would like to put it in value – and we, obviously, will not criminalize at any time... – young people, because we believe that precisely this pandemic has been responded to in an exemplary way, collaborating on multiple causes, whether from the most vulnerable groups or with environmental justice programs. More than that, also, for example, in the campaign of education, education, this year, looking like 2019, which covered memories in Catalonia from the beginnings, since 1981 that are in these states, have participated more than 440,000 young people in these states and have starred them precisely young people, monitors and monitors, to whom, together with the sector, I would like to especially aggravate this compromise. What are we doing with the government so that we can fight these situations? Since the year 2000, the country has had a _marc of debate and diagnosis and design of the strategy in the field of young people, which is the national youth plan of Catalonia. This national plan, which ran out of 2020, it was necessary to extend it precisely to have a more accurate account of what is the social reality that leaves us with this crisis and what must be the playing field for the next few years. Moreover, on October 1st, we celebrated the eleven years of the Youth Policy Act, and we believe that this is a very important law to be able to rethink, rethink and make it more adapted to the times we are living. During this period, especially the pandemic, there have been six motor groups that have been working together with the National Council of Youth of Catalonia and the municipalist entities to work in which it is to be the proper convention, the Congress of Youth of Catalonia, where the conclusions of this work will be crystallized in order to be able to make the new national plan of youth that we have to approve the year 2022. And during this time, to be able to analyze the tasks that make of the different departments, therefore, there have been the corresponding bilateral meetings with the different departments. As you know, youth policies are coordinated by the Department of Social Rights and what we have are different interdepartmental instruments with all departments, each of which makes youth policies assigned according to its sectoral contexts. Also, through the national youth emancipation network, with forty-four offices and 221 youth information points, therefore, coverage has been given throughout the territory. In fact, this year of pandemic has reached more than 264,000 young people, with more than 324,000 consultations; the year 2019 – in fact we are in half, eh? – 412,000 young people attended, with 534,000 consultations. But we're aware that everything you said to me, so it's not enough. It is true that we have to work with the country and we have to be able to adapt these needs that have put the pandemic before the miracle, not only in youth policies, but in all policies. And it's obvious that we have to work together with the rest of the government's areas – youth policies are not policies that affect only one department, but that affect everyone – so to be able, therefore, to turn these shortcomings that today young people have. He was talking about the oci, he was talking about mental salvation, he was talking about mental health, he was talking about mental health, he was talking about mental health, he was talking about mental health, he was talking about mental health, he was talking about mental health. In the face of this economic and emotional distress, and even as the head council of the national plan met, we will convene in an extraordinary way, so the head council, and on November 11th, we will convene the inter-departmental commission with the different departments and with the will, too, to update this inter-departmental commission. Now it's a person from each of the departments and we understand that, as the look is much wider than just the departments..., but the departments have sectoral themes, so what we're going to do is update just these organs, that it's much easier for us to work together on these policies and do a cross-sectional follow-up. Not surprisingly, we have been working or working the different departments..., and I will go there pointing and then in the reply I will surely be able to add to 'there' others. From the occupation department, from the..., in occupation matters, the youth self-employment program, which has been published just now the order of the bases and will typically exit the call; the new operating program 2021-2027 of Youth Guarantee; programs in the framework of the Youth Generality and Youth Contract Support; the Singular project; projects to measure the entities to be able to adapt them to the more diverse young; FP for dual occupation – the new program of this year is opened while working, where the contract of a year and the accompanying formation is subsidized – ; youth contract promotion through the SOC – in fact, this year's program is held at the disposal of the European project, which is supported by the contract of a year and the training of accompanying–; and youth contract training through the SOC – in this year's program of this year's work, which takes place in the context of the European project, which is the execution of the contract. You were talking to me, in your intervention, about the problem of young people's mental health. And in this case they are working together both the Department of Education and the Department of Health with the program of emotional well-being and mental health, for all the students. The open school has been a way of preserving the emotional well-being of the youngest. The effort of the teacher and the link with the student allowed the prevention of this welfare. And with this program is intended to identify the emotional state of the students in the ordinary centers, promote listening spaces and link with the students, double the name of special educational centers with the thematic educational network of Catalonia. Or the formation plan for emotional well-being and mental health for the faculty. Or strengthen counseling and psych teams. And also, in digital education subjects, to ensure that students are digitally competent, or the Coeduca't program, with a gender perspective and affective education. And since the Department of Health, therefore, the plan for the prevention of the suicide of Catalonia 2021-2025 has been presented, which has the objective of reducing the temptative rate. And, in any case, therefore, it would mark the other priorities that have been made, therefore, of the other departments of the Generality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then there is the word, in reply, Mrs Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.30.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the reply. I'm very pleased that we agree. It's very good that you like the reading we've done before. In fact, many of the data that you have mentioned, well, they are easily searchable and also workable for the board, for the queries, etc. But, well, the difference is that you're ruling. So, apart from agreeing, you're doing well with accurate calendars. He's told me a lot of things. He did not answer my specific question about the specific plethora requested by the National Youth Council. You have told me about a process, at the level of the National Youth Congress, which will then take place at the national youth level, which is to be updated, and I understand that this in terms of institutional logic has a lot of meaning, but in terms of what young people are asking us now, that it is an immediate issue, that it is a matter of creating a space in this Parliament, because it is very politically relevant and because it concerns us, not least from hypocrisy, but from concrete policies, so that we have not committed ourselves to making a..., to giving them, to the National Youth Council, a specific date, more than from these processes and these institutional logics, that we still care about the calm? But adult centering is also saying, "Well, young man, that's what you're saying, so I don't think it's that much; I'll do it my way, that's an institutional way. I think the subject is quite relevant and we should prioritise doing this... And, in fact, let's take advantage of it to place all the parliamentary groups to do it when it's possible, because I repeat that the National Youth Council wants to focus on the assumptions and wants everything that the Councillor has said... that some have a lot of concreteness and others not so much, right? I missed the topic of cultural diversification, didn't I? What is the process that will, for example, make with athenaeums, that they have a model where young people are not usable in them but build spaces..., are built in a more assemblyary and empowering way as well. In this sense, what will be the relationship with the educational community, taking into account..., and there is one thing I have not said before, that we always like to talk about "young people in plural, there is no young person in singular but there are many ways of being young. And at what point, the programs you're announcing... some of them relate to some young people and not others, right? in terms of age, and they don't complete part of the targets at the entire youth base we have. Take advantage, too... that talking about young people in plural is talking from a class perspective, isn't it? , bearing in mind that the economic issue is one of the limitations we have at the time of accessing the oci. How do we facilitate access to young people's culture and the production and cultural creation that young people themselves and themselves do? As the reality of young people without referrals or young people who have gone through a public administration guardianship system are also regarded as young people in this country and their shortcomings are also considered in all these questions of youth plans. I'd like to know how their first-hand needs fit in, not just for the entities that care for them, but for their own reality, because we already know that they come from a system that doesn't give them the tools to develop a worthy life project. Cal also asked us about alcohol consumption, not just at young people's level, but in general. And all this work, I may have missed... I insist on the need of the specific Ple. The young people must have the opportunity to influence the assumptions, which is what they have asked of us, which is what you have felt coming out of a paternalistic and adult-centric perspective, so I thank you that in the reply I can make both the subject, a little more, of the cultural oci, and this process apart from institutionalization. And, on the other hand, the compromise of the specific plenary that has all the meaning at the political level, if we really believe that youth policies are priorities for this government. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.31.0	To make the reply, the social rights advisor has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.32.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I will continue it, therefore, very quickly, indicating a little the actions that the different departments do, insisting that from the Department of Social Rights and concretely from the Directorate General of Youth, our task is not to propose concrete measures of the different departments, because this to each department, therefore, has its responsibility, in any case, but to coordinate them. And as far as I'm concerned about the date of the plenary, I just want to say that I believe in the separation of powers: I sociate Government, therefore, the date you have to decide between the different parliamentary groups. I'm sure this point will come out in court and so you'll have the opportunity to debate what is the best time to celebrate this Plea that we want to do, therefore, of the young lady of Catalonia. So I'm sure you'll come to some kind of agreement. Just to finish some brushing, huh? Also from the Department of Climate Action and Food and Rural Agents, they also have the project Odisseu, which is for the return and employment of young people to the natural environment. Or the Planter project, which is a virtual office that helps young people join the rural agri-food sector. From the Department of Universities, the band of the decree of university preus publics reduced to forty_per_cent the official masters or lowering the registration, therefore, they are also working jointly on the 2030 agenda, with the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia. From the Department of Vice Presidency and Digital Policies, the Secure Internet campaign to reach the young public, and soon the campaign will be launched«Take control of who you are on the internet, with tools and tips and resources to know better and value the importance of privacy. And from the Department of Culture, with various programs, such as Scene 25, to access theatre, circus or dance performances, or training and perfection fellowships in the fields of visual arts, or research and innovation fellowships in the fields of visual arts, of the new creative sectors. I, from the Department of Social Rights, and just now we have housing policies and youth policies between the same department, so let's hope that this synergy can help get more housing for young people. But, said this also from the department and in the housing policies, boost of the housing advisory service in the young line, and during the year 2020 was attended 483 consultations; or benefits for the payment of logging, beneficiaries young people of less than thirty-five years, the year 2020, more than two thousand people, with almost 19_million euros. The economic aid band of the emergency loguers, in which the year 2020, 186 people, with half a million euros. We are aware of the lack of housing destined for social logger and, in fact, through the tanteig and retraction, since the year 2015, have acquired more than 3,200 housing, with an import of 171_million euros. The young collection also represents a special protection in the social benefit system in the help for the payment of the loguer. People who divide at thirty-five years and have admissions below 0.94 times the CIHR have fifty points at the time of being able to hold these aids; or those under thirty-five years, forty points, or persons between divided and thirty-five who have ascendants or descendants, so, thirty-five points. Therefore, also in housing policies, it is intended to give help to young people. And just taking advantage of these synergies that we have commented on in housing policies and youth policies, which I believe should be, at least in which they affect us as a department, one of our priorities, is to intensify also through the Social Media Network; or rather, initiatives that create new ways and tenance of sustainable housing, such as through housing cooperatives or urban masoveria, or a third line of young collection, because I received special protection from the social services system in housing. And we also want to arrive from all over the territory with the support of the young man also in the matter of housing, and which is distributed throughout the territory, and, profiting, therefore, that this year or these three years we will have the European foundations, therefore, also to enable these European foundations for the construction of housing of lloger destined for social loguer, which should also be destined for young people. Therefore, we are aware of the difficulties of young people in mental health, occupation, emancipation, housing, and we are aware of the need to offer new policies that respond to all these needs. And for this reason we will encourage interdepartmental coordination with the rest of the departments, and what we want is to update the law of youth policies to adapt it to the needs of this 21st century and the needs, therefore, of our population today. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.33.0	Let's get to the top of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on the relationship between the narco-economics of marijuana and associated crime in Catalonia]] [[300-00041/13]] The question to the Government about the relationship between the narco-economics of marijuana and associated crime in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units for Progress. He has the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, honourable Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous groups have done in the use of the word, it is the first time we are heading to the chamber, as we want to convey our condolences and closeness to family members, friends and companions of the way that has lost their lives in an accident this late in Matadepera. The title of the inquiry that we propose is very explicit, and probably copied – forgive me, counselor, I had not seen it, the greeting to you too – copied the attention of a good part of you. But it starts with a phrase that I would, somehow, remember, and that powerfully shouted at us. The phrase says: « Catalunya exports marijuana and imports organized crime. This is not a phrase of mine, it is not a phrase pronounced politically, it is a phrase of an intendant of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra pronounced in the march of a press wheel that was made in Madrid to account for an operation, precisely, to dismantle a criminal gang dedicated to this, to the traffic, to the conreu and to the traffic of stupefants, in this case, of marijuana. Therefore, it is a telling and worrying phrase from our perspective. In fact, it doesn't happen today – now he was looking at the WhatsApp and the Mossos have just announced a new act, in this case at Cruilles – that the local, local, national press doesn't account for any action, so this means that it has pro-activated the Mossos. Therefore, we propose, as the object of this inquiry, five basic things: the first, to turn on an alert light and put on the political agenda, counselor, where it is already on the police agenda, and which we obviously know is there. Secondly, make useful proposals; we want to add to the time to fight this war. In the third place, close files with the government to face this sacra. Here you will find us firmly exercising our opposition pocket, but obviously, I feel purpose, and without losing sight – and you will understand this perfectly – all the importance of the local world. We're talking many times about bars – you've been mayor, you've been sensitised – and we've talked, and we've talked, and we've talked, with many mayors, and they're worried about the occupation of floors, about the presence in many of our bars. And, obviously, to express our support for the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra throughout the activity that they are doing and at the conjunction of the police, the Barcelona Urban Guard and the other police units, which are doing a huge job in this sense. Some data, quite briefly, because I don't want to tire them out, are extremities of reports of the so-called "Mossos" that have been reflected in the communication media. If Spain goes to the front of Europe with traffic and marijuana, together with Italy, Catalonia goes practically to the front of Spain competing, so to speak, with Andalusia and some other territories. Not the gifts because I would like to go to the substance, but only some of the ears: only in 2020, 102 violent episodes in Catalonia, in half of which, using firearms; 34 trafficking networks of marijuana intervention for the Mossos; 393 dismantled plantations; 3 homicides, which add up to the 3rd of the year before and the 3rd of the year before– so, we are talking about 9 fatal victims–; 94 intervention firearms; 8 narcotics, etc. It's just that we're worried, and a lot. We are no longer, therefore, in the phase of self-consumption, perfectly tolerated in our legal framework. We're in another phase. The increase of segrestos, the increase of extortions, illegal detentions, the exponential increase of plantations in account. Plantations on occupied floors are relatively abundant, in industrial buildings, in barns– sometimes occupied with knowledge of the owners, sometimes violently, without knowledge of them –, in the middle of a conreus... The most paradigmatic case, even in the Montseny Natural Park they went in with a « back and they did a plantation in the middle of a natural park, which is rather unheard of. And sophistication – sophistication –: video surveillance elements, sensors, alarms, use drones to defend these plantations, because they generate a rape between these own bands. It is setting up an organized crime that is what we are worried about, that concerns the Mosses and that is what we want to put in knowledge and put on this political agenda. A few more dates. In Tarragona, the Mossos dismantled a building that was dedicated to occupying floors– « real estate between comets– to occupying floors, preparing them for the conreu of marijuana putting the ventilation, the light and all the daò, and « housing them between comets, to the cultivators. That counts for sophistication. Girona was detected by agronomists, and they were detected by specialists who did... really excel in the control of smells and high productivity, in generating high productivity. Or to Lleida – and here we would also like to express our solidarity with the sergeant of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra wounded on September 8th in Alcoletge – there were really sophisticated and dangerous elements for the Mossos, but for the rest of the city also, in defense of these plantations. All this has nothing to do with self-consumption, all this has nothing to do with..., this has to do with organized crime, which ran into our house. This generates a spiral of violence that the Mosses have been reporting for a long time. And all this can end up coming down, and this is the element of concern and it's what leads us as a parliamentary group to try to put this on the political agenda as well. We talk a lot of public order, and we're good to talk about it, but we're good to talk about organized crime as well as talking about it. With all this we run the risk of having an implant at our house of mafia organizations, which usually end up linking with the arms trade– we already have some evidence–, they end up linking with the traffic of people– and disjointed in some evidence–, and with the ability to corrupt authorities– with the ability to corrupt authorities. And here we're talking about another stage, we're talking about another problem, and in this sense, you're counting on us to deal with this problem. Catalonia, as well as Spain, today is a very common land, so it is very popular for the implementation of these networks, for dissociation, not because there is no pro-activity, just because they run the networks and have ways, and it costs the police a lot of times to catch them... Fixing that this is a problem that we see in all the countries without exception, I would say that there is no reason that it is given in one way..., with different intensity, but to all the regions and to many of our bars, and certainly in the most vulnerable bars. And before you made a definition, therefore, of how we conceive of security, which we could share, as protection from the heaviest. To plant face hard, with the firmness that is needed, to organized organized crime groups, which are present in many barrels of our city is to cost to the heaviest. And that's the essence of what we want them to, somehow, transmit. And from here on out, I think we should be able to make proposals in the measure of what we can do to make this fight. I speak and we speak, obviously, with many mayors, and we know that you do it on a daily basis. And we know what the concern is in many barrels of our country in relation to the installation of these mafias, how, in a certain way, they occupy public space, how they occupy private spaces, how this crime was generated... And, it counts – and I think we didn't have an expression in this very Ple – this is also the most radical position. And you said one thing, counselor, in the previous interventions, that we listened to him carefully, and said, "Listen, between a postilànyme and testosterone counselor, I am left with the postilànyme advisor. I'd ask you not one thing or another. I'd ask you to be a brave counselor, a strong advisor, and a realistic advisor in the fight and struggle against organized groups, which we're talking about. We're not talking about self-consumption, we're not talking about... We're talking about organized groups, about criminality, about our country, unfortunately – and I turn to the intendant's phrase – it's important crime. There are genuine brokers in this environment, there is an important price differential between marijuana produced in Catalonia and in the context of the Mediterranean arc and produced in central and northern Europe, and therefore a whole narco-economy has been generated – hence the title, which we may be able to frustrate – which concerns us. Therefore, we believe that, as long as this impact is on the most vulnerable barrels and as long as we conceive of security policy as a social policy, and I believe that here we are not far from the position you expressed, that is why we ask you and offer you two things, we ask you to support it – that you already give it – to the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra and to the group of police. The operations each time will be more transversal between different police units. There's also a whole legislative derivative that we don't want to play today, if I want to after, so we can obviously talk about it, enchanted by life. We're asking you for this firm effort. No easy demagogicism or goodness, we ask for realism, realism and firmness against organized crime, because this expression we believe that not at home, we believe that it harms the most vulnerable, we believe that we are about to cross a line – and we are still in time to contain it – therefore, dangerous when these mafias are dating, and they are running into our home, we are already entering another dimension. When the ability to corrupt authorities, whatever they are – police, political, judicial or natural – is, therefore, a reality, we are already in another territory that requires a firm. To be firm in the fight against all this phenomenon, count with us and we will make contributions – and then I will mention – positive respect for sharing this fight. Thank you, Madam President; thank you, Mr Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.35.0	To answer, the word "Interior Counselor" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.36.0	Well, nice late again, president, deputies and deputies. And deputy, first of all, thank him for the inquiry. The name is cridaner, yes, but I answer enough to a reality. I mean, after that, there's a perverse economy. Now we're talking about it. He suggested to us a while ago, he asked for an inquiry that we immediately talked about and I said that we were... I'm sorry, an appearance, I'm sorry, that we said, so we agreed because we seemed interesting. And I think it's good that we keep it, because we're going to be talking a little bit today and next week or 15 days from now we're going to be making a show, but it seems to us that we're also going to be making a show to talk a lot more deeply about this issue. What he wants is firm, yes, going face-to-face with this, with absolute strength, without concessions. Of course, without testosterone, since we were talking about the subject, because with testosterone there was no sereneness, and that is what it wants sereneness, and it wants intelligence, and it wants investigation, and this is the key to the work to be done. It is true, there has been an increase in the conjunction of the European Union very important. Miri, 2011 – and the data knows them, but it's good that it's subratllin –, ninety-two_tones were decommissioned. On the 17th, six years later, 209 to the European Union. But growing up in Spain has been eight or four years, hasn't it? , multiplied by eight a new one. And Catalonia too. And, indeed, in Catalonia, it is one of the main places where there are plantations and, therefore, naturally, it is very disturbing, very worrying and we must not take care of ourselves, as you already know and have highlighted. Causes are many, aren't they? There's a lot of them. There is an element of rural depopulation of some areas and the abandonment of second residences that propitiates, fruit of the crisis of 2008, etcetera, later, that has provided disordered spaces that have facilitated the implementation of this activity. There are vulnerable sectors, and vulnerable sectors are the breeding ground for attracting these people to criminal activities. There is a situation of different penalties to the Spanish State for which it refers to production and these organizations linked to production in relation to the countries of our environment. There's a geographic situation that favors me, isn't there? , that is to say, there is, because of the geographical situation, because of the absence of borders to the European Union – fortunately – but it also has its derivatives that allow, therefore, to export with greater ease. This means that it has to be done and, as you know, there is a Marihuana action plan, that 2017 started the Squad's Mosso Coso, naturally with the direction of the council, and that it is working intensely, and that a little now I will deploy it, and that, in fact, we believe that it is the right line through which it is going to work. It is true, it has very perverse effects, because the drama is not only, as you said, in the fact of culture and production and commercialization, which also, naturally, only in all criminal networks that are generated around it by other types of crime, illegal occupations organized for this purpose... To have money there is corruption, it has facilitated corruption, narcotics, violence; in there is money, there are bars, disputes between the organizations that cause other levels of violence between them, and that, besides, it generates structures of enterprises, societies that, after all, need to be concerned, have actually generated a benefit. They are the ones that generate defraud of the electrical fluid, they are the ones who make the illegal connections that then cause certain problems and, effectively, there are brokers intermediaries who make the August also with this pocket of brokers. And, indeed, violent crimes linked to all this – there was reference – three years later, three homicides and more than a hundred violent assaults. And every time, then, with firearms and more conditions for delinquency, right? Because, effectively, to have more resources, to have more money, to move more interested, it also generates this activity. He's been working very hard and explaining these figures doesn't mean that there's no concern, but it seems to me that it's worth highlighting, so it's over and it's going to be over in the next few years. From the year 2014 to the 19th have disarticulated one hundred and fifty networks; the year 2020, twenty-i-set. And nearly four hundred plantations have been dismantled. But you have to keep working, and you have to keep working very intensively. What else has happened? Increase the effectiveness of the investigation of this crime. At this time we have 1,800 people, 1,800 agents from Mosso d'Esquadra dedicated to the investigation. A good part of them, a very important part of them, are dedicated to investigating this phenomenon, both from the central and territorial level, to the regions, giving support also to the joints and local police in this investigation and in the problem, which, effectively, ends up leading to concrete problems in our barrels. There's a lot more people in this area. In these moments, 377 agents will participate in the basic research course to have more information and more ability to act in this land. Also to the corporals – noranta-set – or to the sergeants – divided –, to precisely strengthen the investigation and a very key element: coordinate also in which it is the day-to-day operation with the investigation in relation to these questions to make the alert jump respect the things that are insinuated, that is to say, that it is detectable that they can be linked to all this. And, of course, cooperation with other parts of Spanish and European security, through the CITCO, because it is a coordination, these networks are international, and obviously work from this perspective. It is strength, much, the work that has been done; it wants knowledge, it wants investigation, it wants intelligence, it wants effect, and that is what we will put in it. All that is to improve this action – which I know is that this is so, because we have not talked enough – about this issue, therefore, to arrange, the will in this land is to agree and to improve the investigation in this land, to give security to the assemblies as well and to have the certainty and awareness that we are above, that we make it our own, to keep them informed at all times of the work being done, and, in this sense, it seems that there is the confidence of the local world that is being made, because the interloquence is permanent, the concern is shared, and therefore from this point of view, therefore, to arrange, so that we can reach agreement in the motion that allows the implementation of the new measures, my concern, my concern, my concern, my concern. I repeat, moreover, the invitation to keep the appearance, because it seems to me that more then, as I said earlier, than this moment of debate and of what will be produced in the next plenary, it is good that, in the committee's framework, we can delve into this issue for more hours and, probably, therefore, also provide some representatives, some of the police devices in order to be able to provide more information, etc. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word the deputy Mr Ramon Swordler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.38.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before the counselor, because you see that I always listen to him very carefully, he said: "Of course, you cannot carry prepared replies. I, like I didn't have to, out of respect for you and the government, the best soc disordered in the answer. [[The timer laughs.]] In any case, in the first place, give thanks for this predisposition and reiterate that you rely on us. Absolutely agree to make the appearance. We think it's a pretty important issue, unfortunately, we're not going to get her out of today tomorrow. This is a theme that has come to stay, and therefore we have to fight it with all the instruments we have in the abst. Very much in agreement with this reflection that must be serene and, if it is, here, a more testosterone point, the fight against the mafias, against these gangs. In any case, I would like to highlight this: a lot of dialogue with the assemblies, with the local world, and also, if I may, have a lot of presence and a lot of visualisation of the police bodies; and it's good when these are of arm, with pairs, with binomies, therefore, of local police and squad movements. And you don't make me say the barrels, but we all have a lot on our mind, so they would appreciate a greater police presence, because it also inspires security for many of the citizens. And I see mayors and I see mayors, so, you know perfectly well what I'm talking about, ask them to do this. We're going to make a constructive motion and we've tried to find and we've also found, therefore, in the legal framework that we have, without leaving our competitions, that there are some aspects, some of them that give us, for example, the law of the security system of Catalonia, gives us some margins, gives us some elements, some of them, that we believe can be useful in this fight. We will therefore expose them in front of the House in the House and try to set up some organs that have not been set up or to move forward on this path. We are also aware that there is another part of the question that remains more in the scope of the Criminal Code. We appreciate, from the reading of the information given by the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, a great difficulty that, when this only approaches judicially, from the perspective of public salvation, the penises are very small. This, these mafias know perfectly well and, for that reason, rarely, at all, has gone into prison. And a great difficulty to be able to associate the reality of the problem, which is money laundering, arms trafficking and many other things. And that requires investigation, and that requires resources, and that requires coordination. We applaud the entrance of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra to the CITCO, because it gives tools and this is indeed an organism – let's say it – almost perfect. It is the body in which it is necessary to coordinate the police in the networks because they do not have borders; they do not have any type of borders and, therefore, it is necessary that this complementarity and this information exchange be carried out. There is another..., a whole other way, that we would also like to leave here on, but not to open a debate, but that we also notice every time we have a conversation with mayors and mayors, with concerned directors, with cops of the Cos de Mossos or the local police or the Urban Guard or the Civil Guard or the Cos Nacional de Policia. It is true, there is a very low perception of the risk associated with the consumption of cannabis, but it is that we would not have the problems that we have if Catalonia only produced for the consumption of natives, to say the least. Each may have an opinion of respect – I am not going to value it now or express my own, which some may even imagine – but in any case, what we are facing is a problem that has nothing to do with self-consumption, which has a lot to see with what organized crime is, which has a lot to see with all this violence, and which has a lot to see with this coercion that many times there are in many barrels, which has increased insecurity when these persons associated with these criminal groups begin to appear, to these devices. The mafia relationship that gives the body of Mossos d'Esquadra present in Catalonia is wounded. There are many Finns, French, Moroccans, Albanians... well, we would find practically all the planetary geography that have presence in our home. Therefore, offer our support so that this fight follows a fight, obviously, firm and because this phrase of the intendant, who says: « Catalonia exports marijuana and imports organized crime to us made clear– and it has become perfectly clear– that neither is the desire of Catalonia that the Government wants. We want another Catalonia where there is no such organized crime and where there is obviously quality of life and security for everyone, because security is a condition for freedom and security, also in these barrels, obviously affects the weakest and most vulnerable. Thank you for all of this and I hope I can continue to build with you the service of this coexistence, of this security. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.39.0	I, to make the reply, has the word "Interior Counselor".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.40.0	Well, and very quickly, because it seems to me that what is important is that we work in a young man who helps us all to improve in this area: firm, firm, firm, without any concessions. That's for sure. There are fears that they don't deserve anything more than this conviction, which is that of the firm, firm, firm, without any concessions. As in others, right? But in this one, too. And he wants to cooperate with the gatherings and he wants more investigation and more resources in the investigation, because here, in this case, is the key. And he wants coordination with the other police, which means, therefore, just that, investigation and information. And the relationship with the joints, for the investigation and also for these effects derived from what we say of secondary crimes derived from this practice, which is the perception of insecurity. And in this sense, he knows that we are working in areas, especially, in which this perception is more intense because there is, together with the gatherings, a common job to deal with this perception. In the background work is the essential and the background work, above all, is said to be research and very firm action. There's a lot..., there's started to be a lot of background work done a long time ago by Squad mossos. The results, in fact, are seen, right? And there are other questions of substance that surely, through the appearance and also of the motion following this inquiry, we can certainly address much more deeply. Thank you very much and to arrange.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the loneliness and defencelessness of victimized women of male violence]] [[300-00042/13]] Let's move on to the fourteenth point of the order of the day, the question to the Government about the loneliness and the defencelessness of women who are victims of male violence, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress. You have the word, to make the presentation of the inquiry, Mrs Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.42.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. Counselor, the title of my inquiry on the loneliness and defence of the victimous women of male violence has a connotation of a little literary. And, if we've put in a title more recently narrated that you're not normal, it's because we'd like it so much that everyone who listens to us can put on the skin of a woman who suffers male rape. We need to empathize with people and we want to do so in this way because we consider that society is anesthetized with respect to this type of violence, which is certainly the most frequent. Do you think, Counselor, that a fact as clumsy as it was four days ago in Badalona, a sexual assault on the part of a "brother of seven men to a woman, can you go unpunished? And even reduced to a note from the history of success that maybe someone will read and everyone will forget quickly? Something very hard is going on in our society and we have the moral imperative to do ourselves - but. The company considers male violence an inevitable fact and, for this reason, has normalized it. This assessment is confirmed by the Report of the General Council of the Judiciary of the second quarter of 2021. It exposes that only a 1.6_per_cent of the complaints are victim's family girls; a sifra that has not stopped decreasing in the last few years. Fixed 'named 1,6_percent of complaints pose them familiar to victims. Another fact: between May 27th and August 5th, in less than two months and a half, we had to account for six murdered women for their pairs or exparels. Did you, Counselor, see that society is revolted against these crimes? No, no, Neither do we. Society is insensitive. Let's look now at where the victims of male violence pass to see that everyone can pose for the skin. They are found before with strategies that are as old as humanity and that are the same ones that have allowed, without the need to use force, to enslave people, to relocate people to concentration camps or to capture followers for a sect. These psychological mechanisms that allow a person to subtend without using physical force are three and are always produced in this order: the first consists of unravelling people, that is, depriving them of the relationships of affection, of the bonds that are propitious to them, so that they feel alienated in the new medium. For example, the abuser says: "If you think of me, do not go away with your friends, or do not listen to your German friends, do not listen to them, do not let them hear me. So that you can get the woman to be alone, winged and under her power. The second mechanism focuses on treating people as objects depriving them of their humanity, so that they can lose respect for themselves. The abuser says, for example, "You don't even know how to cook, this dish is vomit. "Shut up! That's why you don't understand. Until she gets the woman to completely lose her self-esteem, she feels miserable and she's still under her power. And the third maneuver is based on connecting it to a one-on-one address with the abuser, so I can't even count on someone's superior arbitrage or even an equal relationship. The wrongdoer says: "What has happened is to stay between you and me, because no one else is to stay in our relationship. So that the woman has no other reference than her abuser's. There are still two more questions to consider to hear the defencelessness and loneliness of victims of male violence. The first is the phases in which this violence develops, which acts like a bell. First, an initial phase of gradual escalation of tension, which the woman does not understand because there is no apparent motive. A next phase is a violent explosion, in which there are threats and physical and sexual assaults. And a last stage named "the honeymoon," in which the attacker uses emotional manipulation so that the woman does not abandon it and is converted into the man who fell in love with her and promised her that she would put the moon at her feet. If to the fact that he is once again the enchanter of serpents that it was when they met him and showed him a penediment that seems sincere, we add the socialization that the women have suffered, of one band, to take care of the others, maternal, of the other, to do it in a self-denial way, that is, oblivion of themselves. If we do, I say, we have the perfect cocktail because the woman is not recognized as the victim and wants to protect and not make her attacker suffer, poor! We see what we do or rather don't do for women who are victims of male violence. We mistreat them, but often not aware that they are. You'll tell me, Counselor, that you've campaigned because everyone is aware of male violence. And it is true that they have done so, but male violence has been associated with physical violence, with the ulture of old age, and other types of violence have been left behind: sexual, psychological, economic, cyberviolence, to name just a few. And, besides, it seems that even this battle we are losing, because, look, the late Barometer of Youth and Genre of the Centre Queen Sofia shows some figures that are wounded: it concludes that one of five young men, between fifteen and twenty-nine years old, believes that gender violence is an ideological invention. That means 20 percent of young men. Our girls are having a hard time. We say, we have the women that are often not recognized as victims. But, counsel, we also lack training for people who integrate the different services, because they can detect signs and help the victim to recognize themselves at least to accompany him until he can fit in or want to get out. We need, for example, professionals of salvation who are able to see that an anxiety crisis can be a symptom of maltreatment. Another example of the defencelessness of women – in addition to the ‘herd, who posed them before –: a lawyer company of the turn of offices explained to me a case that is common and that generates a lot of rage: a woman physically assaulted repeatedly for her face, at the last palliss the woman decides to denounce and does not call her the order of protection. Why? They tell him because he didn't see his attacker. Clearly, that's very worrying and very disappointing. You will tell me that the judicial system is not the competence of Catalonia, and it is true, but it is certain that the risk tests are carried out by the Squadron Moissons, by the police, and therefore the security elements should have some risk texts that were much more accurate. And that's... that's about the competitions of Catalonia. On the other hand, our victim care system is anything but a system, I mean it's grown without planning, like a bar without a planned urban project. So even all the professionals say it's labyrinth, so imagine how victims, abused women are lost. The victims, who, I insist, are alone and helpless, need clear circuits and, above all, need a follow-up that is expert and empathetic, from the beginning to the end. And the end is not when the women go to live in a crowded habitat or the day the judgment is in place; the end is the day when the woman is completely recovered from sequels, not just physical, but also and above all psychologists. It takes time, sometimes years for women to regain self-esteem, have confidence in themselves again, overcome anxiety and depression, and can live like before falling into the hands of the aggressor. Therefore, women need psychological help as long as anyone else does. They must and we're not doing it. You will tell me that some of the things I have exposed to you are already contemplated in Law 17/2020, amending the law of the right of women to eradicate male violence. And I will answer that yes, but that will soon make a year of the approval of the law and many of the questions that I intended to resolve continue as they were before the modification. All this without counting, for example, the shortcomings that exist in the commissions and the courts because the women can be treated without risk or can be expected in conditions or, for example, with the difficulties that the women have to be housed in suitable habitats for them and their creatures. As you have seen, Counselor, we have not wanted to plant it as a beautiful case, we have wanted to plant it without aggression, with the will to work to end once and for all with this chakra, a chakra in the sense of a moral country, which strikes very hard the women of our country. We would like your government, and especially your advice, to feel concerned, that it was your first priority. We would like to welcome the political forces that we voted for in favour of the Catalan Pact against Masclist Violence, which we proposed in last week's General Policy Plenary, from Socialists and Forward Units. And we would like you, in your own plenary, to sit down, your council and the government to which you belong, at the expense of the motion we are presenting. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.43.0	To answer, the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms, Mrs. Tània Verge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.44.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Mrs Lienas, it is certain that the title of the motion did not necessarily resonate in this literary line, but I am grateful that you take advantage of the time of the inquiry so that you can also do this awareness exercise with what you started – and that I would also like to start right here my answer – because we know that male violence is deeply delayed in all areas of society and when we all say that it is in partnership, in work, in educational centres, in the area of the West and in culture, in social networks or in the area of social and political participation. And that, as you pointed out, is about the violation of the human rights of the most extended women. And he gave some data, and he also brought some other data to complete this photograph. Studies carried out in the European Union and Catalonia show that one_of_each_three– one_of_three– women in the European Union has suffered from a situation of male violence since the 15 years, a percentage that would rise to eighty_per_cent in the case of women with disabilities; and one_of_two European women has suffered sexually. If we only focus on the area of sexual assimilation in public transport, a recent ERMB survey published last week, says that there are six_of_each_women who have suffered it in the last two years and would file in the new_of_each_women in the age range of seven to twenty-nine. Sexual settlement also knows that it has a very high incidence in the workers of the home, mostly migrated women. And the most dramatic data, these 11 feminicides in Catalonia we're wearing from the year and the nine-new from the year 2012, of which six feminicides are linked. Other data that also give us an appreciation of the magnitude of this phenomenon. The specialized network attended the year 2019 – and I will give data from the 19th because, as you know, the 20th, with the pandemic, is not a year represented – in the Information and Donation Service, six thousand situations were detected such as male violence, five thousand women and 1,200 children were attended to the specialized intervention service. And even more data, three-hundred women and children in homes or gathering and recovery services, two-hundred women and children in substitute services of the lar, 1,600 families in technical services of finding points. And before the prevalence of male violence, the expansion and improvement of the service has been a constant. In the past year and a half, twenty-four of us served as substitutes for the new SIAD. Currently, the Observers for Gender Equality of the Catalan Institute of Women are developing a new directory of resources for attention to male violence to generate a more accessible map, but we are also aware of two things: one, which you have pointed out, the need for better attention is also constant, to reorganize and strengthen this network and I will present you with the actions that we have planned; and at the same time be aware of this..., following the awareness exercise that you did, which came to the attention network is not simple, because the weapons of patriarchy are very powerful. On one side, perpetuating this myth that masculinist rapes are an exceptional fact the fruit of a pathology or of a specific circumstance and, on the other side, the ailment suffered by the women or the disclaimer and doubt of their witnesses. On the measures in themselves, well, this government assumes the mandate to make the eradication of male rape a matter of country, devoting more resources to it than ever before. A government that has for the first time the feminist transformation as central eix, with a specific advice because the leader. And we'll do it with a very clear full route, a full route that we've started to deploy since the minute we did. On June 29, we approved a government agreement to develop a general framework for action to eradicate institutional violence, an objective also reflected in the Government Platform, with actions such as the assessment of the victimization of women in court proceedings, the implementation of mechanisms for the evaluation of police services serving women, and the continued training of these services, together with forensic medical personnel involved in cases of male rape. The Government's agreement also includes the assessment of the same services of the specialized network, because we need to define, and we will do so, a model of attention that provides a more individualized response to the women, because from their diversity there is no need for the women to adjust to the services, but for the services to adjust to the needs of the women. The Government's plan also reduces access to help and compensation for women who have suffered rape and their children and redress for the institutional violence that may occur. In line with the needs it detected, we would expand the services of the comprehensive care and recovery network, including emergency care. We will implement a new model of approach to sexual rape, including specialized psychologists, as you said, the need for personnel specialized in this type of rape, at SIADs. We will create specific programs for age groups: children, adolescents, large women and women with disabilities. We will also strengthen the coordination of the circuit with the local authorities to ensure territorial equity and to deploy a community perspective, so that they generate these essential solidarity networks in both prevention and repair, from trades, from citizenship, from women's entities that know they are key, often door to entry and follow-up in the processes for many women who suffer from male violence. And because we know that the autonomy processes of survivors are cabal, we will also improve access to protected housing and access to occupation through specific plans. He was also talking about sensitisation. We are aware that because this profound social change that we need is produced, the prevention work cannot be winged fish, it must be a planned country work, considering all the areas in which violence is expressed and addressing all the collectivities, but without forgetting and especially addressing the men to help them get out of this comfort zone of all men, right? Because male violence has no age, no origin, no social class, no educational level, but clearly has a genera. And in this fight against masculinist rapes that involves all departments, leadership, impulse and coordination correspond to the Department of Equality and Feminisms, and we are exercising it. I read a few examples. On 8 September, we convened the Feminicide Analysis Group with the political commitment to develop for the first time a methodology that, with qualitative and quantitative data, allows to deepen in the circumstances of each case and to prepare a report of practical conclusions that identifies the best needed in both prevention and repair. On the 13th of October, we have convened the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence, where the feminicide protocol will be presented, a key tool for diligent action by all the public powers after these murders, which will clarify who, as and when the information is transmitted, but who also coordinates the action of all the services of the network beyond the emergence. There will also be the Work Plan for the updating of the Marked Protocol for the Approach of Masclistic Violence, because it harmonizes all plans – sectoral, departmental–, enclosing what you commented, the primary focus of social services, but also the health, education – enclosing the School Plan and university protocols – the field of culture, public function, female genital mutilation protocols, forced marriages. And at the same time, in these months, we also accompanied the municipalities when a feminicide occurred, offering them our crisis intervention service, both to family members and clean people as to the community or to the same professionals affected. We have participated in the municipal coordination tables and we have been at the side of mayors and directors providing institutional support in the exhibitions of condol and rebuig. Therefore, yes, clearly our full route is based on the government's obligation to effectively implement Law 17/2020. And, before I finish, I did – and I understand that you too are now in the line..., we can follow this conversation – that this offer of collaboration on the feminist agenda made by Mr. Illa in the general policy debate and that you reiterate, also pass to enjoy that, since you are in the government, you make the necessary normative changes that allow you to end also with some defences that are important. For example, the lack of defence suffered by women who have migrated in an administrative irregular situation – because the foreign law makes it difficult to prevent the right to effective protection and not conditional on victims – before being expelled if the sentence is absolute; or also the need to comply with this repeated demand to review the 2004 organic law for full protection against gender-based violence, which is now outdated, which is incomplete in Istanbul and recommendation number 35 of Cedaw, which, as a condition of protection orders to the complaint of the violence, or then, at the beginning of a criminal procedure, neglects the preventive function that originates from the protection, and this is also generating a great deal of defence to women. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. To make the reply, has the word the deputy Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.46.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, how you started with the statistical data – which seemed very good to me – I'm down in the real world, in the world that's not the data, and I'm putting some examples of things that don't work clearly. For example, the jutjats of Rubí and Martorell. I suppose you're aware, but Rubí and Martorell's jutjats are in a difficult situation. The women, at the Martorell Jutjat, make them wait in a..., went to say in a "room, but it's not a small room, it's a small closet, it's a zule, in fact, that you have to have a meter and a half per metre and that it's totally embedded in binders, that you only have a pumping pin and a fall and a door. And I asked them to leave me locked up, nothing, a minute or so, and I thought..., when I came out I said: "I withdraw the complaint. Because, of course, a woman in a state of shock in there can't do anything but withdraw the complaint. And, like that, a lot of other things. And this is contrary to the law of the victim's state of crime, because the article – I don't have it here, but I can say it... – Article 20 of Title III says that "in judicial dependencies the criminal proceedings must be developed so that the victim is not separated as much as the aggressor, and this also happens in these courts. Many times, they believe in a passage that has no more than a_metre of width, and one day we will have a disgrace. More things. The protocol that had to be made Interior to develop a little law that we approved in 2020, this protocol, Interior, did not – at last, he ended up making the Collège de l'Advocacia in May. But until then the commissioners continued to give them to the victims that if they did not want to wait for the attorney of the offices, because they would cheat a lot, that they could take them themselves the complaint. That's not it. It's still coming through, huh? Some of them. That's not it: they have to be with the lawyer or the lawyer to go back to the side. Well, that's right, we need follow-up, that's essential. Because, if it is taken into account that the mechanisms for capturing a woman in a situation of rape are the same as that of a person in a sect, it is perfectly understood that a person in a sect needs a lot of support to be able to get together, and women who are victims of male violence also need it. For example, risk testing. The risk test of..., SIADs do a risk test, some, but not all. We'd have to find the way it's fessin' everyone and being uniformed. The Commissioners' risk test, I have already said, is that they are risk tests that only contemplate physical violence, do not contemplate psychological violence or other forms of violence, and that always gives a very low risk, and therefore women are not given protection orders. Polsers, geolocating wrists for the attackers, neither do we. There are people who have told me that there is no money to buy it; there are people who have told me that it is that the courts do not want to put it because this stigmatizes the aggressors. Look, he's as stigmatized as he is, the stigma they've been looking for. From everything you have said... respect the proposals you have made, to me they have seemed magnificent; if we pull them forward, they seem magnificent to me. And I'm sure they won't have a problem approving our young lady, because she went... I won't say that all in the same way, but there are a lot of things. And then... one moment, I don't know if I hear the letter. [[Pause.]] Oh, yeah, so I thought we were talking to the central government. Miri, respect the 2004 Organic Law I have already done, and I have begun to insist that change, because I really know that this is causing a lot of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.47.0	The word has the councillor of Igualtat and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.48.0	Thank you. So, just as we say, the judicial sphere is the one that will have a specific victimization analysis, and that also includes the spaces, as are the women, the motivations that can cause this lower percentage of protection orders in Catalan courts respect other places in the State. It is a mandate to the 17/20 Law and we want to make it evident in this first government agreement, as I said, because we have to name it for what it is, it is institutional rape; the law collected it this way. We have to socialize, we have to pedagogy this concept and take it as it is, from a work to be done, therefore, from a band with Justicia, from another band with Interior, as we are doing with different groups of work. I do have to tell you, though, that from the PR they presented last week, we have some considerations to make. First, the fact that all parliamentary groups are called together – and the word 'all here' is important. We understand that the groups that signed the agreement for a parliament compromised with democracy, rights and diversity will understand that not all can be called; some because they are a fan of negationism of male violence or instrumentalizing it with a xenophobic purpose; and another, in this case to the PP, we demand consistency: if they have resorted to Law 17/20 to the Constitutional Court, I do not know what they are doing in a pact to implement this law precisely. Clearly, the PR was very short and it costs a little to identify what is expected of this pact, and we hope that it will not be just a reproduction, either by mere inertia or by homogenizing will, of a state model of pact that has very important deficiencies. And I'm bringing those that we've already moved to the Minister of Equality two weeks ago, and which coincide with the position of the National Council of Donations of Catalonia, as well as that of the main feminist staging platforms of the State. On one side, it does not allow the development of multi-year projects, which are the most transformative. It is not possible to devote resources to the structural expenditure of Chapter 1, which would be essential to strengthen the professional care and support teams that were rightly targeted. The funds arrive well into the year, which makes it difficult to plan projects both from the entities and from the municipalities – asking the municipal area how the foundations of the state pact went. It has not been used for the exchange of good practices between administrations, nor is it sufficiently broad to cover the different forms of male violence, because it continues to falsify in an organic law that is out of date in its definition of violence, and, as I said before, does not complete international standards, such as the Istanbul Convention. And, for which we are above, the PSOE does not want to modify this law, because it is somehow the pretty girl of the Zapatero era. And if it is reviewed it will be very surgically, but not to make this focus wider than would require updating according to the Istanbul Convention. Then we ask ourselves: a Catalan pact for what? or a national pact for what? , to ensure coordination between the different departments of the Generality? , to promote instruments of participation, collaboration and cooperation between administrations, economic, social agents, entities and specialised professionals? , to vet for the compliment and evaluation of the agreed actions? If these are the objectives, it should be remembered that since 2010 the Government already has a structure with this composition and functions, which would, as I mentioned earlier, be the National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Male Violence, which we currently chair from the Department of Equality and Feminisms. Therefore, the coordination space exists. We have as a reference point a very powerful law, which is the Law 17/2020, approved unanimously before the end of the last legislature, and in the elaboration of which we are going to contribute various of the people that we now find ourselves at the councilhouse. Therefore, the absolute commitment of this law is total. So let's hope that we can work on this motion so that it's not just, as I said, this simple translation by inertia or an imported translation of a pact that is very limited in its practical execution, up to and including its conceptualization of what rapes are, and that it can serve, so that it can advance in this struggle against masculinist rapes, but it doesn't simply replicate what the law says, because we understand that what the law says the government has the obligation to execute it in its maximum power. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-10-05-1401.49.0	Thank you very much. We have now arrived at the next item on the agenda, but at the request of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left and in accordance with Rule 83.3 of the Rules, the proposal that the question before the Government about the situation of Afghanistan and the role of the Generality in the gathering of refugees, which appears as if five points from the agenda, we are going to take the substance down as if we were going to take it later, after point 18. Both the government, on one side, and the parliamentary groups, have shown their compliance. Can we approve this change by consent? [[Pause.]] So, if that's the case, let's change the order of the day. And, therefore, we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine. Thank you.
