ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.1.0	Very nice late. Let's resume the session. [[Discussion on the general political orientation of the Government (continuation)]] [[255-00002/13]] And we have made the presentation of the motions for resolutions following the debate on the general political orientation of the Government. I, in order to defend the motions for resolutions, will follow the order of presentation in the register, as laid down in Article 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure. The turn of the speech is a record that it will be a maximum of two minutes for each of the parliamentary groups. To begin, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of VOX, Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.2.0	Thank you, President. Well, I regret and take this opportunity, first of all, to condemn the rape of a woman in a home in Badalona and to recall VOX's position, which I believe is shared by all citizens: that if the offender, who raped this girl, is Spanish, permanent prison; if he is a legal alien, serving sentences in his country, and if he is an illegal alien, immediate expulsion, and should never have entered our nation. [[Some applause.]] I also want to take advantage of the fact that the separatists are returning to the attack. The CUP, for one band, and the tripartite hatred and division – Esquerra, Juntes and the CUP – have presented two motions for resolutions that raise a new reference and the right to self-determination. The two have been admitted to court for the Bureau of Parliament and now we will bring it to the Constitutional Court. And if they settle again – the Bureau – we will present the quarreling correspondents, because VOX will continue to defend unity, coexistence and legality. And, entering into this matter, this government comes to this debate of general politics divided, faced and obsessed with continuing to leave Catalonia in two, and with a plan of government that remains stagnant in its ideological, sectarian and detached agenda of reality: rupture, room ecology that harms the most humble, feminism that faces – considering the feminine good and the masculine as very bad – and social needs that still do not meet because they are unable to prioritize spending. From the parliamentary group of VOX in Catalonia we have clearly the needs and emergencies of Catalans. For example, the other day a marriage approached, in Nou Barris, and commented to me: "We have two children. We're waiting for the third and we're desperate. She had to close her hairdressing business and he, on his salary, did not arrive at the end of the month, and he told me: "And help, for the newcomers. A real drama. Pujol had voted in the past, last time socialists voted, and now he had it clear: he was going to vote for VOX. And therefore, in this general policy debate we have prepared the proposals that are in line with the defence of what citizens transmit and share on the street, which are nothing other than unity, coexistence and equality between Spaniards; defence of national products against unfair competition to promote employment; an efficient social and family policy; reduction of superfluous expenditure; drastic lowering of taxes; defence of the family perspective, life, birth, educational freedom, security, justice, and control of illegal immigration. In particular, we are presenting fifteen motions for resolutions. The first is for the defence and protection of the Catalan primary sector. Farmers, farmers and fishermen are fighting in unequal conditions against products that come from other populations, from other foreign countries, who are not forced to comply with what we are forcing them to comply with, which are health measures, environmental measures and social measures that we have adopted among all. And that is unfair, and that is why we propose to compensate them, for example, with part of the European funds. Proposal two, on equal rights and obligations of men and women. You only defend women; we want to defend men and women, the rights and obligations of both, and condemn all violence within family life, regardless of sex or age. We also advocate abolishing policies for the inclusion of gender and feminism perspectives, and promoting policies of a pro-family and pro-birth perspective. Proposal three, for the recovery of a safe Catalonia. We have a Catalonia, Mr President, plunged into chaos, insecurity and uncontrolledness. Cohabitation and peace are in danger because of the politicians who disobey, who pass the laws, who are all day denying our police, and this has to be reversed. Separatist delusions and jihadism are a grave danger to all. And for this reason we want to prioritize security policies, strengthen the police, integrate the National Police and Mossos d'Esquadra into one national command – yes, Mr.Elena, we will take away work –; comply with the law of aliens and the repatriation or return of illegal immigrants to their countries of origin; close mosques and entities that spread integrity, disregard for women or jihad. And we demand the immediate expulsion of fundamentalist magnets. And, of course, keep the Chief of Police in Barcelona, where it has to be, which is in Via Laietana. Proposal number four: we propose a modern, agile, effective and efficient justice, and we propose to repeal the sectarian law of democratic memory and to preserve, as part of our heritage, many monuments that are found in our streets, so integrated in our society, such as, for example, the monument to the battle of the Ebro, in the city of Tortosa. Proposal five. [[Some applause.]] You see that stable families are the best guarantee of people's well-being. The family must be the centre of gravity of our social policy. For these reasons, we propose to introduce the family perspective in a transversal way into all the policies of the Government of the Generalitat and to ensure a sufficient level of spending to protect the family and promote birth, combat and eradicate poverty in Catalonia and allocate resources to alleviate the abusive increase in the receipt of light, eliminating the taxes that impose it. Proposal six, for an integral conception of health. Faced with its culture of death, our culture of life, protecting it from conception to natural death, taking into account the relevant palliative care. Proposal seven, for a responsible economic and fiscal policy. Faced with its fiscal hell, which drowns workers and all Catalans, it eliminates chiringuitos, reduces expenditure, abolishs own taxes and, of course, practices justice with Catalans by eliminating the donation tax and the inheritance tax. And reduce the autonomy of the IRPF so that workers can have a more dignified wage. Proposal eight, for an integral redistribution of the audiovisual and media landscape. They have a media machine to serve hatred, resentment and division. That's why we want to shut down TV3 and Catalunya Ràdio, which ignore us day and day too, because we denounce what they practice and why we want to close them. And also, of course, eliminate subsidies to the private media, which ultimately serve the interests of the governing parties. And check the radio map to promote the freedom and plurality of radios. Proposal number nine, for the eradication of corruption and the opacity of the Catalan political class. It is very sad, but Catalonia is one of the regions of Spain and the regions of Europe with the most corruption, and we propose a series of legal measures to avoid this situation. Proposal number deu, for respect for the exclusive competence of the State. To remove, of course, the diplomats and all these agencies and institutes that have been invented, which they do is to steal from Catalans many resources for social assistance, which is what we should really be interested in. Proposal number eleven, for the recovery of political freedom in Catalonia, the end of institutional disloyalty and the reduction of political spending. Obviously, less autonomy and more pensions. Proposal 12 on the reorientation of digital and territorial policies to put them at the service of all citizens. Delete the tolls of the Generalitat. So much to claim to suppress the tolls of the State and, now that they have them, to invent the vinyet. And, in the face of the housing drama that you ignore, we need to increase the public offer of officially protected housing, because it is a drama that is very effective and that needs to be addressed urgently. Proposal thirteen, for an education and a culture free of rupturist ideology. And, of course, we have the freed counselor, Mr Gonzàlez: "not to choose language, "not to choose school, "not to choose the free educational model for our children. It is enough to 'no'; a little bit of 'yes' and freedom for parents, which we can choose. And that's why [[some applause]] we propose two instruments, which are the school check and the parental pin. Proposal 14 for environmental management based on the conservation and care of natural heritage. Faced with its urban ecologicalism, our conservationism of natural legacy. We defend the people of the countryside, the people of the sea, and we want to avoid those subsidies to oenegi who hate progress and have no idea of the sea or the countryside. And finally, a motion for a resolution by an ideologically neutral and accessible university for all and oriented towards academic and research excellence. And here are these proposals. And I would like to end by congratulating the entire Parliamentary Group of VOX in the Parliament of Catalonia, the coordination department, the legal department, the advisers, the department..., all the Members, for the extraordinary work in the defence and drafting of these proposals, which, of course, will be rejected, we already know. We have worked them with great enthusiasm, and they will be rejected many times without having read them, and sometimes they will have read them and liked them, but they will find it difficult to support some of VOX's proposals. But I would like to convey to the VOX Parliamentary Group that they do not worry, that in a few years' time the first one to intervene in this general policy debate will be Ignacio Garriga, because he will be the next president of the Generalitat. [[Some applause.]] And thanks to many socialist exvoters and many separatist exvoters, who see in VOX, these free citizens, a hope; they see, in our social and inclusive patriotism, a solution to their problems. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.3.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Nacho Martín Blanco.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.4.0	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, first of all, I want to make a clear observation. A parliament is a place in which to speak, in which to exchange opinions, impressions, freely, with respect to the rest of the formations, and, therefore, I cannot help but subtract myself from the speech that I have just heard from Mr Garriga, Mr Joan Garriga, relating to what Mr Ignacio Garriga also did yesterday. I think it is interesting for parliamentarianism that we are able to adapt our speeches to what we are hearing successively. And, frankly, Mr. Garriga..., Mr. Garriga, the idea of constantly linking crime with immigration seems to me simply abject. I find it simply unacceptable that this claim to point out to a collective, so, roughly, without any kind of nuance, with data, with percentages that do not correspond to reality as a whole. I'm not telling them to be fake, percentages; I'm saying they don't take all the variables into account. People who commit crime, on many occasions, do so not because... Careful, I'm not establishing a causal relationship, because I think I'm a person who, when I talk about immigration, I speak rigorously. Immigration has to be talked about, yes, indeed, but it has to be talked about responsibly, avoiding criminalizing entire groups, avoiding the targeting of immigrants per se. It is a discourse that generates animosity, that generates hatred, that generates a situation in society that is absolutely undesirable. Therefore, when we talk about the percentage of crimes committed by immigrants, let us also take into account the socio-economic conditions that flow into those crimes. Let us take everything into account, because sometimes the problem is not so much, for some, immigration as poverty, as situations of inequality. And be careful to criminalize immigration, because it is the worst of the ways that a society that you want free, that you want democratic and that you want equal can be done. I just want to tell you this, gentlemen of VOX. Moreover, today we have again a situation that is already common in recent years in this Parliament, in the Parliament of Catalonia, which is that the President of the Parliament has once again admitted to dealing with resolutions that are clearly contrary to the constitutional order, clearly contrary to what the Constitutional Court says, with regard, for example, to the right to self-determination. The right to self-determination is a right that actually exists in the international legal order; that actually exists according to what the United Nations says, its various resolutions, 15/14..., 15/14 is the main one, and, in any case..., 27/25 also. These are resolutions that, in fact, speak of the right to self-determination. That right does not apply, logically, to our community, does not apply to Catalonia, Catalonia is not a colony. I don't think anyone with two fingers in front can say Catalonia is a colony. I don't think anyone with two fingers in front can say that Catalonia is a territory subject to oppression or military occupation. I do not think that anyone with two fingers in front can say that Catalonia is a territory of which we have suffered systematic violations of our human rights. And, therefore, for a rational debate on this too, I think it is essential that we put the points on the yeses. Catalonia is not subject to the right of self-determination, and it is enough to deceive citizens with this hypothesis. However, I must admit that these days, discussing the various motions for resolutions tabled by the groups, in our group we have debated a little between perplexity, playfulness and a certain indignation – it is also true – because it seems to us that much of the motions for resolutions tabled by the separatist parties are, of course, a toll of hair, a toll of hair to the citizens of Catalonia as a whole and especially to those who have believed themselves to be the secessionist tale, the story that it is possible to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain without more, within the European Union, and without any problem. It has been seen that this is absolutely impractical, as Mr Illa said yesterday. The separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain, in our constitutional democratic system, including, of course, European and international legislation, is materially impossible, and I therefore believe that we must start by telling the truths to the citizens of Catalonia. I believe it is time for all Catalans to work for the good of Catalonia, yes, and for the good of Spain as well. Because the good of Catalonia is the good of Spain, the good of Barcelona is the good of Catalonia and the good of Catalonia is the good of the whole of Spain. I don't think it's that complicated to understand, and I'm convinced that there's much more that unites us than it separates us. I have for me that in Catalonia one day will come when the same thing will happen as in Quebec. In Quebec, as you all know, there were two referendums, against what some say, unilateral, not..., let's say, not legal in strict terms, but unilateral, in the year 80 and in the year 95, and today, in Quebec, absolutely nobody wants to know anything about referendums. Why? Because referendums divide, because referendums generate legal insecurity, generate political instability, generate corporate flight, and in Quebec, today, no one wants to know anything about a referendum. That is why I believe that the way is, indeed, the way of dialogue, of agreement, within the institutions, within our established institutional forums, to reach agreements for the improvement of the lives of the citizens of Catalonia. We, from our perspective, consider, for example, that we should defend consistently, convincingly, and certainly with much more support than there is, an extension of the Prat airport, which is a fundamental infrastructure for the citizens of Catalonia and Spain as a whole, and that unfortunately it is a project that has gone to the railway station for the lack of responsibility of the Government of the Generalitat. We believe that it is essential that this project recovers and that we can have adequate infrastructure. I think we already have some very good infrastructure in Catalonia – all international entrepreneurs who invest in Catalonia recognise this – but I also think we should insist on this also with the reform or expansion of Prat Airport. Mr. Illa..., Salvador, with all the affection, all the respect and all the admiration that you know that you profess, I think it is essential that we have one thing: after the speech of yesterday of Mr. Aragonès, that it was a speech clearly in order to deny what is called this "dialeg table" that we call "syntagious table", because we consider that the Government of the Generalitat wants to impose its thesis and that the Government of Spain seems that it can only compromise, it is a tragala to the Government of Spain. And from this point of view, what we consider to be fundamental is that the Government of Spain is very clear what our deliberative institution is, which is very clear what it is that it is possible to do, what it is that it is not possible to do. It is not permissible for the Government of Spain to accept a meeting with the President of the Government of the Generalitat in which, after the meeting, the flag of Spain is removed, which represents the conjunction of the Spanish citizens, which represents many Catalans, which represents, in short, the legality in force in our country. And it is unacceptable that there is this lack of respect for the symbols of all Catalan citizens and the rest of Spain. Therefore, I believe that this so-called ‘dialeg table, they see what we saw the other day in the speech of Mr Aragonès, and they see the motions for resolutions that today present us with the parties that support the Government, it is a_measuring that the only thing that allows us to save some time – to buy time for Mr Sanchez in Moncloa, to buy time for Mr Aragonès here in the Palau de la Generalitat – but in any case, I do not solve at all the problem of the citizens of Catalonia. Deia Agustí Calvet, Gaziel, that separatism is powerless for itself, that it only has the ability to bring some solution to Catalonia when it comes to contact with the rest of Spain, with the living forces of the rest of Spain; but clearly, at that time separatism ceases to be separatism. So what Gaziel said is that separatism has the capacity to create an episodic catastrophe in Catalonia, and unfortunately I believe that these episodic catastrophes in Catalonia have recently happened with mass periodicity. And, therefore, what would be desirable is that among all of us to avoid these episodic catastrophes, that what they do is to migrate enormously our possibilities, the possibilities of the conjunction of Catalans. That if we really lucidize among all to make a Catalonia more early, to make a Catalonia more developed, a Catalonia richer, in the marc, logically, than is our natural space, because we develop with normality in the rest of our compatriots of the rest of Spain..., I think it would be what we should be clear. From this point of view, among our motions for resolutions we speak precisely about this so-called "dialeg table and we also talk about the reform or the creation ex novo of an electoral law for Catalonia". Catalonia is the only autonomous community in Spain that does not have its own electoral law, and we believe that it is essential that there is an electoral law that properly recognises the proportionality of the vote and that does not threaten or harm the way in which the citizens of Barcelona currently vote, of regions such as the metropolitan area of Barcelona or the metropolitan area of Tarragona. From this point of view, we also have a motion for a resolution that basically what you want is prestige, that you want to put in value, that you want to be a eulogy of our democracy, of the Spanish democracy of 1978, of the Transition, of the Crown, of the state of law, of the autonomous state – yes, of the autonomous state. Sometimes some forget that Article 2 of the Constitution says that the Constitution is a foundation in the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation, a common country indivisible from all Spaniards, and recognizes and guarantees the right to the autonomy of the nationalities and regions that integrate Spain and solidarity among all of them. Therefore, we defended the autonomous mark, we defended our democratic state of law, we defended the continuity of Catalonia between Spain. And we consider that the best thing for Catalans is that some take what Mr Tarradellas – I also soc tarradelista – said: that in politics it is possible to make the ridiculous all the less. That's all, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.5.0	Then has the word, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, the deputy Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.6.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Good afternoon. Well, last Tuesday Mr. Aragonès said that they have a new way of ruling that is disruptive, you told us. He said: "We cannot afford the luxury of doing things as we had always done. I am already telling you that, if that is the aim of the Generalitat, I am telling you that they are going quite badly, Mr Aragonès, because, of course, what is disruptive, therefore, implies a sudden break or interruption, as the RAE says, and here the only thing we have seen break has been your government. Although, well, that's not new either, because you've been throwing your shit at your head for years. You do not swallow, Mr Aragonès; it is not that I care very much, but, of course, how the future of Catalans is in your hands, so at least it is worrying. But you are very aware of that bad relationship with your partners, and in fact here on Tuesday we saw it very clear – very clear. Because even though you told us yesterday that you enjoy or that your Government enjoys broad parliamentary support, you know perfectly well that you do not. You've already sweated the fat drop to be invested president, and now you have to go making funambulist balances, to the point, even, of coming here to beg mercy before Junts and the CUP. And I'm going to tell you one thing: it was really embarrassing to see it last Tuesday trying to make up for it in front of them. More than a general policy debate, I believe that yours seemed to be the final allegation of the person who is convicted and, in a last attempt to save himself, to get rid of the sentence, so you come here to try to give punishment. It really was pretty loud. But, of course, there is penance in sin: you have entrusted yourself to your partners, and now your partners have the skillet by the handle. What's going on, which, well, you don't have to worry much either, because here the gentlemen of the CUP have brought you a proposal for a referendum for 2025. That the truth is that the story of the film has changed quite a bit. I remember in 2017, for example, Rufián, who put himself there, in a threatening tone, and said: "In eighteen months we will have independence. In eighteen months, Rufián said in 17; it has been four years – we are in 21– and the gentlemen of the CUP bring a proposal by 2025. Come on, we've gone from the next eighteen months to another eight years to make a referendum, which is that I thought, according to you, they already said that they had done it and that they had won it. I mean, I really... You... what happens is that you live very well, live very well on account of the process. Because I say to the gentlemen of the CUP: why do we have to wait so long, until 2025? Don't you say you already have everything tied up, international support...? Hey, why wait so long? That they didn't have to touch it? Do it now, the referendum, don't you? What happens is that you live very well. And they also need more time to erode the rule of law. Because this is finally going to be a 2.0 hit, which I think is what they have in mind. And besides, they have found in Pedro Sánchez the perfect ally. You're working on it, but we're going to make sure your faces go down. You told us ‘disruptive government. I'm giving you an idea. Do you really want to be disruptive, Mr. Aragonès? It breaks with the coup tradition of separatism. That is going to be revolutionary and disruptive – that is. And don't keep going over and over again, that if now a referendum, that if now one doesn't know what, that if now a consultation... No, Mr. Aragonès. And then, besides, he also told us here that independence is going to bring us to Catalonia justice, freedom and prosperity, isn't it? , in that independence utopia that you have, that in reality the only thing that has brought us is decadence and moral misery. Because you, too, are repeating lies knowingly, and that, no doubt, for I believe it is of very little decency, and I think it is already well. "A fairer country," he told us. That is, those who distinguish between good and bad Catalans, those who pass the roller without glances; but what justice is that? That we already know the idea of justice that Puigdemont had, that he wanted to choose the judges by finger and, in addition, he intended that all acts emanating from the Generalitat would be impregnable. What justice is that, Mr. Aragonès? « Freer, he told us too. Look, if anything we've lost in Catalonia since you guys tied the blanket to your head, it's exactly freedom. I mean, it turns out that parents can't choose their children's education, you can't label your business in Spanish, you can't speak Spanish in the courtyard. You can't teach in Spanish now either, because Mrs. Geis has already taken care of putting on the watch that she dares to do. What freedom is this? And look, because this is what you are doing without independence or anything. I don't even want to imagine what would happen if you guys got away with it. "More progress," he told us. But what progress? If it is that here we are suffocated to taxes, with a drip of leaks of companies that does not cease, leaving lost opportunities like that of the expansion of the airport, and, moreover, giving an international image that is painful, Mr Aragonès. If that's progress, make them look at it. And no, as I have already told you, the process and independence are not going to bring justice or freedom or progress, but the opposite. Yesterday the spokesman for Junts also spoke. He spoke of the « apisonator of the State. Look, the only apisonator here is yours, which you trample and pass over the rights and freedoms of all Catalans. And, on top of that, the funny thing is that they call themselves the oppressed, don't miss it. It's just that you have to be brave. Look, I, Mr Aragonès, tell you that your government has not changed anything at all, at least in what we are in the legislature. We continue to be the ones who pay the most taxes, we continue to be the worst on health waiting lists, the most barracks we have, the worst on occupancy data and also the most companies we lose in favor of other autonomous communities. Well, look, in correcting and reversing your mismanagement, that of now and the last decade, is what the proposals that we have tabled this afternoon from my group focus on, because there is another Catalonia out there waiting for its opportunity and we do not resign. So there is an alternative, and these proposals that I am now going to summarise are the test. Generalised lower taxes; less own taxes – we propose the elimination of up to six own taxes –; reduction of the autonomous sections of the IRPF; bonus to ninety-nine percent of inheritance tax; minimization of property tax; tax subsidies also for childcare, text books, school materials, foreign language learning, health coverage – through mutuals – and also for the care of persons over seventy-five years of age, among other things. Catalan money has to be in the Catalan pocket and not in your hands, Mr Aragonès, because then we know what happens to that money. Another proposal: support for SMEs and self-employed. We must step up aid; more calls, more budget, and especially in those sectors that have been affected by their bad decisions, and I am referring to leisure, including night leisure, restoration, culture... You have to use your skills to help them recover, not to delay their recovery; skills and decisions so that they can rise again after the worst waves of the pandemic. Recovery, too, of lost opportunities. I was telling you before: the airport thing can't happen again. Do you really want a Catalonia of more progress, more prosperity? Well, don't frustrate investments of 1,700_million_euro. And we, from these proposals, urge the Government of the Generalitat to recover immediately the negotiations with the Government of Spain, because these are the negotiations that you would have to conduct, and not others that are solely of interest to you and yours. Another proposal focuses on education. We want quality education and, above all, freedom: the right of parents of families to choose the educational model for their children. It is they, and not the Generalitat, who know what is best for their children, and they can and must have all the freedom to choose what they consider best. Guarantee, of course, immediately that the Spanish language is to be used at school in at least twenty-five_per_cent, together with Catalan, of course, as the judgments of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia state. Mr Gonzàlez Cambray, Mrs Geis, I tell you that, as much as you want to corner and chase the Castilian in the classroom, we will not consent. And besides, I'm telling you that it's a personal commitment I have to families and students, they're not going to get away with it. And, by the way, Mr Gonzàlez, I am looking forward to you answering the parliamentary questions I asked you on account of that campaign of your friends, of the Platform for Language, who are pointing out to the students who speak Spanish. I have told you other times, but I will repeat it to you again today, because it seems to me fundamental: leave the children alone, it is good enough of those campaigns of harassment and of signaling to whom he speaks Spanish, which, moreover, is the majority mother tongue in Catalonia. We also put forward proposals to improve housing policies. We want more help to access social housing, for people in vulnerable situations, so that young people can also have access to their first home. We also propose the impetus of rehabilitation programmes, among other things, and something that is fundamental: to protect the owners from this growing escalation of octopus. It is true that they also happen in other parts of Spain, but here we take the palm; therefore, here we have to do something. And what we propose is something as simple as protecting the law-abiding and persecuting the non-lawful; I think it's a thing of drawer and common sense. And for that we have to review the police protocol, give them more tools, and that the owners can get their house back as soon as possible. Within these proposals, I also support and thank the state security forces and bodies. And by the way, Via Laietana doesn't touch. It is already right – it is already right – to try to systematically end everything that represents the State, in general, and the National Police, in particular. Another of the important proposals – I have only thirty seconds left –: strengthening health. I think this one explains itself. Thanks and applause alone are not enough, we must also take steps to strengthen the system. Finally, the neutrality of the institutions and the media. We want media that reflect the reality of Catalonia and not the reality of its government and its parties. That is enough: neutrality, diversity and plurality, and not that it becomes the media in the forum where Mrs Geis goes there to release barbarities, such as saying that the Assembly for a Bilingual School is fascist. No, it's not that, Mrs. Geis. And, of course, TV3..., we're waiting for you to grant this association a right of reply. I think it will certainly be interesting to see what some people are voting for this afternoon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.7.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the words of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.8.0	Thank you, President. President, councillors, deputies, deputies... From our parliamentary group, from En Comú Podemos, we believe that three – three – are the great reptes that Catalonia has the next decade: climate emergency, inequality and political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. And, in this context, we are concerned about the proposal that we heard yesterday from the Catalan Government and President Aragonès, a project that we believe is more of a past than not of a future. Today, the three great projects that the Government of the Generalitat has to relaunch Catalonia, to reactivate our economy, are the Hard Rock – the largest casino in Europe – the expansion of the Barcelona airport and the Olympic Winter Games. Three projects that will shipwreck, how it has wrecked the airport's expansion and how it is about to shipwreck the Hard Rock as well. The president said: "We are not the old ones, we are not the old ones, we are the old ones. So we invite him, replace him, to break the inertia of the soil, of the totxo and of more CO2, and also replace him to break with the inertia of pacting with joint petitions that ask and to smooth out or push the projects of Joint for Catalonia petitions that ask. He explained this week Greta Thunberg that new climate negationism is the speech of bla-bla-bla, of empty words, of impossible speeches. And in Catalonia we want to be an international referent: responsible gambling casinos, Mr. Puignero's green airports or sustainable Olympic Winter Games. And, after all, a broken and united government, a united and broken government at once. And, before this government of resignation, of an agreement that you have made so that you do not have more remei, from In Comú We can believe that we can not stand and we have to make proposals to recede the course of Catalonia. And it is in this sense that we have built our fifteen proposals for a resolution, moving from Catalonia of sun and platja, of play and of CO2 to a green, just and active Catalonia. And, in this sense..., it is the three plans that we used to work together on behalf of our president: firstly, a plan for the green Catalonia; secondly, a plan for the just Catalonia, and, thirdly, a plan for the active Catalonia. I refer, first of all, to the proposals for a resolution that are included in this plan for a green Catalonia to fight climate change. The first major objective we have is that Catalonia permanently sunk fifty percent of renewable energy by 2030, and to do so by setting aside a public energy company as it did in Barcelona. A Catalonia on, regardless of whether you were born, has access to sustainable transport; the Catalunya of the train, the Catalonia of the 21st century. This should be the only priority, our high priority in infrastructure: build the orbital line of rollers that is key to the Vallès, to the Maresme and to the Penedès; the train of rollers to Lleida, the tram trains from Camp de Tarragona, the Costa Brava or Manresa. And, in short, also..., because the territorial balance of Catalonia passes because there are no connections that allow it to move 'in time and in form as God mana between Lands of the Ebre and Barcelona, for example. And, about the airport and the Olympic Games, you know what our position is, but also that the Catalonian Parliament fixed..., that the fixed groups its position, and let us know if the Government, in the end, has entered into an agreement with the Government of the State of Scandinavia to the President of the Generalitat, where the Vice President, in this case, of the Government, has entered into an agreement that does not know or disenfranchise the President of the Generalitat. And, about the Olympic Games, we're making a mini-proposal. Basically, we ask for information and transparency. And, secondly, a real reference, where everyone... I insist, all cities and municipalities that are their Olympic or sub-Olympic, can vote whether or not they participate in the Olympic Games. And then we also claim two more plans: a plan for Catalonia just and a plan for Catalonia active, to give response to inequality and precariousness, to protect middle classes and working classes. People need a government that protects especially who they need most so that they can arrive at the end of the month – middle classes and working classes – and make it compatible with the ecological transition to avoid the end of the world as we know it today. I will only give a given, but I think it is significant: the poverty risk rate of minors in Catalonia has passed from twenty-i-five_per_cent in 2016 to thirty-three_per_cent in 2021. I insist, thirty-three per cent of children and adolescents in Catalonia are at risk of poverty, in Catalonia, the year 2021. I think that this should reflect on whether certain proposals, like, for example, doubling the assumption of childhood in the proper assumptions or setting a wage a maximum wage, are not at all urgent in Catalonia. And we also want to make more proposals: to allocate 1,000_million to housing policies in 2022; to protect the public school, which must be taken up in the fight against school settlement, also trying to prevent it from producing the mistakes that we have – or that have – had – been made this year in vocational training. And a country that also guarantees access to public health by reopening consultants and primary care centres, setting aside a plan of mental health or diagnostic tests to recover the ability to detect severe chronic diseases, such as cardiovascular or oncological diseases. And, ultimately, also, a health system that vitles for the rights of workers and internalizing workers, for example, health transport or 061. It is also the moment when, for example, health and safety, but also economics, we are debating the regularization of marijuana in Catalonia. We also believe that it is – in a government that has put the advice of feminisms in the way, which we value very positively – if we really want to be a feminist country, to ensure that the voluntary interruption of pregnancy is 100_per_cent guaranteed at the conjunction of the territory and in a public way. And also a country with cultural rights, with a powerful emphasis on artistic teachings. In short, we believe that, in order to make this Catalonia active and this just one possible, we need more resources; to continue, for example, with the fiscal reforms that we agreed on in the later assumptions of the year 2020, which amounted to more than 550_million euros for the public archives of the Generalitat. And we also want to talk about a new funding agreement. I would also like to place a given: the demand that generates more consensus on a possible agreement between the Government of the State and the Government of Catalonia is a new funding agreement of Catalonia. And we would also like to reflect: it does not seem strange to us that in Catalonia, when all the autonomous communities are bully, debate, make proposals, raise alliances, we do not speak, in this Parliament of Catalonia, or do we not discuss how it should be the new financing agreement between Catalonia and the State? Don't they think it's strange that only one proposal, which is ours, should be the proposal that Catalonia put forward on the new financing agreement between Catalonia and the State? And, finally, I want to get into the third repte that we had. We talked about the fight against climate-emergency, we talked about the fight against inequality, but we also want to talk, obviously, about the solution of the political conflict between Catalonia and Spain. We can have projects and horizons from all over the world. We aspire to a plurinational republic and to exercise the right to decide. And here I want to make a statement about your motions for resolutions: they will make proposals only in the half of the country. They confuse independence with right-wing decision-making. Reconfound defending the freedom of independent leaders with accessions to the Council for the Republic. And I think, in short, they're wrong. But we insist: we have plans and we have proposals. We have a proposal for the dialog table. We claim to advance pardons to the modification of the sedition crime. We also ask to shield self-government and more competition for Catalonia. Thirdly, we are calling for a new financing agreement to ensure better public services for the city and citizen communities of Catalonia. Fourthly, we claim national recognition, because, yes, Catalonia is a nation, and we believe it deserves the national recognition it has always claimed. And finally, we are very clear that the agreement that emerges from the dialog table must be voted for by the conjunction of Catalonia; it cannot be that Catalonia is the only autonomous community of the State that has a valid status that has not been voted for by the conjunction of its citizenship. And we want to protect the dialect of your adversaries. And today his opponents are in the state, with the right and the extreme right, but they're also in the government and they're sitting at the government council, and they're together for Catalonia. Our resolution is clear: we defend the dialogue – in this case, we also give support to the President to push forward the dialogue table – we give support to the dialogue and negotiation, and we also believe it must be a government-to-government negotiation. We believe that this dialog has to be dealt with willingly. I'm done. Yesterday, the president spoke of contradictions and coherence. He likes to quote a phrase from Fuster – I think I wasn't wrong – that says: "My contradictions are my hopes, a phrase that I especially like. I'll leave you another sentence for the dialog table: we all get to be right, we have it in myths. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.9.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Cid. Now, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Unites per Avançar, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.10.0	Good afternoon, President. Advisors, advisors, deputies and deputies... Yesterday I went over the intervention we were going to make in the general policy debate of the year 2020, and the truth is that I was surprised at our last words, that they were these and I want to share them with you. We said, at that time: "We do not deserve more this government that is broken, that is dying, that is not resolving the problems of Catalonia, that does not dialogue or agree. We need a government that you think of everyone and you represent everyone. What more powerful words still, huh? And we're giving it all up just now, like, a year ago. One year later, we have a different government and president, but the same division and the same inaction. President, we shall see at this end of the general political debate, for us, two difficult differences in the government's position. The first is about the dial table. We believe that there is no other way than the dialog and the retrobament. We think it's imperative that we stick to this bet. And, therefore, the announcements that we will vote in favour of the proposal that Esquerra Republicana and that the commons do in relation to the dialect. There's no alternative if you don't go this way. And we ask Juntes to leave, above all after listening this morning to his secretary-general at the SER, who has defended that now is not the time to set a date for a reference and has gone to the CUP to ask him to stop using open proposals against the political electoral opponent simply to mark a profile. Mr. Batet, if that's the case, as Mr. Sanchez says, they follow the dialog table, the table between governments, to talk about everything that matters without bias, and they don't use the dialog table as a proactive proposal against the political opponent. We all know that the PRs that present today and plant the commission of independence are sterilized. Already you said it in 2017, you did not do it and provoked deception, frustration and pain to the Catalan citizenry. And, therefore, it would be good for everyone to consider that the only way is the dialect, to resolve the political conflict that we have in Catalonia and between Catalonia and Spain. But not only among governments, President Aragonès, but also among Catalans. And here I want to ask you to reconsider our proposal for a table of dialogue between Catalan parties. We don't all think alike, and so it would be good to find those points in common. And, besides, I also say about these proposals of his, to commit independence, because Mr. Junqueras has said many times that there is not enough, of support for independence, that they fall deeper and stronger. So, escort, stop making sterilized proposals, let's go into the only possible way to resolve the conflict, which is that of the dialog. But the second incomprehensible discrepancy that we will also find in this debate and in your vote is at Prat Airport, a strategic infrastructure for Catalonia – strategic. We believe it's time to add, to dialogue. And that's why we wanted to make a deal with the Junta Group for Catalonia, because we have to compromise to keep working so that Catalonia doesn't lose opportunities again, not lose more opportunities. The last CEO of 2021, who was the maig, said that 69,2_percent of Catalans..., that the economic situation in Catalonia was once more worse. We can't lose any more opportunities, and this is one that we think can't be wasted. That is why it would be good for Esquerra Republicana to vote in favour of this proposal, which allows us to continue talking and working to convert Prat into an intercontinental hub that guarantees and respects the protection of the ecosystem. Our will – and you know it, as opposed to it – is to make a hard opposition when you don't do things right or don't do them, but also constructive. We understand politics as a useful tool for citizens. And so, as far as we can add up to move Catalonia forward, they'll find us, and you know it. We believe that this is very important: politics must be useful. That is why our fifteen motions for resolutions are on this line: to solve difficult problems in Catalonia, to give courageous solutions. And, as the chairman of our parliamentary group, Salvador Illa, says, we are in the policy of concrete things, and that is why our fifteen motions for resolutions are in this sense. And I'd like to comment on some of them. On education, Mr Gonzàlez Cambray – which seems to us to be one of the most important issues not only for Catalonia, but also, in general, for society – we are the second OECD country with younger people than they study or work – neither study nor work. We have a youth rate of 33,5_per_cent and a premature dropout rate of the disset_per_cent. How can we allow more than a thousand girls and girls in Catalonia to be left without being able to study a format cycle as they had requested? We can't afford this luxury in Catalonia, we can't afford it, and we can't go any further. That's why we say to him: "Let's get old and start working on this: more equipment, more teaching, better planning. Working with the economic sectors so that the training responds to the needs of the labour market, they deploy the law of 2015 that you have abandoned. And we hope that it will support the groups that are here at the Congress of Deputies to the new law of vocational training, which is a law that has been admired in which the Basque Country has made. I was a few weeks ago proving that we're a few years into your model. So it's the model that later replicates the law of professional training that is being passed to the Congress of Deputies. So much for the Republican Left and Junts for Catalonia, there, because it will allow it to be approved and we can also deploy it here. And this is embarrassing for all of us: after six years, Martorell's vocational training centre is still closed, with such an important and important automotive sector that it is celebrating in Barcelona these days. How could they not yet bid again on this vocational training centre? President Aragones committed himself to it before September 15th, and it's 30 today and they haven't done it yet. It's all right, these terrible incompliments. In salutation..., miri, we are satisfied, in salutation. With Mrs. Escarp we've been working this morning to make a deal with the government. There are great agreements on such important and salutary issues, especially after the pandemic. And, also, especially after having suffered for many years in detail. Now, it's important, finance, yes, but transparency is also important. And it is also important that you recognize that they have come, from the Government of Spain, more than €5,000_million in funds to strengthen our system of salvation, which you often forget in your interventions. And a very important issue – there is no advisor Argimon, but I'm sure they will pass it on – and we are concerned and very concerned about the Member of Parliament Escarp : we need to recover the diagnostic and treatment skills. In the midst of the pandemic, we have recorded a twenty_per_hundred fewer cases of cancer and forty fewer cases of infarct treatment. Where are these patients? It can't be. We really need to put ourselves on this subject. Quick, I'm moving on. On the subject of knowledge, Mrs Geis, we have made a very concrete proposal and we have not invented it. We have taken over the national pact for the knowledge society and we have put what you say here is that it is to be increased every year, bearing in mind that neither 2020 nor 2021 you have increased it, because you have extended the assumption, etc. So we've put in the figures that the national plan says for the knowledge society; if after you don't vote for it, listen, we're saying no to an agreement that generated a lot of consensus in Catalonia. And this happens to you, that when there are concrete proposals, with figures, they do not vote for them. It is possible that we have also made progress with industry, which we have put in place concrete resources: EUR 100_million, EUR 150_million for the night oci and tourism, which are being painted so much. It's not just about using verbs as "to deploy, "to facilitate, "to implement, "to strengthen, "to consolidate...We have to put in resources–we have to put in resources – and you don't put in them. And we would like our proposals that we do and that many of the figures come from approved plans, such as the national plan for the knowledge society, to be able to vote for them. And securely, President Aragones. We have the opportunity to vote on our motion for a resolution, which says: "We condemn violence, we support the Mossos d'Esquadra and cooperation between administrations. I am sure that you will vote for it, as it has been, and this is an issue that is going on in this debate. And two motions for resolutions that are on the line of prestige for our institutions, because we need to renew these hundred and twelve charges and I hope that the compromise will be made before the year ends, so it is approved for all the groups that we are here today. On the government's proposals, very quickly. We must tell them, from the outset, that they do not deserve much trust, because, first, you are divided, despite the fact that you have changed the cares, and they are the same parties that carry six years of rule. And we know what it means that some things are coming up here, because very often you... don't just complete them. In any case, they have made very generic proposals to us. We have counted 257 points to their proposals, i.e. out of 257, only five– five– have presuppostarial commitments; five of 257. In Fi, Mr. Turned, I'm waiting for your premise to see 'in the gifres. It's unbelievable. So, what have we done? As we start a new legislature, well, be, say, kind to you and vote for some things favorably, knowing that very often you do not complete. And let's hope there are serious commitments in the presupposition. President, the results of today's votes will give the measure of the degree of cohesion of your Government or of the degree of division of your Government, and, above all, of the degree of cohesion of this majority of Parliament in which you supported your investiture. I also tell you, President, that you do not repeat the mistakes we made in the past few years. Try to resolve the conflicts within your government to advance Catalonia, because we don't miss opportunities and because tomorrow we can feel more proud than today. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.11.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.12.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today is the eve of October 1st, and the sundown will be October 3rd. Four years ago and we are where we are, after winning a self-determination referendum that the people, organized, protected and made possible against the beatings and repression of the State, and in which a large majority of the Catalan society, whether independent or not, went out to the street to pick it up against police brutality and the persecution of the right to decide. That day of '1, like that of '3, is a compass. It's a compass: it shows us the path we have to go through in order to advance towards independence. We don't have to learn from that day and go any further. The U of October cannot be a fresco, it has to be an engine to advance. These days much has been said about the proposal for a resolution of the reference. And I want to explain why we put the reference to the time of this legislature. We've been clear since the first moment. We have a great scepticism, with this table of the dialect, which, moreover – and it was possible to see it all after this later found –, it was a weakness. This resolution proposal poses a B plate, a B plate to the dialog table, a plate that allows to generate tension with the State. Because we can't act like there's no conflict, the conflict is there. The proposal of a new reference draws a horizon that wants to be a lever to reactivate the conjunction of independence in a clear full path to a new reference and to generate conditions to make it possible and effective. If we get it granted to the State, perfect, very well; but is it someone who thinks this will be possible, if we wait for it to fall out of the cell? The claim of the right to self-determination and the right to independence must be exercised. And yes, it seems very opportune to take advantage of the international context. He planned to celebrate his reference, a new reference, in 2023. Bring it in. We put the debate on the right of self-determination on the international agenda, on the European political agenda. It's a good opportunity for us to take advantage of. And today, in this general policy debate, we have already seen, there are many proposals for full independence. It's logical, it's good news. And I want to comment on the value that we are fifty-two per cent. I'm telling you, we'll make it easy for you to approve. And now it has become clear that the aspirations for self-determination do not come forward without a day, we will abstain; or we will facilitate its adoption, but we will refrain from showing our discrepancy with the restrictions of the exercise of unagreed self-determination. With regard to the joint Esquerra and Juntes proposal on the Republic, as you know, this morning we made a compromise proposal. We didn't get out, but we'll vote for it anyway. For us it's a motion for a resolution that's lame, because it's left in a scene that won't solve the conflict for itself. Obviously, we share with Esquerra and together the need to articulate the national agreement for self-determination and amnesty, as well as to explore these complicitys with the intervention of the international community. Dissension is with the only goal that this proposal puts forward, that it expresses itself in order to achieve a given reference. We have already said so many times: independence must recover the initiative to do it, because it must mark a clear horizon, and take advantage of this aspect of Scotland seemed important to us. We regret that it has not been incorporated, but obviously we are voting in favour of it. We do not have enough time to position all the motions for resolutions that have been made by all the groups. We just want to explain that in some, in many..., in some of them we will vote negatively, and in many of the points that contain we agree. But, of course, we can't vote them separately, and some of them are points that cross red lines, so we don't want to contribute to what we think are wrong passes and we're going to vote negative. And now I am going to explain very quickly the proposals that we have had in this debate. I, before I did, wanted to comment on two things. One, first of all, the most important: in order to advance towards independence, it will be necessary for independence to make up the country's social agenda. The struggle for the Catalan Republic must also be the struggle for a more just country to serve the working people. That's why we insist on this left-hand turn. And two: many of the proposals we have made, which we are carrying today, have already been presented to the first general policy debate where there was the UPC. Eight years ago; we are still in the same social and economic folds of the country, and we are still in the same compromise. I'll tell them very quickly. We have a proposal for a public health, management and supply. After the 2010 retail, the public health system has not recovered, and with covid-19 the heavy shortcomings have remained at the discovery. On inclusive school..., one of the great slopes of our education system: which is still out of the question. On the right to housing, we ask you to fix the presupposition at a minimum of €1,000_million in housing policies and expropriate the empty floors to increase the public park. Distribute the rich mediating the implementation of universal basic income. An industrial model that fosters co-operativeism and conversion to an innovation-based model. Stop speculative macro-projects such as the Olympic Winter Games, the Circuit de Catalunya or the expansion of the airport. We have said this many times: it takes a change of model that also faces the climate emergency and guarantees energy sovereignty. And, please, we're already the public energy company. It's an absolute emergence. Agrarian reform proposal: to move forward in a land bank rethinking the current agricultural model and guaranteeing the working rights of temporary workers. For what it does to language and culture, we demand a cultural emergence plan to guarantee the right of access to culture and specific measures to guarantee, also, access to learning and use of Catalan language. Finally, three main elements: to withdraw distinctions and tributes to the thief and corrupt Joan Carles de Borbó; in repressive matters, to withdraw all the particular accusations against demonstrators and political activists, to stop applying the law bite and not to collaborate in the racist beatings of Spanish police bodies, and, lastly, to end a self-determination reference before the end of the present legislature, as we have already spoken enough. It started four years ago and we're where we are. The main parties of the 78th rule tell us that we must pass the page, that we must obliterate this hope, while applying a fierce repressive revenge. Those days we had to exercise popular power, by no means, and there were many of us. And that scares them. That puts them in danger. On the left is the power system where their extractive networks are set up to make the most of our lives. Our self-determination weakens their tentacles. That's why we want to exercise it. They tell us we can't exercise it, so we'll exercise it as many times as we can. So I end up presenting, today, in this plenary and in this general policy debate, the explicit support for the charges by September 23rd – I bring them here. The repression that does not stop and that they intend to destroy the lives of thousands of people – and we are already going for four thousand – cannot stay out of this hemisphere, cannot stay out of this debate of general politics, if we really want politics to be useful to people's lives. To stop being trapped in the past – yes, to stop being trapped in the past – the past of a bitter oppressive constitution of the franchise that led us to the democratic emergence and the past of a predatory economic system that led us to the climate and social emergence, we are here: to push this indispensable change that demands the street, fights, and to bring there the voice of so many reprisals for the repression of a demophobic state. For the 23rd, for the [*** #014350] and the fines for the denunciations, and many more, the best honor, the victory. Visit the Catalan Free Countries. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.13.0	Next, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, the Member of Parliament, Mònica Sales, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.14.0	Very honorable President of Parliament, very honorable President of the Generality, councillors, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. The reality is pitiful, even though many of you insist on rubbing it under an appearance of false normality, even though many of you tend to hide it, even though many of you agree to deny it. We have seen it again in some of the interventions during this general policy debate, but the reality is coughing up. The president of our parliamentary group, Albert Batet, explained to me during his speech yesterday. And the reality is that the Spanish State follows with its authoritarian drift, which applies with persecution and repression, an anti-democratic attitude that meets once and for all with the judicial defeats that come from Europe, a demophobic behavior that always remains in evidence before the victories in exile. This week we took the last example with the illegal detention of President Puigdemont in Italy, and it will be necessary to clarify whether the Spanish Government was one of the material authors of this judicial and police tripod, as pointed out by some media. Because the null separation of powers forms part of « made in Spain. Today, the Council of Europe has again withdrawn the lack of independence of the judiciary in Spain. In any case, and as I said, the arrest of President Puigdemont was a new display of the Spanish State's desire to suppress the independence movement, a practice that does not cease. Repression doesn't stop, that's reality. And that's probably why they're missing the background that independence represents. They passed from the disaffection, of which President Montilla spoke because of the judgment on the 2010 Statute, until the breath, with which parties and unionist media figures have defined all the multiplicity manifestations of the Diada or the criparatory victories that have achieved independence elected by the election, in the same way that they thought they would stop the referendum of '1 October, of which we celebrate the fourth anniversary tomorrow, with pilions and strokes of baton. It is his way of giving the scale to fifty-two per cent of the citizens of Catalonia who in the elections of the 14th of February voted to advance towards independence. They trust that they'll need us, they'll scare us, they'll chase us and they'll be able to make us change our parenting. They think that with four promises that always end up inconclusive will be enough. Before they called it the rain of millions and now the agenda of the reunion, but it is more than the same. And let me tell you this: this is magical unionism, the agenda of the reunion is magical unionism. [[Some applause.]] They claim that, by magic, most Catalans take us one day convinced that our future will be better if we continue in the Spanish State. As soon as they touch a few on the ground, the sooner they will come to terms with what reality is. The reality of the Spanish State and the conjunction of independence, which is a majority in Catalonia, is what we set out and defend in the three motions for resolutions that we have jointly tabled with Esquerra and that I will now detail them briefly. First proposal: we are fifty-two_per_cent. This is the historical support that we received from the independent parties in the elections of the 14th of February, a result that challenges us and commits us to all those who want the Catalan Republic; a result that legitimizes us and forces us to move forward either through negotiation or through the path of civic and peaceful confrontation that forces the State to resist repression through amnesty, but above all allows us to hold a referendum with the State, because only a referendum pact can replace the political mandate of the referendum of the 1st of October. Because we defend the U of October, because we believed it and because we continued to believe it. That's why he's been arrested, that's why he's still in exile, that's why he's following the police and judicial persecution. If we went back to making a unilateral reference, what would we do differently from October 1st? How would we ask the voters of 'no? Would we have an election union? Would we have the certainty that we would not be stunned again? But the most uplifting questions are not these. The question is: why do we have to delete the legitimacy of the U of October – which is actually motor – for a reference of the characteristic sames? Why? From the Juntas for Catalonia we consider that you have only felt that you have replaced the U of October for a given reference, so that you continue to link for the Spanish State and so that you continue fully recognized for the international community. That's how we've always defended him, and that's how he shows up on our election program. In this respect, I would like to acknowledge, on behalf of our parliamentary group, the independent members of the Bureau of Parliament, in particular President Laura Borràs and the secretary of the Bureau, Aurora Madaula, for their determination and commitment to defend the rights of the Members so that we can express ourselves freely in this Chamber. [[Greetings.]] The second proposal is that the Spanish State cannot present fully democratic credentials – I referred to this in the context of the intervention. The Spanish judicial and police systems systematically violate elementary guarantees of the state of law, because we suffer a brutal war of different powers of the state that only want to criminalize us and punish us. These are irregular acts which European justice once and for all disallows, and which are also discredited by resolutions of various international bodies such as the Council of Europe. And finally, the third motion for a resolution on the reality that I was commenting on a few minutes ago and which expresses Parliament's support for the very honorable President Carles Puigdemont, especially after the new episode of political persecution that suffered just today a week ago in Alguer. Because he is the president of the U of October, he is the president of the exile, the president who makes a huge pocket to internationalize the cause of independence to the head of the Council for the Republic. Thank you, President Puigdemont, for your leadership and for your courage, not to give up, to resist until you reach the Catalan Republic. [[Greetings.]] Thus, in this general policy debate for Catalonia, we have also explained our model of country: the Catalonia of "yes to Catalonia of "not everything, as the chairman of the parliamentary group, Albert Batet, said yesterday; a Catalonia of progress, of well-being and freedom that goes beyond Catalan language and culture; a Catalonia of illusion and hope, and a Catalonia of better. That is why we are putting forward a motion for a resolution in this sense. To be a capdavanter country we need first level infrastructure such as Prat airport. It's an economic hub engine for attracting investment, hosting international events, and capturing talent. That is why we ask the government to require the state to take over the full management of the airport and to keep the investment of 1,700_million euros from which it has committed itself. Obviously, with the need for enlargement to preserve Ricardo's gap and minimize environmental impacts on the Natura 2000 network, as claimed by the European Union. Because together for Catalonia we are the ones who defend Catalonia from « yes, but not at any price. There are lines that we will not pass, and one of them is sustainability and environmental protection. That is why we are also putting forward a proposal for a recast resolution on the project and the outline of the five MAT lines that affect our country from south to north. And, in this sense, we also refer, as it cannot otherwise be, to the undue and unjustifiable increase in electricity prices. I'm done. The Catalonia that we want, the Catalonia that we want, the Catalonia that we want, we know that it will not be possible in a state that has been daily against us, that harms our progress and our well-being, that punishes us and represses us. That is why the independent parties and the government must be worthy of the trust that fifty-two per cent of the citizens have given us to make independence possible. Close to moving forward and doing so together, with a culture of unity between independent parties and a culture of coalition between government parties. That's the path. Make it together and make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.15.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Marta Vilalta's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-09-30-1203.16.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you very much, President. We are already looking at this final line of the first general policy debate of this legislature and also at this new stage of the new Republican Generality, where the independence of the left is at the forefront of the Generality. In this new stage we are and we have the confidence and responsibility to transform. So we have been explaining this: to transform so that we simply stop doing things the way we always do, the way we always do and the way we always do. And that, as the President of the General said on Tuesday in his speech, is to rebel against the wicked past and "this has always been done this way or this cannot be changed. And in this new stage, we have the confidence and responsibility to lead the four transformations that are essential for our country: social, democratic, green and feminist. We want these four transformations. And, besides, we have four commitments: commitments with the pacts and with the agreements that we have already reached with other formations; commitments with republican values, which guide and define our political action; commitments with the people, to whom they owe us, and commitments, also with the country.
