ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.1.0	Good morning. Let us resume the session with questions with an oral answer to the Government. [[Ask the Government about the nova llei state d'habitatge]] [[310-00124/13]] Let's start with the question to the government to answer orally in Ple about the nova llei stato d'habitatge. The question is posed by Mrs Marta Maderas, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.2.0	Thank you very much, President. In fact, I wanted to ask a question about the right to housing law, the state law. Good morning, counselors, advisors, fellow MPs. Actually, I'm directing them to Constellera Violant Cervera. In fact, we are all aware that habitation is an innocuous challenge. I think that all companies and companies will share that there are many access difficulties, that is, that there are equal access difficulties in access to housing. We all agree that it is an essential good, that it is a good that all people must be able to access it. And this difficult access is palpable. In fact, we know that young people, for example, here in our country, therefore, have to cheat three years more, for example, on their emancipation because of these difficult access to housing. Families that precisely, after the pandemic and as a consequence of the effects of the pandemic, so, even though they may not have been able to access these difficulties before, now have these difficulties and come to light and even expose themselves to possible denunciations. Large suns, surely the most important nuclides are women, women who are blind and have few entrances, people with disabilities. This law for the right to housing, effectively, therefore, from here we see little ambitious. We believe that it will not give an answer to the citizenry. Actually, it's a bad law. All just talks about things that we already talked about in Catalonia in 2007, about essential information about the immobiles, essential contractual information, the subject of rubbers, etc., for reasons of profit. Grinyola, more so, with Catalan. Don't set res respect to eliminate denunciations. Also grinyola with Catalan respects the great tenors. Also in his conception, etcetera. So, we're worried, we're worried a little bit that then there may be difficulties in implementing all of our legislation. For all this, Counselor, we wanted to know how much you value this new law of state housing and what measures you think will last to protect our skills, as well as the Catalan legislation, which will soon come to add... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the deputy and she continued to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.3.0	To answer, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", social rights advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.4.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, MPs... So yes, you're right, on the 26th of October, the Council of Ministers approved the bill of law on housing law. Since the Government of the Generality, as it cannot be otherwise, we value this law negatively. I'll tell him only four motius. The first – and you have said it enough – is because it is an attack on our competitions. One attack, and more, because it affects the truncated habitating standards of Catalonia. Standards that, as you said, were approved in 2007 with the law of right to housing, or the Law of 2015, urgent measures of housing emergency and poor energy. Therefore, one of the measures that we will use and do, like the Government of the Generality, is that if this rule is not changed in its parliamentary procedure, we will bring it to the Council of Statutory Guarantees and also to the Constitutional Court. But another one of the reasons we don't like this is because it's an attack on consent. At the consent of the Parliament of Catalonia, these housing laws in Catalonia were approved with a broad consensus, but also through all the fabric and all the social fabric. So it's also an attack on consent. For another song, this law we consider that it does not contemplate any measure of financing. Housing laws are very regular in housing laws, but basically what is needed is, too, measures to deal with this housing emergence. The housing plans, which in the year 2009 the Generalitat previewed up to 120_million euros, at these moments we are receiving 50_million euros. And only from the Habitatage Agency, through the social logger, we have already allocated more than €100 million to help social logger. Therefore, it is a law that in principle is also very poorly financed. And finally, as you said, it does not contemplate any measure to be able to face the most important housing problem we have at these times, which is the problem of denunciation. It does not include structural measures, nor does it include the measurement of the compulsory social logger and changes the rule of yield containment. Therefore, it is a bad rule, if the Congress of Deputies approves it as approved by the Council of Ministers. Therefore, it attacks the competitions, does not contemplate the denunciations, attack, because it does not contemplate any economic measure and also because it breaks the consensus. And from the government, we regret that there are political parties that, when they are at the opposition, they are very brave to claim according to what measures and, in turn, when they are part of the government of the state, they do not have that same courage. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.5.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on the decarbonization of mobility. [[Ask the Government about the decarbonization of mobility]] [[310-00125/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Sales, Member of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.6.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, these days that the Glasgow Summit is celebrated, we have to denounce once more that we are in a climate emergency. An emergence that is evident with virulent meteorological phenomena, that before it is not produced; that is evident with the regression of the coastal line, for example, to my lands, in concrete to the Ebro Delta; that is evident with the loss of species or with greater atmospheric contamination. All these changes that we have forced the government to change, but also the citizenry, in general, because we adopt ourselves to make it happen. In this sense, we have for a few years decided to bet on some policies, some ways of doing and some changes needed to improve the salvation of the planet and to improve our quality of life, that of everyone. This climate emergence makes no distinction, asking us all, all sectors of society: businesses, administrations, citizens, etc. We are aware that we are being changed. Some, which can be very quick, and others that will require more time. You, as vice president, already work with us, as a parliamentary group, too. We know that the government is aligned with the 2030 Strategy to adapt to this new reality, and that some of the different departments are pushing for action in this sense. But we also have everyone's involvement so that we get used to walking, cycling or public transport, on a private motor vehicle. Because we must reduce the emissions of contaminants, which are not only harmful to the climate, but also to our salvation. Reducing private motor vehicles in short travel would have very positive effects in Catalonia, in terms of improved traffic flow, road safety and air quality. Decarbonization is one of the most important challenges we have, not only for an economy that is free of externalities and more efficient in the use of energy, but also for mobility, to achieve a more sustainable, decarbonized mobility that integrates digitalisation and ultimately leads us to make a qualitative and quantitative leap in all those areas that make reference to this mobility. Vice-President, from Junts to Catalunya we would like to know which actions are being carried out in order to make possible this decarbonization of mobility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.7.0	To answer, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. Indeed, these days in Glasgow are discussing one of the great changes that must occur to humanity in the next few years, which is this shared struggle, among all, to cope with the climate change. And in this fight, I think it's time to move from words to facts and facts, above all, to concrete actions and commitments that we make each and every government and everything, personally. Miri, in order to, say, fight from my department the fight against climate change, we have different ways of doing it. One of them, of course, is to encourage and enable more teletreball. If we avoid certain displacements, we will certainly also be reducing CO2 emissions. But, in the specific question that you have asked me, it is very important to do specific actions in the area of decarbonization of mobility. Forty per cent of CO2 emissions in Catalonia today are caused by round mobility, by round traffic. And, therefore, here we have a lot of work to do. So, too, obviously, in the share of transport as well as in the share of infrastructure. Fixi's, this week's head we'll set aside three nine stations on line 10. This is a measure clearly in favour of the fight against climate change, as well as the fact that there are three stations in the Free Zone, which, therefore, is an indispensable means of transport in order to be able to work. Let's go, too, other actions. For example, the one we've already done, which has been in the liberated toll zone. These last months, in the remaining area, the remaining space released there..., we will place photovoltaic plates here, which we have calculated that, as this occupies a space of about eleven hectares, it will allow power to be given to the whole system and the whole network of generality reels. Therefore, we will be and will be able to say that the network of reelers in Catalonia will be sustainable and green once we have done this. And, finally, it also allows'manufacturing that we will soon extend the bonus and discounts – in this case to the tolls that Romanesque in Catalonia – to zero vehicles or low emissions. With this, obviously, we also intend to encourage a renewal of the fleet of vehicles and, therefore, a much greener and more decarbonised mobility. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.9.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the extraordinary fund for the covid. [[Ask the government to answer about the extraordinary fund for the covid-19]] [[310-00126/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Elsa Artadi, Member of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. These days are dealing with the general assumptions of the State which, as always, come with great promises and which, in reality, end up with great shortcomings. Promises oblivious to the beginning of the vote, failings that end up becoming a hardship for the Catalan citizenry and the Catalan economy. Presumables that are already incomplete with the need for infrastructure in Catalonia and with the size of our economy. In addition, on a few days when we see that the execution of this year of the assumption will be very low. And it's that the first data tells us that Catalonia is the territory of the State where there is a lower execution than all. I suppose this is the image of the progressive government, considering itself very Catalonia. And it is also the image that only happens when a government of the State systematically fails with our country. In this context of false promises and failures, do we want to ask you, counselor, the assumptions of the State include some mechanism that guarantees that that promise will actually arrive in Catalonia? Does the State's assumptions include any mechanism that compensates for all the inefficiencies in infrastructure that we accumulate from so many years? Or correct these assumptions of the flagrant failure in the management of European foundations on the part of the Generality and also of the Catalan municipalities, in this example to the purest style of the PP, to refocus competitions? And finally, counselor, also ask him, what happened to the extraordinary foundations of the covid, resources that had certainly arrived by 2020; that had arrived to a lesser extent, but that they had also arrived at the length of 2021 to compensate for all the consequences that the pandemic has and that it seems that, on the part of the Spanish Government, the covid, on 31 December, will disappear, will end the year, will close the pressure and, perhaps, the consequences of this pandemic for the assumptions of the Generality, for families and for the impact on the economy, will also disappear or, as at least, will cease to be its problem. Again, we see the government of Socialists and Podemos-Communs repeating the same tactics that make the governments of the PP: nor donate to Catalonia what it needs and centrifuge in the territories the needy and the problems. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.11.0	To answer, has the word Lord Jaume Giró, Counsellor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.12.0	President, thank you. Thank you, Mrs Elsa. Well, the theme of extraordinary foundations I covet I think is one of the most important issues we have right now, all of us, also this Parliament, because, as you know, 2020, when the pandemic broke out, we had an extraordinary spending on sanitation, education, social rights, around €3,600_million. That year, after a lot of flushing, we managed to get the state to bring in an extraordinary 3,200, over 3,600. The year 21, this year, we are around a cost of 3,200 and an extraordinary fund of 2,100, where the gap, therefore, is already an important gap. And this year 22, the next year 22, the planned spending on health, education, social rights, basically, is between 1,600 and 1,700, and it has not predicted anything. He hasn't predicted anything. It is like thinking that from the generation all the consequences of this impressive pandemic that has generated a health crisis from which we are beginning to emerge, but also economic, there will be no consequence at the level of all the teachers, all the teachers and all the social expenditure that has been associated. Therefore, I would like to take advantage, if I may, with all humility, of the fact that all the parliamentary groups here are asking the general premise of the State that there are these covetous foundations, because they are instrumental in managing the year 22. Now, say that, the theme of this covid is a conjunctural, conjunctural theme. The structural issue is infra-financing, an infra-financing that we have been running for decades, honourable Member, as you know very well, and that is an economic wisdom that is not pandemic, it is endemic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.13.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on cases of sexual attachment to the Generalitat. [[Ask the Government about cases of sexual attachment to the Generalitat]] [[310-00127/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Susanna Segovia, Member of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Pomem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. I suppose you could read just like the rest of the alarming data that Critic magazine published last week, in a Laura Aznar report, about the cases of sexual or sex settlement that had occurred to the Generalitat de Catalunya since the approval of the law for the effective equality of men and women. Sixty-five cases, in concrete terms. This is alarming, but the most alarming is that from the information provided to the Catalan Institute of Donations it was stated that only four of these sixty-five complaints had ended with some type of sanction for the aggressor, four of these sixty-five. Some of these sanctions were welcomed, others were relocated, which as well as the sanction is more than questionable, relocate the aggressor, if that is the best answer that can be given. Most of these reports are that there are no clues. Therefore, we do not know whether it is because the investigation was not carried out properly, or because a correct follow-up has not been given to the victim who reports this attack... In others another type of conflict is said. In others it is said to be closed, without giving any explanation as to how it was closed and who followed the conclusion... Councillor, we would like to know how much you value from your advice these data. We understand that you are more recent, that many of these attacks and all of this happened before you arrived at the station, but we understand that now, as the adviser, from these data have some responsibility and some response to give. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.15.0	To answer the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Member, the International Labour Organization estimates that between 40 and 50 percent of women in the European Union have suffered sexual assault on work, and that it is an abuse of power that has much less sub-denial, because of ignorance of the protocols, because of distrust, even, of the protocols or also because of the negative consequences. It is intolerable that there is a working risk for women to suffer from this asset, and that is why we have to deal with the highest degree of force, both in the private sector and in the public sector, and especially in the public sector, we have the obligation to act with exemplaryness, both in the field of prevention and in the field of case management.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.17.0	To answer the question, Ms. Susanna Segovia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.18.0	Counselor, I'm not surprised that we agree on the diagnosis, or else, we know what the situation is, we know the gravity of the facts, but what we're asking is what is the answer that will now be given by the Government of the General Council before these data. Lack of information: what types of actions have been reported, how these investigations have been conducted, what responses have been given, how the victim has been accompanied. What we're worried about is that after seeing this data, and more so from all these complaints that haven't come to the door and we don't know why, is that there's no proper follow-up and guarantee for people who are going to report an asset of this type. So, there's a quick and emerging response, and we don't have a lot of it, and we all have it in our heads, which went to the Foreign Councillor's office in the past legislature with Councillor Alfred Bosch, and that the expedition was closed without a sanction, because as he had resigned, he didn't want to do it. Clearly, at the end of the day, the problem is that we have a feeling of impunity, that complaints do not take place and that we are not accompanying victims. The Institut Català de les Dones, after approving the law, informs – they are data of the Institut Català de les Dones – that they have not given any sanction, that they have only given warnings. We don't think that on a subject like this, there's enough warning, we think we need to do a much more serious job from the Administration to make it clear that no sexual assault or sexual assault... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the deputy and she continued to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.19.0	To answer the word has the councillor of Equality and Feminisms.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.20.0	Penalties in any case would correspond to the Catalan Institute of Donations, because this is not the competence attributed to it in the law of Equality, and the protocol of the Generality is carried out or is managed by public officials. That said, we share that a refined analysis of how the protocol is being implemented and that is why the Department of Presidency and Equality and Feminisms are due to the end of a series of actions, among others, to make an assessment of the functioning of the entire investigation process, of what complaints and what sanctions are being carried out. The complaints have a much wider range than just a possible addition, this in both the assessment of Law 17/2015 and the diagnosis of the second level of equality of the Generality. On October 26, the Executive Board approved the Public Server Ethical Code, which included the obligation of prevention in the matter of sexual settlement and due diligence. In the third place, also from the Marked Protocol for the Approach to Masclist Violence which is being updated by the General Directorate for the Eradication of Masclist Violence, it is envisaged to review the Generality Administration protocol to adapt it to the standards of Law 17/2020 in matters of due diligence, accompanying victims, reparation, and, at the same time, to bring all cases to light and that the protocol is also intended to provide mandatory training to both the civil service and the labour force, as well as to the other branches of the Generality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.21.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in plenary on public universities. [[Ask the Government about public universities]] [[310-00121/13]] The question is posed by Mrs. Alicia Romero, Member of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.22.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, counselors and counselors. Constellera Geis, the Spanish State has approved for this 2021 an extraordinary covid fund for the autonomous communities with a total value of 13,400_million euros to strengthen the welfare state and try to mitigate the effects of the pandemic. On September 10th, the Spanish Government transferred 70 % of these resources, which are EUR 1,513 million, and the rest will be transferred this November. Last year there was a share of these resources, of the 16,000_million that there was of the fund, destined for public universities. What will be the game for public universities of this foundation in 2021?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.23.0	To answer the word, Ms Gemma Geis, Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.24.0	Good morning, president, councillors, councillors, deputy. Indeed, last year they approved these coveted funds and you explained very well what their application was. In addition to the demand made by the Economic Adviser, and it is true that the past year the Catalan universities have received 35_million covid funds and, therefore, this year together with the Economic Adviser we have already communicated to the universities that there will be a covid fund of 14_million euros, which will roughly agree with the expenses that we have received from the application, right? , of the effects of the covid fund. Therefore, this is already being done by the Council, and as soon as possible the universities will be able to do so, and as they have already advanced, we know exactly who are the expenses they have credited. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.25.0	To answer the question, the Member of Parliament, Alicia Romero, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.26.0	He'll advise, I'm glad I talked about these 14_millions. It's not enough, the year was forty, it wasn't supposed to be sixty-nine, Councilman Tremosa will remember, that the two of us were complaining about it, because they were going to lose thirty and we don't know where they were going to talk yet, but, anyway, 14 is not enough, but as it is a good one..., it's a proposal that will go well for the universities, since at these times all the rectors and rectors that explain it is that they will have disabilities and have problems to close the year. Some are already having problems paying for names and, therefore, in view of the infra-finance that universities suffer, not yet, but since the year 2012, when the assumption was detailed a twenty_per_cent, the situation is asphyxiating. And despite everything, he has made a lot of effort in the entire university public system to keep the levels in teaching and research, but there isn't enough. Councillor, just two years ago the Rectors and Rectors made an act to the paranimf of the University of Barcelona, approved a document that was very interesting about finance and asked, above all, that we should recover the levels of 2010 and above all that a national plan for the society of knowledge had to be approved. This we wanted to do, we did the year 2020, in the middle of the pandemic we approved this national plan and there we made a commitment that every year there would be an increase of 80_million euros net for universities and 40 for non-university research. Neither 2020 nor 2021, with presuppositional prorogation, this was possible. So, we're two years behind in this increase in admissions that we should have for the universities, which are patenting, and a lot. And just at these moments that we need to bet on the knowledge society, we can't afford any further delays.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.215.0	To answer the word, the Research and University Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.28.0	Actually, it's 14 million, but they also require us to believe who the expenses that the universities, let's say, have considered from their management. Therefore, there is a correlation between the funds that the Generality has assigned and the expenses that the universities have credited to us. I think we need to be as strict as we can in Parliament, too, huh? We're in permanent contact with all the universities, we know what their situation is and, therefore, we're saying that there are universities that are in a risk situation of paying for their names, I would also ask you, therefore, that this situation that you claim was really real, because it's not so, huh? It's not like that. And, therefore, they demand the utmost rigour because everything we say here also has an impact and, therefore, I know why you say it and this is not so and we are in permanent contact. Second, in relation to funding, so it's true – it's true – Catalonia needs to increase funding for university research. And on the assumption that we will approve in the Government of the Government of Catalonia there is this bet that we have made in this government that this council is not only to be a councillor with a staff, that this is only absolutely indifferent, but that this councillor is to have an office, and the political office is to have some premises. And, therefore, if there are any assumptions in the Generality of Catalonia, there will be a concrete bet for the research and universities of this country. And I would like to remind you, in the line of the national pact too – which is this country pact – and I would also like to remind you that 2017 was €773 million from the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge; 2020 was €930 million, so there was already an increase, and the next year, if we have the approved assumptions, there will be this real increase in research and universities in this country. And finally, why? So why is there a government agreement that establishes that the research GDP has to come to this 12... [[The president withdrew the use of the microphone to the deputy and she continued to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.29.0	Counselor, time is running out. [[Ask the Government about the policies of montanya]] [[310-00122/13]] He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on mountain policies. The question is posed by Mrs Sílvia Romero, Member of the Socialist and Units Parliamentary Group, to move forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.30.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Puignero. As you know, forty-six percent of Catalonia's territory is occupied by mountain areas. One_of_each_three municipalities is found in the mountain area, where we live 4.5_per_cent of the population. 1983 passed the High Mountain Law, a single, pioneering law designed to provide services and infrastructure to the regions, let's say, more impoverished and more difficult to develop. Many years ago, in 2011, this law was declared obsolete and overtaken by the General Council of Muntanya, which asked the Government of the Generality for its reformulation. Two years have passed since that time and, again, this question has remained within a _second term. Counselor, what is the capture of the Government of the Generality, in relation to the mountain law?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.31.0	To answer the word, Mr. Jordi Puigneró, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.32.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congresswoman. The government's grasp is to push this law into this legislature and, therefore, to update it, as you have said, very well; to update a law that is already too old, since the year 83, therefore, that has been absolutely obsolete.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.33.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member, Sílvia Romero, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.34.0	Counselor, in rural Europe only sixty per cent of households have access to broadband, and this is considered a serious problem in an economy that needs to be digitised. At Pallars, sixty per cent of the municipalities have no prediction of when the wide band will arrive. Counselor, we need new public policies of montanya to advance in territorial cohesion. We continue to have problems in infrastructure and services, unresolved problems, but new situations are emerging, new priorities, new opportunities, like green growth, like the same broad band, like the ecological transition. And what we find is that a country like Catalonia, which recognized the mountain many years ago and acted, as France did, also, in parallel with the mountain law, so we have remained stagnant. France, at these times, has a second mountain law, has territorial references in all ministries and does not approve any law without a declaration of territorial impact. We're standing back and we can't afford it. We're still reading the same classic account as ever and we need to write a new report, counselor, a new authentic and current one. They owe it to the people and they owe it to the territory. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.35.0	To answer, the words of the Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Digital Policies and Territories are given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.36.0	Well, thank you very much, Congresswoman. I can agree with many of the statements made by you concerning, of course, the importance that you and Pirinaeus must have for our country. I'm a... I'm a Pallars lover, I guess you should know, but that's obviously not relevant, huh? What is uplifting is what we can do like the government to push mountain policies into this legislature. Listen, my compromise, as I said here in the last legislature, is that the deployment of optical fiber, you talked about it, ends this legislature. And, therefore, it will see that in the very premise, if it is approved, and therefore it is the responsibility of all, there will be the economic resources because the optical fiber of the Generality arrives in all the municipalities of Pirinaeus and, therefore, it will be possible to realize that today is certainly one of the main tools for territorial balance to fix people to the territory and to give equal opportunities, that is to be connected. Being connected makes it possible, among other things, to develop teletreball, but it also allows the economy of that territory to have more possibilities, even more competent and, therefore, to compete in this globalized world. Tell him this government's gonna make a bet on other instruments, too, huh? For example, you will see how in your own assumption we will move from 3 to 5 million euros for what it does to the whole subject of rural mobility, so, to the arrangement of paths, which is also very important in these regions. Or, for example, you'll see how IDAPA, this economic promotion tool we have for the Pyrenees, so it'll have its biggest assumption that it's ever had in its history. Therefore, these are clear proofs that this is a government that bets for the territory, and from this advice we have done and will make territorial balance and resettlement its priority. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.37.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the protection policies of the Ebre Delta. [[Ask the Government about the protection policies of the Ebre Delta]] [[310-00123/13]] The question is posed by Mr Joaquim Paladella, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.38.0	Thank you very much, President. Welcome, counselor. Are you aware of the extreme vulnerability of the Ebre Delta? Are you worried about the consequences of a storm this winter?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.39.0	To answer, has the word Ms Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.40.0	Deputies, deputies, very good morning to you all. Deputy Paladella, look, you know how I hope... the Ebre Delta is a unique territory, a beautiful territory, but also fragile, and more in this context of full climate emergence. Here the solution is to go all in one, go all in the same direction. A servant spoke to the minister, talked to the minister. The answer we say seems to promise, but in any case, we must see it. We need to see what the ministry says and we need to see, too, the performance of Costs, of the Tarragona Cost Service.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.41.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr Joaquim Paladella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.42.0	Yes, he will advise, the extreme precariousness and crisis to which the delta is currently exposed are more than obvious. The consequences of a storm that could be... is very likely to produce this winter, huh? I mean, it's a lot of hard stuff. And it is to prevent this fact that the Government of the State drafted and presented to its department, on May 10, that the project that provides for the rehabilitation of 380,000 cubic metres of arenas, with the aim of strengthening the most sensitive parts of the delta and thus avoiding an affect that would clearly produce a storm that would not be very hot, that was very large, that..., only a medium storm; an action that has a presumption of 4_million euros and that the Government of the State would execute with the utmost urgency and immediate possible, with the aim of preventing the hard impact for two years, necessary to move forward the projects that must result from the drafting of the delta protection plan. It is a necessary, vital and urgent action that should be carried out without delay and with close cooperation and cooperation between public administrations that have competitions. Incomprehensibly, and incomprehensiblely, the performance has been halted by the demand for a simplified environmental impact statement on the part of its department, using its environmental powers in the management of the park and in the ZEPA area of the Natura 2000 Area, which we believe is not mandatory either for the volume or for the management of the park or for the Habitat Directive, and which makes it absolutely impossible for the performance to remain effective this winter, when the risk is expected to be greater. It's just logical and common sense. He will advise, we ask, we ask him: make an urgent decision and facilitate the execution of the action exempting the Government of the State from this petition for simplified environmental impact statement. It's all justified and it's reasonable and necessary. And at the same time it complements this reversal with a single project that reinforces the performance with the €6_million that still has its premise. It is absolutely necessary and extremely urgent that this action is done without delay or interbank. Otherwise, the consequences to the Delta and the people of the Delta can be dramatic. Counselor, please... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and he continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.43.0	To answer the words of the Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.44.0	Mr. Paladella, I will try to go very quickly, telegraphically, because many, many beasts have been said. Look, telegraphically, you will remember the 20th generation of the year 2020 that there was Glory, that it did nothing but tear down and swallow the Ebre Delta. And you know what? From that moment on, so, look, we're still waiting for the Delta Protection Plan that the PSOE government has compromised. I also explain to you that that same year, that same moment, the Department of Agriculture laid 1_million_i_mig euros to the Delta, basically, to modify and fix the network of Reg and Paths and also different structures that reinforced, in this case, as you well know, the bombing station of Pal. That said, Congressman... [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] You know, you've recognized it and we're still waiting. We continue to hope that the State, in the mark of its competitions, will act. Unfortunately, we are no one, unhappily, to authorize or to disauthorize; the competence to act on the plagiarism is exclusive to the Ministry and you know it perfectly. The Ministry is the promoter organ and is the substantial organ in this case; it proposes the performance, not only that it proposes it, but also that it authorizes it and, obviously, that it executes it. Because today the only proposal we have on the table, the only one, is that of the Ministry, which is to reciprocate five hundred meters from the coast; this is that of the Ministry. I'll tell you what ours is. Ours, in agreement with the territory, is not to move a centimeter, not just a centimeter. And, listen'm, up to three times, not one or two, up to three times the Tarragona Cost Service has poorly done the simplified environmental assessment report. Up to three times. At this moment – at this moment – this is in Madrid. Ends on the 18th, wait for the 19th to see the machines where they had to be. Also the information that from this council and from the government we have made ourselves available to do these works, to make this transfer of smiles and it could not be possible. And that the assumption of encany will be executed justly encany. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.45.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in the plenary on the measures taken to deal with the effects of the increase in gas and electricity prices. [[Asks the Government about the measures taken to address the effects of the increase in gas and electricity prices]] [[310-00114/13]] The question is posed by Mr Antonio Gallego of the Group of the European Parliament (VOX).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.46.0	Yeah. Good morning. Good morning. We face this winter with poverty rates at record levels, bloody wounds following last year's staggering fall in Catalan GDP, problems of depletion, companies closing through the breakdown of supply chains, out-of-pocket inflation, gas prices and cloud electricity. You don't have to be Churchill to sense that energy poverty in Catalonia is going to fire. Nor should we be an exquisite statesman to sense that the 24/2015 Law of energy poverty, and its scarce economic endowment, are not going to be enough to face this new and terrible scenario. That is why we are asking, will aid be increased to mitigate the effects of the spectacular rise in energy prices? If so, can you make them concrete? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.47.0	To answer the word, Mr. Roger Torrent, Business and Work Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.48.0	Thank you, President. Well, Congressman, it doesn't have to be Churchill to know that the competition in the electrical market is state and which regulates tariffs is state. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, which brings us to this oligopolistic system where three large groups control the eighty-five percent of the market and charge more than 5,000 million euros, is the Spanish State. In any case, we're still not a state. When we follow it we can regulate an electrical system more just and that I do not cover too much, but, meanwhile, what we do, effectively, is to protect those most vulnerable families, those who suffer the most from the increase in the bill for the light. And we do it through the government, through consumption, through social rights – in fact, we talk directly to the councillor – and we also do it legislatively here in the Parliament of Catalonia. Certainly, with laws that are systematically appealed to the Constitutional Court. Nor can Churchill be seen from Parliament, many times by unanimity, law in favour of the most vulnerable in electrical matters, and also systematically the Government of the State falls into these legislative initiations. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.49.0	To answer the question, the deputy Antonio Gallego has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.50.0	Yeah. Nor should we be Churchill to know that the Constitutional Court does not appeal anything as you have just said. Secondly, I already know that you always say the same thing, don't you? They always say, well, it's like you're telling me, like you're tall, shitty and handsome, so, you'd be a Hollywood actor. And then, anyway, the world would be different, but for now we have what we have. Really, do an exercise in realism and maturity. Anyway, I'm going back to energy, huh? They have not moved a finger for families to cover the thermal social bonus this year, it has been publicly believed that for you it is more important to see in Catalan Netflix than Catalans we can pay the bills of Endesa. The current budget allocation to tackle energy poverty is ridiculous: EUR 1.90 per inhabitant per year, including aid from the municipalities. Nor should we be Churchill to know that the Generalitat receives more than 200_million_of_euro each year as a result of the electricity tax. Nor should we be Churchill to know that, therefore, you are collecting this money and never dedicating it to energy poverty. Nor should we be Churchill to know that they have not moved a single finger to help families in this sense, but they have moved it, they have removed heaven and earth, to seek money to pay for the finances of the thugs or to finance the 240_millions of TV3. In short, Mr Councillor, we ask you to take the situation seriously. Things are not being done properly. Take the energy problem with importance because it is important and urgent. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.51.0	To answer the word has the company and work advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.52.0	Congressman, every time I look more worrying and worrying about his obsession with testosterone and muscle. [[Rialles.]] Continue as follows, listen: the Government of the Government of Catalonia during these months of pandemics, in which to add to the situation of difficulty those structural ones that we have already poured from before the arrival of the covid-19, is to say, those inequalities that were already installed and that generated brets to our society and that we cannot afford from a point of view, obviously from the point of view of social justice, but also from the point of view of economic competitiveness. And we acted, and then we acted, I insist, legislating from the Parliament of Catalonia and systematically the Constitutional Court dropped these laws. It does have the capacity to fall down the laws, unfortunately, which we approve – many of them unanimously in this Parliament. And we have, in fact, been helping the government, the territory in the Spanish State that has helped the most affected sectors; economic sectors, but also especially those families that, unfortunately, many months have to sort between paying for food or paying for the light. And that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what we're going to do, that's what [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.53.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in the plenary on sexual and reproductive rights policies. [[Ask the Government about sexual and reproductive rights policies]] [[310-00118/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Jenn Díaz, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.54.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, Counselor. A few days ago we heard that in Manresa, thanks to the struggle of the feminist movement of the companies of Action Lila and to the invisible work of many other people, they can already practice surgical abortions. More than a decade ago, the aneurysm has been decriminalized in Catalonia, but this decade has not been enough to guarantee this right in a universal and territorially equitable way. That is why we rejoice and celebrate that Central Catalonia has been conquered, again and with the work of a great many people, when the same law already claimed. We encourage the government to continue walking towards the full guarantee of the right to free, free and fair worship throughout the country. We are well aware, however, that the task of the Government must be to broaden the rights and, by collecting the proclamations of the Argentine pibas, the demand of the feminist movement is "sexual education to decide, contraceptive for not having to abort and legal abortion for not dying. That's why sexual and reproductive rights go, with a broader view of the rights of women and also of trans people. We started talking about a new right won with years of struggle in Manresa, but we know that the government's strategy respects sexual and reproductive rights and wants to go further. We want the right to abortion to be guaranteed fair from Catalonia, that the decision is taken free of charge and with all the necessary information. We want him to be respectful of all the lives, all the bodies and all the identities. We want it to be without the pressure of speech groups and the public. But we also want sex education at the schools – and I look at the education counselor –, we also want to promote menstrual hygiene products respectful of the environment and aiming at zero residue – and I look at the Climate Action counselor –, and we also want to talk about poor menstruals – and we can look at the social rights counselor or also the health counselor, because we can actually look at the whole government, because as always the feminist public policies are cross-cutting –. In short, counsel Verge, we want sexual and reproductive rights not to be up-to-date, missing or invisible. And we know that they're working and that it's one of the lines of action and we want you to talk about it. And as I am twenty-second, I would like to give all of our support to the minor raped equal and remind everyone that the details and the disease are out of all the recommendations to guarantee the right to the intimacy of sexual violence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.55.0	To answer, the word "Tània Verge" has the word "Igualty and Feminism".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.56.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We add as much to the call to the family of the murdered woman this week as to the minor to whom she refers, and to this call to the communication media to respect the right to privacy and the right to women. The next week we set aside the inter-departmental commission for the impulse and the follow-up of sexual and reproductive rights, integrated for new departments, many of which you have pointed out. This strategy addresses for the first time in Catalonia sexual and reproductive rights from the perspective of human rights, with special emphasis on women, children and trans people. The different lines of the strategy can be grouped into two blocks mainly. On one side, those in which we deepen or age for their effective guarantee, and start by right to education in sexuality in the framework of co-education to enhance the development of children and young people with autonomy and equality, to prevent sexual abuse to minors, to deepen the knowledge of their own and to break taboos, and to work consent. The right to the voluntary interruption of land-based embarrassment, also removing barriers linked to the administrative situation and combating the establishment of anti-droit groups. Also advance towards universal and free contraception, to overcome the difficulties posed by economic barriers. Also the improvement of access to assisted human reproduction techniques, the reinforcement of health services for trans people and the guarantee of the supply of hormonal treatments. Or territorial equity also in access to sexually transmitted infections prevention instruments and HIV lock up PrEP, and fight discrimination and stigma against people living with HIV. On the other hand, a new generation of sexual and reproductive rights, such as the right to menstrual equity, with an information campaign on economically and environmentally sustainable menstrual products with free distribution of these products in the proper months to women attending the specialized network of mascot rapes and, in this school year, in the educational centres. Vetllar also for the right of women to decide the type of part, in compliment of the standards that avoid obstetric violence, new measures in the labor field linked to menstruation in the climate driven through social concertation, and actions for the follow-up in the gestational and perinatal dol. Because we understand that sexual and reproductive rights are indispensable for feminist transformation, they are a key to ensuring fairness, the rights of LGBTI people and the fight against male violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.57.0	He asked the Government to answer orally in the plenary on the improvement of the working conditions and contracts of the Centre d'Atenção y Gestion de Trucades d'Urgència 112 Catalunya. [[Ask the Government about the improvement of the working conditions and contracts of the Centre d'Atenção y Gestion de Trucades d'Urgència 112 Catalunya]] [[310-00119/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carles Castillo, of the Grup Parlamentari d'Esquerra Republicana.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Counselor. As you well know, the 112 workers in the Reus centre and the Barcelona Free Zone have long been demanding better and fighting because they properly recognize their work. They want better in their working conditions, as well as in retruc and directly, in the public service they provide, which is absolutely essential and essential. In fact, they ask for a change in the management model and the dignification of the template, for this order, demonstrating that their main interest is citizenship and, as I say, the best of public service. Both the Republican Left Parliamentary Group of Catalonia and the first new director of the 112 service, Irene Fornos, have met on various occasions to speak with the representatives of the workers, and I believe that we are sincerely aligned in their cause. So we were able to get them to the various meetings that we had, but there were questions that did not depend on either the government or the decision of any public manager. It is true that a new tender had to be published quickly, without being able to start talks with the workers' representatives, as we had liked, and without almost any margin to warn. But this was so because of a regrettable situation that was given to the dealership and that no one could predict, as I say. Still, we have always tried to explain the reality of the situation that we found ourselves in and to note in the sense that we thought more favorable to the servant and to the workers and workers of this. With all due respect, counsel, with the importance that we all know that it has this public service of public attention of emergencies and with the dedication and effort that every day the workers and workers of the two existing centers, both in Reus and in the Free Zone of Barcelona, so as to keep the service in some standards of excellence, with the conviction that we want a service linked to the principle of public service and the common good that puts the emphasis above all on quality, we would like to know, to this group, who are the measures envisaged in order to improve the work situation of the workers and workers of 112, as the Government thought to guarantee the service and what it thinks around the proposal of internation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.59.0	To answer the word, Mr. Joan Ignasi Elena, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.60.0	President, deputy, deputies, deputies... Indeed, the situation of the 112 was delicate force in May, June, as a consequence of the failure of the company that carried the management, corrected, as you explained, had to be urgently awarded to another company because it is guaranteed the performance of the service. From here, we took three steps. One was, in the first place, to guarantee workers' wages, which, as a consequence of the company's failure, was not guaranteed. And, second and foremost, to entrust a new company, a new dealership, which continued to provide services, precisely for this reason, to guarantee a service that, as you said, is indeed a very and very essential service to ensure security and emergence in our country. Secondly, the drafting of a new application, a new tender to give the service's performance been enabled. And in this sense, we have incorporated nine measures that we believe are positive both for the service and, of course, for the workers. First of all, measures to penalize businesses in case they stop paying their wages, such as the month of April and May of Enguany. For other measures of support, support to the provision of the service, psychological, assistance and help, because it is a service of the first line and, therefore, very hard and with a lot of impact for the people who provide it. And, in the third place, a wage increase around the new per cent, which seems to us to be fair and which guarantees a much higher wage for workers and workers. And thirdly, there is also a question that seems very important to us, and that is to start the study of the internalization of the service, which seems to us to be a good decision. And, in this sense, we also offer participation in the business committee, in the representatives of the workers in this study, in this work, because we also believe that their participation can be very important. You said it: it's a very important, very important service; it's the trunk that connects events with the country's emergency and security services. In concrete terms, it is between seven and eight thousand day tricks; it is between seven and eight thousand day tricks of middle, a five-per-cent number of which are answered before two-seconds. Therefore, I want to take advantage to thank the workers and the workers for their work every day. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.61.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on residue policies. [[Ask the Government about residue policies]] [[310-00120/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Mònica Palacín, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left. Welcome back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, taking climate emergency seriously is an obligation of all. They know they're late. In order to cope with global warming and climate change, policies must be bold and address many intertwined areas: the energy transition to put fossil fuels on hold, a sustainable mobility model, avoid atmospheric contamination, age for the water cycle and, to a good extent, the proper reduction and management of waste is key. It's not viable for all the remains to pass through an amplified canonate end. If we limit the management of the residue only to the destruction process, we do not reduce the consumption at source, but we open the fence, at last, to increase its volume. Cremating directly, as they do some valorization plants, or gasifying residues, as proposed to the plant of June, is not in any case a solution of nothing, on the contrary. That is why what is a change in the management of waste, is to say, prioritise prevention, recovery, recycling of materials. And I'm sure we'll do that with the new law. In fact, while we do not have this law, this Parliament approved a moratorium on our waste incineration projects. He did it twice: to a motion and to the conclusion of the Climate Emergency Commission. The Department of Territories said a year ago that this moratorium was not possible. We need the moratorium and, above all, we need the waste law, so that we can set environmental criteria for inverse projects, such as that of the industrial incinerator of Cercs, which has come across urbanistically, but with no environmental legislation. I can't be. Now, with the connivance of the municipal government, this project is again a threat to the territory. Some groups are in constant coordination with environmental entities, to whom I thank here the task and perseverance to put aside the incineration of residues and to work on an ambitious law and a plan of reduction and closure of incinerators, mouthpieces and energy valorization plants. Counselor, what planning does your department have in the best urgency and managed prevention and managed waste as key tool to cope with climate change? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.63.0	To answer the word Teresa Jordà, Climate Action Advisor, Food and Rural Agenda.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.64.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... happy to see you again in full, in full action. As a matter of fact, the environmental cost of residual treatment is worrying, as it could not otherwise be... [[For technical reasons, a few words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] ... of the country; its emissions of greenhouse gases, in fact, assuming the six percent of the country's global emissions, and if we're talking about incinerators, we'd be talking about '1,4_per_cent. We're concerned, but we're mostly concerned, aren't we? I think this is the most important thing. And that's why today and from here also in your parliament I want to announce that from the Department of Climate Action, Food and Rural Agenda a moratorium of waste incineration infrastructure will last. And that, summed up in three very key points, would be that there would be no new ones, obviously that the existing ones would not expand and realize a plan of closure and dismantling of those that already existed. So did you, huh? , and I like to do so today in your Parliament, because it is all in response to a motion from the People's Union Candidate on Climate Emergency and New Waste Incineration Projects that was approved on March 2020 and that textually – I read – said: "Establish urgently a moratorium on new urban and industrial waste incineration projects using the legislative instrument that you consider relevant. So, I've already come to the point that this government is going to give compliments to this young man, the 159/XII, who simply does nothing but give compliments, as is to be done, to the young man. And say that this council would also take this issue and seek legal and legal formulas to do so. Actually, we'll do it with the measuring bill. And lastly, as you have done, I can't end up without thanking all the ecological entities in this country for the pressure they have put on, but also the work done in a long time, with a constant time, so, long years, working because the country is moving towards zero residue. Thanks, therefore, to ZEPA; thanks also to the Ecologists Federation of Catalonia; thanks to the citizen platform Residu Zero, which groups entities and platforms that fight every day to get this tape. In fact, this government also requires... [[For technical reasons, a few words of the Council's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...and this is the intention of this department and also the government: to walk towards zero residue. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.65.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the call to the citizen. [[Ask the Government about the call to the citizens]] [[310-00116/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Eulàlia Reguant on behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Who are the actions that led to the completion of their department and who do you intend to do in front of the indefinite vacancy of the workers and workers of the 061?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.67.0	To answer, has the word the Lord Josep Maria Argimon, councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.68.0	Good morning, President. MP, in principle, 061 Salutation Response is an essential public service that is managed by the Medical Emergencies Service in charge of the Health Department and that has as its mission to provide quality care in such a key and sensitive environment as salvation. We, in this sense, are absolutely open..., at these moments we know that it is a debate between the enterprise and the workers, but we are absolutely open, as it cannot be in any other way, and as it is a public enterprise, first of all, to mediate in all this debate and also to take into account all the possibilities that exist around 061 as a service, that is, with a service such as we have today or a service, as we have also begun to see in the previous questions of 112..., to start studying internalization.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.69.0	To answer that question, the honourable Member, Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, will put it to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.70.0	Well, counselor, if they're open, I'll remind you that the workers are out here waiting for you to come out, that since June they've called for a meeting with you and your councillor, before they call the vacancy, and that there's no response from the councillor for the moment. So, if they're open to mediating, they can go outside and talk to the workers, who will be happy to give them all the documents they bring to you. But beyond that, the Emergence Service is a highly outsourced service, that is, the emergence service is outsourced. And before the debate that is on the table – which I would tell Mr. Castillo that it is not that the workers of 112 are asking for a change of management, they are asking for internalisation, the same as the workers of 061 – I would also remind him, counselor, that it is not dealt with as long as they are open to study but that this Parliament, in July, approved the internalisation of 061 and also of health transport, which we will be talking about this late. But, before some statements and some elements that are on the table around the 061 internalization debate, we wanted to put some alerts on the table. It is not possible to separate the teleoperation service – telephonic attention with closed protocols – from the management services, which would be that service with added health value of donating the high to My Greeting, organ donation, health card, ambulance resource activation or transplants, because it cannot be separated as if the teleoperation service was not a health service. And it's just... some elements to ratify that statement. It is a service – the service of 061 – in which each enabler relies directly from the previous, therefore, one has been connected to the other, each of the tasks has been connected to the previous and the next. It works with a very complicated chain of effectively unlinking, so you can't unlink operators of managers. All the workers are finished with multipurpose managers, some days they perform some functions and others they perform another. And if you don't, we can go outside and talk to the outside workers, who will be happy to explain to them what you've said about teleoperators and other days about managers. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.71.0	Time's up, Congresswoman. To answer that, there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.72.0	Deputy, two questions. The first, the interview with 061..., is the SEM, it is the SEM that has the service of 061. The second element – and you have already given the answer keys – is that sometimes when we think about 061, we think about teleoperation. 061 is much more than teleoperation, much more – and you explained it. From this point of view, when a service comes in, this service may be a demand for an urgent service, which goes to the table of reviews, which is the SEM's own, or it may be a service asking for a nursing or medical consultation, which is a service close to the SEM; it may be that a pediatric or pediatric counselling service, which is close to the SEM, is required. And so we could continue, like the oncology service or the one we'd usually put on the suicide phone. I absolutely agree with you that this is all a system and that, obviously, if there is no teleoperation, the service will not finally arrive in the table, for example, of reviews or where it is. This was taught to me from the first day I entered the residence: a hospital opens up because someone cleans it up every morning; otherwise, it doesn't. That's very clear to me. But what we don't have to do is never match 061 just to teleoperation. And teleoperation, I repeat, is very important. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.73.0	He asked the Government to respond orally in full on policies to eradicate denigrating stereotypes towards women. [[Ask the Government about policies to eradicate denigrating stereotypes towards the woman]] [[310-00115/13]] The question is raised, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, by Mrs Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.74.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mrs. Verge, during Mr. Aragonès' investiture speech, we heard you talk about how feminist your government was going to be, and, in fact, a new department of feminism has been created of which you are a counselor. And I don't know if it happens to me, but to me, as a woman, it deeply annoys me that a man uses the feminist cause in his own interest and that, in addition, he uses a woman for it. And it seems to me a lack of respect that Mr Aragonès came here to make himself the superfeminist, speaking even of menstrual poverty, but that he then silenced with that lame gag of Peyu and Jair Domínguez; a supposed joke that is retrograde, that is macho and that is disgusting, because it not only puts the woman back as a mere sexual object, but also fantasizes that a minor will culminate in her sexual desires. A minor, counselor, I don't care what her last name is. She's underage and that has a name: she's a pedophile advocate and she's nauseous, counselor. Look, that gag didn't get to broadcast if it looks to me like it's the least. First, because we've all been able to see it on social media. Secondly, because we have seen with genuine amazement how some tried to justify it, members of this chamber, some even ex-advisors of the Government. And third, I insist, by that atronating silence of the so-called feminist president. As I said before, there is nothing that bothers me more than the use of feminism as a pure postureum; there is nothing that bothers me more than the hypocrisy of those who see a scandalous pipe on the street, but it seems to them the sea of funny a sexist gag on TV3; there is nothing that bothers me more than that asymmetric feminism that puts its hands on the head when it turns out that the injured one is one of theirs, but that silences and even makes fun of it when the offended are the others; that asymmetric feminism, by the way, which protects the machoists, but which punishes and vetoes a journalist who is simply dedicated to repeating that supposed gag; look, that asymmetric feminism that also points to the speeches of others as harmful, but that has the machoism installed on TV3 making content for young people. You today, counselor, have two options: you can ask for the cancellation of Bricoheroes, which makes sexist gags and retrogrades, demonstrating the usefulness of your department, or you can continue with bleaching, play to point to others and... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.75.0	To answer, has the word "Tània Verge", councillor of Igualtat and Feminismes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.76.0	Thank you, President. Member, speaking of posture, when I read the title of the question I thought: "We hope that the concern shown by the PP for the rights of women is not spurious. Why your party systematically resorts to equality laws and against male violence in the Constitutional Court; why... [[applause]] , because there where they govern systematically detail resources dedicated to policies of equality and against male violence and because Congresswoman Parera, on the last day of plenary, from the Faristol, said that male violence is a more form of violence and titrated the bodies of equality and specialized entities of political lobbying. I mean, they're exactly the same negationist speech as the deputies who are sitting in the front row. What I just didn't hear, and it also seems like a lot of posture, is that TV3's performance in this case, which has been on the line of guaranteeing the rights of women and not getting that gag in question, also annoying them. They will have to explain whether their position is genuine or simply instrumental. If you ask what the government will do to eradicate the denigrating stereotypes towards the woman, which was in the title of the question, then different measures. On the one hand, strengthen the sanctioning regime of the law of effective equality of women and men, precisely in order to have greater sanctioning capacity. On the other hand, it also strengthens the sanctioning capacity of the ACC in the audiovisual law, which is the organ that oversees the control of audiovisual media; expands the content of equality in the educational sphere, in the framework of co-education, to review the school curriculum, and also strengthens the assessments that are made on how to incorporate the perspective of gender in the academic sphere, because we are talking about future professionals of many fields; it also strengthens the activities of the Catalan Institute of Donations in the field of sexist advertising and the ability to remove these announcements, and, finally, implements a national strategy of awareness not only to combat these attitudes or stereotypes but also to eliminate the masculine and masculine causes of discrimination. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.77.0	He asked the Government to reply orally in full on the situation of businesses. [[Ask the Government about the business situation]] [[310-00117/13]] The question is posed by Mr Nacho Martín Blanco, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.78.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. As you see, as a Business and Knowledge Advisor, the fact that the flight of entrepreneurs from our community to other autonomous communities in Spain, which began late in 2017, is not only stopped, but that it was precisely this year 2021, and that it has already amounted to 7,745 businesses, of which about four thousand have gone to the Community of Madrid?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.79.0	To answer, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, Counsellor of Enterprise and Work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.80.0	Effectively – thank you, President –, Business and Work, eh? ; Enterprise and Coneixement was the last legislature. I think you're noticing from the past legislature, and probably from here on out. [[Some applause.]] Congressman, keep going... despite the fact that he's been with them the way he's been with them, he's still with the same old rhetoric, isn't he? One time and another. More than that, by taking on a few data that can never be explained, that they never analyze, that they never go to the fund, but only serve them superficially to feed a speech that is totally false. Miri, from the 1st generation of 2017 until today has been created twenty-and-a-thousand enterprises more in Catalonia, there have been twenty-and-a-thousand enterprises more in these moments in our country than the 1st generation of 2017. Anyway, do you know what generates instability and mistrust? A repressive response to a conflict that is of natural political nature. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.81.0	To answer the question, Mr. Nacho Martín Blanco has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.82.0	Yes, Mr Torrent, as it was predictable you have dedicated yourself to playing the violin and, like the Titanic orchestra, they continue to say that nothing happens here, as long as the Catalan economy sinks precisely as a result of its policies. Look, my question was actually going to be another one and I thought that being respectful to you and not discrediting your own knowledge would change it, and my question was going to go on about the following. Do you know what the Montreal effect is, Mr. Torrent? Well, look, I'll explain it to you, without indoctrination. The Montreal effect is what political and economic theory has described of what happened in Quebec during the 1970s and 1980s with the secessionist drift of the Parti Québécois, with two referendums, in the year 80 and in the year 95, that caused a flight of massive Quebec companies, a flight of human capital, a flight of financial capital that led to an immense decadence of Quebec, which was the first province of Canada in the 1970s and which has now become a province far below its competitors. In this regard, I recall a BBC report in which a teacher from a school, from the Rotman School, Toronto – a prestigious Canadian school, the Toronto Rotman –, Mr. Joe Martin, said that throughout the 20th century there had been no case between two cities where one city would have given a gift as great to another as Montreal to Toronto, in terms of human and financial capital. That's in the 20th century. Well, Mr Torrent, I regret to say to you that throughout the 21st century there has never been a case of two cities in which a city like Barcelona has given you a greater gift, in terms of human, financial and cultural capital, such as the one that the city of Barcelona has given to Madrid, because of its rupturist policies, because of its identity policies, because of the fiscal hell that you have created in Catalonia. That's what I as a Catalan citizen regret. As a Spanish citizen, I welcome the prosperity of my country's capital, but as a Barcelonan and as a Catalan I say that I am indignant, it seems absolutely unacceptable to me the decline and decline that you have caused to the Catalan economy and that you continue to say that nothing is happening here. Thank you, Mr. Torrent. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.83.0	To answer, the word "Consulter d'Empresa i Treball" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.84.0	Since he likes to talk about Canada, and Quebec and Montreal, you know it's the democratic principle, right? [[Rialles.]] The democratic principle is the absolutely democratic response not only of the Canadian institutions, but of the Supreme Court of Canada, which goes to say that a political conflict cannot be resolved with clutter, but through the ballot box. In any case, through dialogue and political negotiation. This is the doctrine of Canada. As long as he's looking up to Canada to see if he's in love with something else, too. I listened, in any case, to the companies of the system finance – their social, eh? , by the way – they left, precisely they did not go to Madrid, they went to Valencia. And if what you want is to compare us to Madrid, let's talk about ciphers, guany ciphers. Madrid, the capital of freedom, respects Barcelona, respects Catalonia. How can the capital of freedom, where you were part of the government, have generated less business than Catalonia, there is more to it than Catalonia, and if we talk about businesses, there are fewer businesses that have been generated in Catalonia? It must be that responsible attitude, consistent attitude from a health, economic and social point of view... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the Business and Work Councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.85.0	Time's up, counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the levying of the tax on carbon dioxide emissions from vehicles]] [[317-00065/13]] Let's start the question block to the President of the Generality. He asked the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on the political situation. The question is raised by Mr Alejandro Fernández of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.86.0	Thank you, President. How do you appreciate that the Catalan Tax Agency is charging CO2 tax for cars that were laid off ten years ago, among other multiple errors that have come to light? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.87.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.88.0	We welcome the fact that this week, which began the Summit for Climate Catalonia, coincided with a tax on CO2 emissions from vehicles and, therefore, we are at the forefront of green taxation in Europe. And, in any case, the standard problems, derived from the fact that the data are originating from the Spanish Tax Agency, and that's where the errors are, no problem, it's been corrected on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.89.0	To answer the question, has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.90.0	Mr Aragonès, the CO2 tax on vehicles is a real shame. Your Government has decided to punish not the one who pollutes the most but the least, because who is going to pay that tax? It will be paid by Catalan workers who cannot afford to buy tomorrow an electric car – they have enough to arrive at the end of the month. They will pay for this in rural areas, where pollution is minimal, but where farmers and farmers cannot afford the exquisiteness of their government's ecopijas. And it will be paid by the humblest self-employed carriers, those of the lifetime van that is indeed old, the van, and do you know why it is old? , because you can't buy a new one, and unless you want to do the bike delivery and playing the traverse flute, you need the van to live. If that were not enough, in addition to the confiscatory voraciousness that characterizes them, you have proved yourselves to be genuine incompetent. The Catalan Tax Agency is charging the tax on cars that were laid off ten years ago and there has even been some case of a stolen car in 1999. In short, he said that this tax is a real shame. It does not come to the immorality of when you decided to raise the inheritance tax in full pandemic with thousands of dead, but almost, because to raise this tax with inflation to 5 and a half, light and gas by the clouds, the gasoline fired, is simply indecent, it is an attack on the flotation line of the most humble families and with less resources of Catalonia. Consequently, Mr Aragonès, remove the CO2 tax immediately, if it can be today, better than tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.91.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.92.0	No, we won't delete it. We won't delete it. Because this tax is intended for specific purposes in the field of the Climate Fund and the Natural Heritage Fund, which must allow a good part of the fight against climate change policies in Catalonia to be financed. You have become tax negators of climate change, and I already know that you believe that even to distinguish, therefore, between urban or rural areas as a function of more contaminated areas or less when all gases have ended up in the same atmosphere; it is to say, I know that for you, therefore, the borders are very important, but, listen to me, the emission of gases does not understand borders, like other things. Therefore, it is important to take the fight against climate change seriously. It's absolutely important. And that's why we need to put in mechanisms. Mechanisms which we must serve, also, to change everything that the country's car park has to be, and, therefore, for this very reason we have launched these last weeks aid destined for the purchase of electric vehicle, in the framework of the deployment of the Moves III platform. We'll keep doing the coming year, because our commitment is absolutely with the renovation of the mobile park. 37_percent of the emissions of greenhouse gases in our country come precisely from road transport. Therefore, it is absolutely essential to do two actions. One, the decarbonization of mobility, and for this reason the proper assumptions will incorporate an increment in the field of public transport. Two, the change in the mobile park, and, therefore, move towards a much more electrified mobile park. And if you suffer so much for the self-employed and for the alien workers who have to finance their van, you will not have carried out labor reforms that have led to the recovery of the economic crisis over the past few years based on the scale of real wages, reducing wages and only increasing the benefits of large enterprises. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.93.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the erosion and discredit of the authority of the Squadron Mosses]] [[317-00068/13]] The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, Member of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.94.0	Mr President, the police unions of the Mossos d'Esquadra have recently denounced what they called their government's servility before the CUP and remain a currency of exchange between parties. Do you believe, like most of the Mossos unions, that the police force is indeed a currency of change in its pact with the CUP?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.95.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.96.0	No, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.97.0	To answer, you have for the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.98.0	Well, Mr. Aragonès, the movement is proving to be moving. And this very afternoon a commission will be set up in Parliament to publicly stone the police. A committee which will also be chaired by the CUP. On the same day that your party is going to vote that not to investigate how the pandemic was managed in the residences, it will vote yes to the commission to put the Mossos at the mercy of the CUP. Look, last October 23rd we were some of us at the demonstration called by the police unions in Sant Jaume Square. And they told me their terrible working conditions, their concern at their authority eroded by their own government, the frustration of facing crime without sufficient resources... and, only on this bridge of All Saints, the Mossos have arrested thirty-seven people, most of them multi-recidence thieves for violent crimes. And today too – and I want to refer to this – we have heard the news of a new multiple rape in Igualada, of a 16-year-old girl who is in the ICU. I wish for your prompt recovery, and for the Mossos to find the culprits. And the urgency, Mr President, is not to disarm the Mossos in front of the incivics or in front of the criminals. The urgency is to provide them with sufficient means to protect the freedom of citizens who are concerned about the increase in citizen insecurity. It's good that in Catalonia, assaulting a police officer comes out for free or even takes a prize, because they put you on a tertullian in Catalonia Ràdio; that erodes and discourages the police, the same police that must protect freedom, investigate crimes and prevent them by patrolling. I, Mr Aragonès, ask you to stop eroding the Mossos and their authority, and to put them in the fork on commissions like the one you want to set up today. And, in short, let them let them work, prioritizing the struggle of insecurity in so many neighborhoods of Catalunya, Barcelona, Santa Coloma or even Igualada. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.99.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.100.0	Jo, what I'm asking you is that I stopped using the Mossos in a partisan way, Mr. Carrizosa. That's enough. Miri, the one who needs the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the rest of the police in Catalonia, the local police, is an increase in the number of effectives. And we are bringing to an end the increase in the number of more important effects of the later decade. Not only the four hundred Mossos d'Esquadra who, therefore, graduated last September from the Institute of Public Security in Catalonia, but the seven hundred who took part in this course. Also improving the provision of material resources and therefore the renewal of the mobile park, a good part also of the instrument and even of the uniform, which, therefore, also needs to be updated. About working conditions. The Mossos d'Esquadra cannot retire in fifty-nine years as does the National Police, Guardia Civil and Ertzaintza. And, therefore, this will be one of the complaints that will be raised, so that it will also be included in the draft general assumptions of the State for encany. And, therefore, it's a demand from the unions, this government, the councillor, and what I obviously do as president. I, finally, Mr. Carrizosa. It is the Parliament that has the legitimacy to do so, and as the President of the Generality and therefore as the representative of the Government, it respects the division of powers, and, therefore, it is the Parliament that decides to put this commission on the market. Sounds good to me. It is a study committee and the conclusions will be adopted by the majority. Nothing goes on to study, so, what is the public order model, in which it can be improved. And I want to remind you that decisions will be taken by the majority of Parliament, as it cannot be in any other way. And you... you seem to be very upset about it, so, anyway... the presidency has another group that isn't hers, but does she know what's going on? This group took more votes than you in the elections, and so democracy works. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.101.0	He asked the President of the General Council to give an oral reply in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the negotiation of assumptions in the areas of state, autonomous and municipal with maximum support]] [[317-00072/13]] The question is posed by Mrs.Jessica Albiach, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari d'En Comú Puem.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.102.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. President, today I also want to address you to most parliamentary groups in this chamber. Look, we're close to negotiating assumptions all over the country, in the state, in Catalonia, and also in all the municipalities of Catalonia, where the vast majority of us are here, so we have governance responsibilities. And, besides, it's a negotiation, this assumption, that she's a woman in a scene when we're just starting to rise from the pandemic crisis. And so, now more than ever, the assumptions cannot be a party machine, they must be a lever of change for the ecological transition, for the democratic deepening and also for the armoring of public services. In this sense, I would like to state that it is good news that Esquerra Republicana has not presented a statement to the totality of the best general assumptions of the State for Catalonia in a decade. [[Widow's remorse.]] The truth is, I find it a responsible decision, unlike the decision their partners made. But we can't stay here. We need to keep moving forward, we need to change the economic paradigm, and we also need to change the political paradigm, and that's what I mean by less embarrassment and more negotiation. What he means is that Catalonia deserves to enter a virtuous circle, that it deserves to start passing things, that we begin to move forward, that we begin to work in this future and that the first expanding assumptions that arrive in so many years arrive until the last race of Catalonia. And that's why, President, today's proposal is very simple, but it's also very cumbersome, and it's that we commit all of us here to making assumptions, to making assumptions in Catalonia, in the State and up to the last municipalities of Catalonia. What I'm proposing is that we do a high-level political exercise and also that we keep the accounts all the way with the greatest support of the last decade. This is our proposal, and we would like to know, President, what you think. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.103.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.104.0	The assumptions are important, but above all important to do what? With these assumptions. And I presented myself to the investiture, therefore, clearly compromised with four transformations: a social transformation, which passes through the strengthening of public services and, obviously, in the current context also for the better of the productive economy; with a transformation into a feminist claus and, therefore, to break the glass press and fight against patriarchy from public policies; a green transformation in the struggle against climate change, which obviously requires updated public accounts, and a democratic transformation with the will to resolve the political conflict with the State. At that time I extended my hand to support this transformation agenda. You, free... And I did, and I did it pretty intensely, in the investment debates. I'm not getting out. You decided, therefore, that you were opting for another criterion. So it was their responsibility and, therefore, they correspond to you explain yourself. We will present the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia this November. The Government on 9 November therefore plans to approve the assumptions for the meeting of the Executive Board. We will bring them here to implement these four transformations; to implement the investment programme, which was supported by the parliamentary groups of the CUP, Junts and Esquerra Republicana, and, therefore, call on these groups to donate to it. And, obviously, if they are such good assumptions that they are supported by other groups in the chamber, welcome, but the priority also has to be to consolidate this investment program, because they will actually be assumptions in transformative key. And respect the assumptions of the State, the expanding character is also seen in the execution. And here it is very important that there are guarantee clauses of compliment of the presuppositional execution, that in the later years and in the months that we carry of 2021 there are important deficiencies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.105.0	To answer the question, Ms. Jessica Albiach has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.106.0	Thank you, President. I would say that you did not respond to my proposal, but I did notice some resentment over the investiture. I think it's good that we look at the future, and I also think it's very good that the President of the Generality doesn't have a tunnel view, that he thinks of the whole picture, and above all that we have a lot of it present—very present—that what we're doing now will define what Catalonia is in our own years, that we're in an exceptional situation and that, therefore, what it requires is that we're up to this exceptionality with our actions. I do not know how the rest of the parliamentary groups will take up the proposal that I have made. What I can assure you is that, for what it does to us, it always... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.107.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.108.0	So, as I said, the week we're going to take the assumptions to the chamber and have the opportunity to talk about it, to improve the aspects that are needed. Because, as I was saying, what's important is what the assumptions are for. They're not the same as assumptions in one direction that's not in another. These are supposed to be transformational assumptions. The Government will make the proposal and it will be up to the group to assess whether or not they address the totality and if they finally support it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.109.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about agreements and negotiations at the Congress of Deputies for approval of state assumptions]] [[317-00067/13]] The question is posed by Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater, Member of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle to Win.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.110.0	Yes, thank you very much. President, doesn't it seem to you that the PSOE's presuppositions for 2022, the presuppositions of the State, on the basis of the defaults of the 2021 presuppositions, are being negotiated with the PSOE?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.111.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.112.0	The Government of the Government of Catalonia is not a parliamentary group of the Congress of Deputies. The assumptions that we negotiate are the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia and, in any case, respect what the parliamentary groups make at the Congress of Deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.113.0	To answer the question, the honourable Member Maria Dolors Sabater has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.114.0	President, if what he agrees isn't complete, what's the point? And it is clear that the negotiation of the State's presupposition has direct repercussions on what happens here in Catalonia. We're talking about deals like inversions and transfers that increased to 2,339.5_million euros pacts, a thirteen_per_cent compliment, and no supervision. We do not have or manage the vital minimum income or the European funds; we do not have to roll; we do not have the management capacity of the Consortium of the Free Zone, which does and does..., of course, which is about to make a climate disturbance in Mollet – from here all the support for the struggle for Calderí –; all this was in the pressure agreements and nothing has been completed. And I no longer want to say that we are unable to speak of self-determination in the dialog table when the 2020 agreement said that we could talk about everything. Really, President, don't you think that the Catalan people deserve us to have the political pes to Congress play in favor of the rights and the better of life and not this game of promises and deception that ends up being an authentic mockery? You tell me that the government is not negotiating the assumptions, but the government is formed by some parties, and these parties have a thing for Congress, and these parties negotiate because things happen here in the country. And, therefore, I do not escape this question, because I think the people of Catalonia deserve a more dignified answer. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.115.0	To answer the words of the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.116.0	This is a session of control of the President of the Generalitat, it is not a session of control of the thirteen deputies of the Republican Left of Catalonia to the Congress of Deputies which, of course, was the winning force of the general elections of the year 2019 and which, on the basis of its electoral programme, brought to an end the agreements it considered appropriate. From the general assumptions of the State, what is relevant to the Government of Catalonia? First place, enforcement guarantee. And I've done nothing before, and I think that's absolutely relevancy. You have referred to some percentages of execution starting from the first half of the year, from the thirteen per cent of investments, which is extremely low. You'll need to see how this evolves and the data that you'll know about, because we'll gather the Bilateral Commission in the field of Infrastructures to follow it up. But it is obvious that we need mechanisms and guarantees to enforce that assumption. It is also absolutely important that the extraordinary entries – which have been referred to before – to deal with the consequences on the Generality's assumption caused by the covid's pandemic is to find the instruments to guarantee its continuity. I believe that it is absolutely essential to be able to provide what are the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, responsible for health policies, therefore, with sufficient resources in this area, which is absolutely relevant. And in any case, I understand by your words that you bet by the way of being able to negotiate some assumptions, because it imposes some demands..., some general assumptions of the State. This is a novelty that you've been up until now, so you didn't put it on the table. But in any case, at the negotiating table on the political conflict the Government of Catalonia has defended the right to self-determination and amnesty, and we will continue to defend it, because we believe that it is a political resolution of the conflict that gives answer to the questions of foundations. And it is that this country must be able to decide freely and recognize its future and end all repression. And that, before some pardons that are obviously insufficient, only ended with an amnesty law. And we expect to count on these two aspects with your support. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.117.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the objectives of the approval of the Code of Ethics of the public service of Catalonia]] [[317-00066/13]] The question is posed by Mr Ignacio Garriga of the VOX Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.118.0	Mr Aragonès, what is the aim of adopting and approving the Code of Ethics for Public Service in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.119.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.120.0	Acting ethically, as your name says.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.121.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Ignacio Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.122.0	Look, the approval of the evil so-called Code of Ethics of Public Service in Catalonia is nothing more than a new move to hide the reality of its government. They want to protect their own, Mr Aragonès, and everything within the framework of the vicious agenda 20-30 with the main objective of hiding cases of corruption in the separatist ranks. Because you always act the same. They use sounding words, common goals, big slogans, but their real goal is no other than to impose their ideology, their disruptive project, perpetuate institutionalized corruption and allow those who have delinquent to get away with it. They launch an ethical code and at the same time negotiate to reform the Catalan Parliament code to shield and protect Mrs Borràs, accused of corruption. They keep four counselors in pending cases with justice for disobedience or misappropriation. They protect the university councillor who accuses "Nazis who choose to be able to take the exam in Spanish and who allow campaigns to be launched in university centers to point out and persecute teachers who use Spanish. What kind of ethics will you give us? They act as on TV3, where years ago they implemented an ethical code that validates the humiliations to a teenager – to Infanta Leonor – to which Mr. Sanchis, the Feminism counselor and the feminist president look elsewhere. What a shame. That is your true code of ethics, Mr Aragonès: to allow all Spaniards to be insulted, to trample our symbols, to manipulate our history and to insult all the generations that preceded us. Mr. Aragonès, you have neither code nor ethics. Leads the worst autonomous government, the most corrupt of all Spain and the most expensive. But the reality is that, in recent years, led by separatism, that exaltation in the institutional sphere is nothing but growth in political spending and in the appointment of high-ranking officials; in recent years an increase of fifty_per_cent, Mr Aragonès. And all that at the expense of ordinary Catalans. In short, once again, Mr Aragonès, you protected and the Catalans absolutely abandoned. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.123.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.124.0	You exceed my ability to surprise each Ple. There were things that we used to have, now the 20-30 U.N. agenda is qualified as the bad 20-30 agenda. So I'll give him a first, because maybe you don't remember that a few seconds ago he remembered that the Earth isn't flat. Mr. Garriga, the Earth is not flat. And yet he's moving. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.125.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the creation of a commission to quantify the State's shortcomings in the implementation of the assumptions for Catalonia and the deficits in investments and infrastructure]] [[317-00071/13]] The question is posed by Mr Albert Batet of the Junts per Catalunya Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable Presidents, members of the Government, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Deputies... In full negotiations of assumptions here in Catalonia and the State, Together for Catalonia we have the duty to denounce a situation that is endemic and unsustainable. The Spanish State asphyxiates Catalonia economically. For a band, with a fiscal deficit that already exceeds 18,000_million euros, that does not allow us to elaborate the assumptions, the Generality, that we could, that we would want and that we would need. And, on the other hand, with state assumptions that are clearly insufficient and that maintain the Spanish government's hardships with Catalonia. For example, in the last two years, in the last decade, Catalonia only accounts for the twelve_per_cent of investments, when we represent the seven_per_cent of the population and the ten_per_cent of GDP. The degree of implementation of State assumptions in infrastructure in the last decade is less than seventy-four_per_cent of implementation, and economic agents place the infrastructure deficit at EUR 28,000_million. The reality is hard, and that is why independence must take full advantage of it to demand and obtain the resources that Catalonia generates and that Catalans and Catalans deserve. We can't lose more opportunities, President. For this reason, Together for Catalonia we are proposing the creation of a committee to study in Parliament on the historical debt of the State to Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is necessary to quantify incompliments, actions and steps, black on white, light and tachographs, with total clarity and transparency. They are too many years of an unjust and unsustainable situation, because the historical debt with Catalonia, of the State with Catalonia, is a debt with the welfare, with the progress and with the opportunities of Catalans and Catalans. In this sense, President, we would like to know your opinion on the need to create this commission and the economic asphyxiation that the State applies to Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.127.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.128.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of Parliament, the chronic reversal deficit of the State in Catalonia is a sum..., and it is an indispensable part of this fiscal deficit that has invariably spilled between the eighth and the new per cent of GDP since the last decades has remained unchanged. In fact, it seems that the law of gravity and the eighth_per_cent of the tax deficit on our GDP is of the unalterable laws that are maintained in later years. So, quantify it, put it black on white, did the Department of Economics. In fact, many years ago this is part of the denunciation of political Catalanism, since 1896 in which Geographer Flos and Calcat already denounced this in his book of Geography of Catalonia, passing through economists of the thirties like Miquel Alzina, to Trias Fargas and, recently, therefore, the Department of Economics. In the later years, the fiscal balances of the year 2005 and all that went on to elaborate later on are a good show. So, the quantification is there. If this is to be the subject of parliamentary debate, then they will find all my complicity to be so. And from here, from finding the deficiency, the question is: what do we do? And I am aware that the best assumption that Catalonia will ever have is not the assumption of the Catalonian Government of the year 2022– which will be good–, they are not the general assumptions of the State of the year 2022, but the best assumptions that Catalonia could have, obviously, are those of an independent state. Therefore, building this majority that makes the independence of Catalonia inevitable is absolutely necessary. Working for the recognition of the exercise of the right to self-determination preceded by an amnesty, as we are doing and as it is a broad consensus in independence, but also working because the instruments that are being discussed at these times are better at the most and guarantees of compliments. And in this sense, as I have had the opportunity before I say, so it is likely that the Infrastructure Commission envisaged in the framework of the bilateral State-General Commissions will meet to assess its compliment and, obviously, the Government, which will be represented, among others, by the Vice-President, we will claim what this is necessary to carry out the investments sufficiently to Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.129.0	He asked the President of the General Council to answer orally in plenary on the latest political developments. [[Question to the President of the Generality on measures to promote and promote the social use of Catalonia]] [[317-00069/13]] The question is posed by the deputy Josep Maria Jové, of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.130.0	Thank you, President. President, the social use of català is in an increasingly worrying situation. The indicators tell us that we find ourselves on top of those normalization goals, knowledge, and use that we marked a few decades ago. It's a reality that's clear enough in the street, in the school, in the media. It's an obvious linguistic emergence. The social use of catalá backs in place of progress, despite the fact that today we have a potential linguistic community as we had never dyed it. They are many years of linguistic, cultural and social struggle from the political gloomy as we are now retreating. Our obligation is to keep her alive and strong, they owe it to a lot of people. We are the nets of those who do underground classes playing hot, we are the sons and daughters of the and the masters who rape with families made immersion a model of successful social and linguistic cohesion. And all of them, generation after generation, independent of the origins and the language that is spoken at home, have cregued in the català as a tool of cohesion and social integration and national construction. We are fully aware that a Catalan republic would shield the Catalan, but also that when you don't have all the tools to do so it is essential to protect the language, fight against uniformity and guarantee opportunities for everyone. We have the obligation, because if we are not the Catalans and the Catalans that we serve, who will do it for us? That ours, of language, makes us responsible for being guarantors every day with esteem, without shame or shyness and planting us in front of the obstacles that put us to their use. The mission for the catalá is therefore absolute and we all have to involve ourselves, socially and politically. That is why we are celebrating the determination of the Department of Culture to promote a national language pact as approved by Parliament a few weeks ago. And, at the same time, today, it is absolutely essential to shield the català to audiovisual plataforms. If someone pretends to ridicule him, it would not only make a mistake, it would show that he has not understood how critical is the salvation of the català, nor the importance of audiovisual in the social use of languages. It's a quota debate, obviously, and we'll fight them where we want to. Defending the català is, without cracks, defending the country we want. For all this, President, what measures does the Government propose to protect and promote the use of Catalan language? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.131.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, this Government is fully committed to defending the social use of català, in its promotion and to providing the language of the country with the tools necessary to guarantee it continuity and that it continues to be a tool of social cohesion. And, obviously, this is a task that corresponds to all departments. We will push forward the national language pact, which was supported by the eighty-five per cent of this chamber in the past general policy debate. But we are also working in the whole field of audiovisual, not only in the elaboration of the law itself, but we are also negotiating to govern with the Government of the State for which the audiovisual regulation of the State must be in the future, which must establish quotas for production, for folding and for subtitles in Catalan. But there are also many other departments involved. From Research and Universities we are working precisely, so simply to ensure that, in those teachings that are explained to be shared in català, it is guaranteed that this is complete. Just as simple as that. Work for the better use of català to the Administration of Justice, for example. Of the guarantee of assistance in Catalan language in all and each of the public services of the Government of Catalonia, to develop also all that are, in the field of language, tools of artificial intelligence in Catalan. Therefore, it is a question that correspond to all departments of the Government of Catalonia. That's why we're pushing the national language pact. This is why we are also working in the educational field to strengthen the model that makes català the language vehicle to our schools and that must guarantee and continue to guarantee, therefore, the knowledge of català, of castle, but also of English, a time has come from the school system of our country. That is why fighting against school segregation is also very important. But I believe that the warnings they have must also be placed at the expense of the actions that our language has. Our language is a language of a linguistic domain of more than 10 million speakers. That's why Palma's statement with the valiant government and the ballar government is important. It's a language, languages that aren't languages of a state, that have more use on the Internet. And, therefore, it is a well-positioned language that counts on a creative cultural production, a production in extraordinary literary and first level at world level. We put the actions at the back, and in this country the català will have a lot of future. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.133.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat to reply orally in full on the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the audiovisual communication and the measures to make the law of cinema complete in relation to the promotion of catalá]] [[317-00070/13]] The question is posed by Mr Salvador Illa, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.134.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Aragonès, the new general audiovisual communication law, in the foreground of which the Government of Spain is working, must protect all co-official languages and must respect autonomous competitions. My group is clear and has been working in this direction for some time. In this, it seems to me, we agree, and you have my support. Also tea, Mr. Aragonès, to deploy the law of Catalonia cinema. And I'd like to know what measures your government has planned to complete this law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.135.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.136.0	Thank you very much. In the field of audiovisual communication there was, therefore, a first political agreement between parliamentary groups, but I, as President, am pleased to acknowledge that, on the part of the Government of the State and the parties supporting it, the need to introduce quotas. This is a change that hadn't happened so far. We have reached broad parliamentary agreements here, on this line. And, therefore, I believe that this is an important step that obviously needs to be taken and that has also been accompanied by the need to locate audiovisual production in the country. In the matter of..., the law of cinema illustrates, therefore, up to what point there are competitions in the matter of competence that correspond to the authorities of state competence, many times makes it difficult for us to act; as well as the vision of the regulation of unit of market. But in any case, we are working and we will continue to work in the field of doubling funding in Catalan so that there is a presence in the cinemas of Catalonia. But another thing that is also very important: this effort made by the Government of Catalonia, which is based on the grant to facilitate this doubling, must be available not only for the cinema distributor and because it is distributed to cinemas, but must also be available for audiovisual platforms. I believe that if we are able to do this in the development of the law of cinema, but also in the application of the new audiovisual rules, we will adapt the objectives of the law of cinema to the new reality that we have of the audiovisual consumption of the country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.137.0	To answer the question, has the word Mr. Salvador Illa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.138.0	Mr. Aragonès, the Law 20/2010 of the Catalonian cinema, establishes that the twenty-i-five_per_cent of the cinema offer has to be doubled or subtitled to the català. We're getting to three percent today with enough work. I'm not saying, I'm saying, I'm saying the study of the Language Platform made public on October 26th, which reports, of course, that during the last two years nothing has been done to make this law complete; you have years of governments of which you have been a party. Also in these last two years the investment of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation in the production of Catalan cinema has gone from a set_per_cent of the premise to 0,3_per_cent. In the audiovisual field, the català needs doubling, subtitling and creation. I already know that your group will not present a threat to the totality of the assumptions that you have announced to us that you will present your government the coming week to force to deploy the law of cinema to Catalonia, but there would be reasons. Look, you will always have my support when you demand from other governing bodies, in this case the Government of Spain, that they complement and respect the skills of Catalonia. But it would be more credible if you also had self-requirement criteria for your government. [[Greetings.]] It's not a waste that what they demand from others is not applied to you. He will always have us at his side, be in the pact for the català, but please also complete the laws approved by this Parliament in matters of defense of the català. And, in terms of assumptions, I welcome the news that you have given us today – I understand that officially, because you are addressing the representatives of Catalonia's citizens – that the coming week will bring the assumptions back to this room. Five months after his investiture. It's about time. You also know that my group wants to make it easier for the Government of Catalonia to have some assumptions... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Applauds]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.139.0	To answer, the President of the Generality has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.140.0	I celebrate your position in linguistics, Mr. Illa. A position that, obviously, if we have, like the government of Catalonia, the tools that the Government of the State has, to which, certainly, we have had to insist, we have had, let us say, to pursue continuously for this change of position to the law of the audiovisual..., if we have a government of the State also that we understand that the catal is also a language of the State and that the languages of the State are not just a single one, but that there are some more, among others the catal, we have been able to deploy much better than the law of the cinema, and you know it perfectly, because it is very different the relationship that can have with the majors of a government of a country that does not yet belong to the government of this country. If there was this follow-up, it was very different. So, I celebrate this position of yours, and if it's indicated that the Spanish government is also changing in this area, then it's going to be a... [[The President withdraws the use of the microphone to the President of the Generality. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.141.0	After the control session, we now move to the next item on the agenda, the proposal for a resolution on the creation of a specific committee for the processing of consolidated texts. [[Proposal for a resolution establishing a specific committee for the processing of consolidated texts]] [[252-00012/13]] This proposal has been submitted for the Socialist and Unity Parliamentary Group for Progress, the Parliamentary Group of Republican Left, the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - A New Cycle for Winning and the Parliamentary Group of In Common We can. As agreed at the last meeting of the Spokesperson, there is no provision for the intervention of parliamentary groups at this item on the agenda. Therefore, we shall proceed to your vote at all times. Can you please accept this motion for a resolution? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, let's start the vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The vote begins... sorry. Why ask me the word, Mr. García?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.142.0	Because you're calling it a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.143.0	Yes, I am calling; but it was the next point, there are all the deputies present in the chamber... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Long break.]] If you have made the three calls, we shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The proposal for a resolution establishing a specific committee for the processing of consolidated texts was adopted with 117 votes in favour and 11 votes against. The commission was created. [[Decree-Law 23/2021 of 19 October amending Decree-Law 18/2021 of 27 July on the increase in remuneration for the year 2021 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2014 for the staff of the public sector of the Generalitat]] [[203-00013/13]] We turn to the next item on the agenda, the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 23/2021 of 19 October, amending Decree Law 18/2021 of 27 July, on the increase in remuneration for the year 2021 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2014 [[remorse of the voice]] – please leave the chamber in silence – for the staff of the public sector of the Generalitat. First of all, and in accordance with Rule 158.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the President's Counsellor will speak to explain the reasons for which this decree has been promulgated. The word has the counselor Laura Vilagrà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.144.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, President, Members, Members, I am well present today to ask for the vote in favour of the validation of Decree Law 23/2021, of 19 October, amending Decree Law 18/2021, of 27 July, on the increase in remuneration for the year 2021 and the partial recovery – which in this case will be total – of the import of the extraordinary payment of the year 2014 for the public sector staff of the Generalitat de Catalunya. I want to start by pointing out that this government is completing the pacts to which it is above, and not just completing them, but in this case it is moving towards the terms granted with trade union organizations. In fact, some of you, some of the parliamentary groups have asked us to make progress, as did the representation of the staff of the Generality, and to analyse the execution of the assumption, obviously with Economy, to the proposal of Economy, so we have established that we would make this presuppositionary effort and advance this payment. Because we believe that the basis of a good Administration is its workers and workers, and, in fact, now some years ago the public servants and the public servants to the General Service had to make a great effort, they saw their salaries reduced and also limited their working conditions. Now we're on our way, far ahead, to reverse the girl details then, and despite this difficult context in which we still see ourselves, made worse, so, for the crisis stop from the pandemic of the covid-19, I can say that I am proud of the public servants and servants, because throughout this period, and before, and especially now, their performance and dedication to the service of the citizenry has been absolutely relevant. His effort and vocation has been and is the foundation of our welfare state. Therefore, I take advantage of my intervention to thank you once more for the fetafetael work you have committed and the effort you have made. From the government we are aware that the claims of the servers and the public servers are just, and, as I said, we are also a government that complements the agreements in the terms covenants, and, in this case, we advance them, and that is why the detail of this decree is advanced and I move on to expose the most outstanding points. This decree approved by the Government amends the previous one on the increase in remuneration for the year 2021 and the partial recovery of the import of the extraordinary payment of 2014, and, in this sense, the previous decree provided for the return of fifty-five percent of the payment of 2014 in this quarter of 2021, but what we are doing is, in this case, to make the return also of forty-five percent remaining that, according to trade union agreement, the Generalitat had undertaken to return during the year 2022. But now it has been the Government's intention to return to as soon as possible the imports that have been lost from the Generality and Public Sector Administration staff, and to make a considerable effort, we are absorbing this expense in the current assumption. The present decree includes, therefore, the modification of the agreement proposed for the government and approved on October 18 for the general table of the negotiation of the public office, and we advance, therefore, the cent_per_cent of this payment of 2014 before the end of the year. This initiative involves the payment of EUR 533 million and allows for the advance of a year, or if not a few months, the total compliment of the agreement signed with the unions, and the totality of the extraordinary payments that the public employees have failed to notice will be restored. In this way, the Government is firm in its commitment to the recovery of rights and the improvement of the working conditions of public administration workers. And in any case, all in all, ask them to vote in favour of the validation of this decree. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.145.0	Thank you, Counselor. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to determine their position. This round of words, according to what we agreed on at the last Spokesman's Meeting, will be a maximum of five minutes for each group. In the first place, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, Mr Cristòfol Gimeno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.146.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor; good morning, counselor. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, well, after the presentation made by the Council in which it amended Decree 18..., and presented the contents of this new decree that goes to say the recovery of this extra payment of 2014 to all the public workers of the Government of Catalonia..., we then approved that the recovery of this one hundred and fifty per cent and today the recovery of this one hundred per cent on this November's roll. Therefore, from our group, the same one that we were already in favour of at that time, as we are already moving forward, we will also be giving back support to this proposal. But let me also say that in the same line... from our group we think we're going too late: from 2014 to 2021. Welcome to the decision, obviously, but they'll convince me that seven years later is a long time. It's too late, it's too many years, and I think we're the autonomous community that we've taken the longest, we've done the last. So, we've already said it, but I think I need to repeat it at these times, because it's at these times when I need to repeat things. Politics is making decisions, it's prioritizing, and we don't think there were right decisions and left a little band to public workers. You committed yourself to making this payment effective in 2014, first, after the pressure of the vague committee and the agreement with the workers in 2018, also after in the Parliament a motion for a resolution that our group asked for, in 2016, that is presented a clear and concrete schedule of payment of this payment. And also after the meetings, as the Councillor said, which they had held with the majority unions, the Commissions and the UGT, at the beginning of this legislature, which demanded that we present it today for approval, which is the recovery, not of fifty-five per cent, but of one hundred per cent of this extra payment. So, as I said, we celebrate this decision, welcome, and we understand that you may see, therefore, that the Generality's treasury is what it is, and, even though you haven't said it, we believe that it is also the consequence of all these economic transfers that have been made by the Government of Spain in the last few months. It hasn't been said, but I think we have to take it into account, too. We cannot demand and claim from others what we, like the government of Catalonia, do not do when we do not pay what we owe. As I said, joints, county councils, congresses... they've been attending to this debt with their workers for a long time. That's where sometimes, then, we have Catalans and Catalans involved, when "having debts does not please us, and therefore when we can settle them and stay calm, better. Therefore, all these institutions have already attended to this debt hanging out with their workers a long time ago. We can't obviously blame this government, and especially you as counsel, but I do want to see that all the groups that have been part of the government these years have not made these decisions and have not prioritized the allocation of these resources to attend to what is due. So, from our group, as I said, we'll be old for the compliment, because it completes all our commitments with public workers. And they can count on us in all the proposals that are going to improve the aspects of the working relationship between the Generality and the workers and the workers. So, it's better late than never. We really believe that we should not have taken so long, and we believe that we should have done so long before this decision was taken. As the counselor said, we recognize all the work of the public workers who have been at the edge of the cane during, too, all this difficult time, but first we pay what we owe and then we do the recon. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.147.0	Thank you very much. Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Andrés Bello.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.148.0	Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. In an intervention in an earlier plenary session, I read article 64 of the current Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, which states: "In the event of an extraordinary and urgent need, the Government may issue provisional legislative provisions in the form of a decree law. As we see, there must be two factors: that the need is extraordinary and that it is also urgent. The purpose of this decree law, as stated in her previous speech by the Counsellor, is to amend another decree law proposed by the Government of the Generalitat itself and validated by this Parliament, on 29 July – recently. At present, as the Commissioner has also pointed out, two aspects are being changed. One, it is concrete that the payment of this extra payment withheld to public servants since 2014 will be made in November. In the last one, huh? , decree law, July, said that the last quarter would be paid. And the other change, which is the important one, said..., before he said he would pay fifty and five and now they tell us that they pay one hundred and a hundred of the money owed to public servants. So, one wonders if, what is the extraordinary and urgent need that justifies this new decree law? What has changed from July 29 to October 16, the date of this new decree law? Nothing! Nothing has changed at all. This is simply another case in which we can contemplate the incompetence and lack of professionalism of this Government in all its splendour. The Government of the Generalitat is using the legislative procedure of the Decree Law to its whim and solely to its political expediency. And besides, he's taking the taste of it. As we can see, this is Decree-Law No. 23, which has been processed this year. And there's more, there's more going on. Why does this government need this Parliament if it is stealing one of its main functions, legislative power, defined as the capacity to draft and pass laws on matters in which it has competence? How do you want us to take them seriously? Once again, this government of incompetents again demonstrates the lack of respect for the citizens of Catalonia. In this case, by the public servants to whom, after seven years of waiting, they are promised in July that they will be returned fifty_and_five_per_cent of the due and in a decision that seems more fruit of arbitrariness, a few weeks later they promise one hundred_per_cent. However, there is another possibility. That this sudden change is due to a premeditated and previously agreed by the Government itself. It would be more like a tyranny, in which payment would not be a result of a right of citizens, but of a grace of political power, of the tyrant in this case. One more way to create and consolidate your customer network to which we are so accustomed. Only they know what the real reason for this change is. Incompetence or tyranny. Of course, from this VOX Parliamentary Group we are in favour of giving back to all the public servants of Catalonia the salaries that another separatist government stole from them seven years ago. We are not so much about the members of the Government, the senior officials, the senior management, on whom we once again use to call for a significant reduction in their number. We also agree that public servants should be paid as soon as possible, although we disagree with the way in which the separatist Government has dealt with it and, of course, with the unjustified delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.149.0	Next, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle for Winning, has the words of Mrs Maria Dolors Sabater.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.150.0	Thank you very much, President. I start by showing all the support to companies and companies that are judged in the case of "the newer ones of Lledoners". Thank you for giving me the word; good day, deputies, deputies, counselors. Good morning, parliamentary workers and parliamentary workers. Before anything else, a recognition and thanks to all the people mobilized against job insecurity and against temporality. To all persons and entities mobilized and compromised in the defense of public services and a recognition of trade union work, especially to which it raises rupture and which is confronted with the system, with the current regime. Let me also have a few words of thanks for the work done to our fellow Vidal Aragonés, ex-parliamentary now, who has often defended the public sector from this hemisphere. And, relegating some of his interventions, especially when the Decree Law 2/2018 was approved, of recovery of part of the extraordinary and additional payment of the month of December 2012..., then we were in full 155 and is clearly copied, with this perspective of the day, the gravity and magnitude of that measure taken more than a decade ago and which is now restored. In order to move forward, I say from the outset that we will vote in favour of this decree, but it seems important to us to take this look back. And there are three things I want to highlight. It seems to me that it's important to set the date, we're talking about an expropriation of the 2014 pay; first it was 2012, which was done in 2010, 2012, both at the state level and at the generality level. And that was the most responsible People's Party, but that Convergence and Union here, the Generality, also had a responsibility. Three things for memory: first, with the excuse of stabilising the public sector before the crisis and of remunerating economically, he chose to expropriate workers' and workers' payments. He didn't choose to tax the big fortunes. It was not chosen to take progressive or control measures of tax fraud or to reduce assumptions for the monarchy or the army; no, it was expropriated workers and workers. The result is that the daily suffering of the popular classes continues to feel the reality of our barrels and our cities, and the heavy shortages of public services continue. Learning: the solution is not to be saved in work pay, the solution is a system change. Let's remember that so that we don't fall back into it again, in the disarray of this measure. Next. What was done was an expropriation of labour rights, but an expropriation of labour rights to the public sector. What was done was that what had already been generated, which was the merit of the extra payment, was drastically approaching the workers and workers, no more, and this aggression is done precisely to the workers and workers in the public sector. A sector that, of course, makes use of neoliberal ideology. Always evil sees the same, the same mark, this ferocious capitalism that outstrips the lucrative interests of a minority before the well-being of a large majority. In any case, the next time we do it, they'll find us here. We expropriate the capital to put it in the service of the popular classes. Third and last observation. You know what we're defending from our political space. And we defended him with all conviction. The CUP and Guanyem Catalunya are clear that we will not have a fair society if we do not bet drastically on a strong public sector. And a strong public sector passes by planning and pushing public services; to do public services that do not yet exist, that are now privatized, like energy, banking; it passes by to improve and increase resources to sanitation, education, support to dependency; but it also passes because the workers and workers have decent wages and a job status that they do not have at present. We are clear that we will not build a republic if we do not have a powerful public sector. And we won't build a republic if we don't offer quality public services for the popular classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.151.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Puem, has the word Mr Joan Carles Gallego.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.152.0	Well, good afternoon to all of you. Well, we will vote in favour of this decree, for consistency, for justice and for respect. Consistency, because, obviously, In Comú Podemos we presented the month of July a motion that we demanded that is paid this pay that is retracted 2012 or 2014, that is paid in full. Interestingly, the government voted against it. We, in coherence, will obviously vote in favour of it, as it cannot be otherwise, because we are talking about restoring rights to workers and public workers in very difficult times, in times of significant financial crisis, where people were going through it very badly and where the government chose to suppress a good part of the inheritance tax, making a tax gift to great fortunes, to people with sufficient resources, while they were passing rights on to workers. In this case, public employees and employees. Therefore, we, for consistency, will vote in favour of the law decree, because we understand that we need to restore rights in the terms we already proposed last July. Obviously, we will vote for justice, for justice with workers and public workers. Public workers and workers always take the brunt of the socio-political and economic situations that the countries see, because when evils go, public workers and workers are always serving public services, they are always on the side of people, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side, they are on the side. Public employees and employees are always at the forefront of the problems, at the expense of the citizenry, and they cannot be allowed to stand upright. For justice's sake, we vote in favour of the decree. And obviously, out of respect. To respect why this agreement is the strict compliment of what was agreed in the year 2018 with the unions that had called a vacancy, Workers' Commissions and UGT, in the case of the Public Service Bureau. Because the 2018 agreement said that it could pay the 2014 payment in full, this 2021, if it were possible to do so. If it wasn't possible, 2021-2022; but if it was possible, it's faith 2021. And that's what happened, and that's how it worked out. It is worth it that Constable Vilagrà also recognizes that this was agreed, that it is not a gift from the Government, but that it is the fruit of the trade union pact that was established in 2018 and that it was referred to the negotiating table a few days ago here in Catalonia, obviously, as it cannot be in any other way. But, obviously, we will vote in favour of it for consistency, fairness and respect. But let me say two things that are behind this government decree. I think there is a problem that is clear and worrying, because I don't know if this government has a personnel management policy, a public service management policy of the Government of Catalonia, or simply a three-year management policy. And depending on whether there is treasuries or not, it does one thing or another. We must have a personnel policy, a public service policy, a policy of respecting workers' rights and public workers' rights. And here you have to put in the effort to give it a compliment. What can't be is that, depending on whether there's treasuries, we'll do one thing or we'll do another. We need to know exactly what the personnel policy of the Government of Catalonia is. Because it's from the staff's rights where the needs of the citizenry are met, not depending on how the Generality box goes. Because the box has to be full, because we have to have a tax system that guarantees the sufficiency of resources to make the public policies necessary, that go through having public servers with quality of work so that they can do their job well. Therefore, I am concerned to see that with this decree we do not know if we manage the staff or if we manage the treasury. And second, because I also understand that what it is, from this decree to law, also recognize the right to collective bargaining of workers and public workers. Let us not forget that we are still in agreement with the general terms of the public work of the Government of Catalonia of the year 2007, which expired in 2011. That in 2012 they detailed the rights that had been agreed in 2007. And that, at this time, this general public service agreement has not yet been renewed. As well as the board of directors, beyond this decree, of this remuneration, of this recognition of payments, that it understands that it should place on the table the recognition of the right to collective bargaining; negotiate a new agreement of general conditions, a new convenient collection of public workers, which is where the general agreement of 2007 was, where a good part of the labor rights that were redistributed in 2012 was recovered; it was not only redistributed the pay, it was redistributed more rights, and I can return them already. All right, all right, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.153.0	Thank you. Subsequently, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Mr Joan García, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.154.0	MPs, MPs, Councillors, so it was time; we can already say that after seven years, it will pay the 2014 pay, but above all after a decade; from a decade that began..., and that at least I as a Member have experienced, in the years 2015, 16 and 17, and all the previous negotiations..., which assumed to arrive at the end of this path, therefore, situations some ancient, grotesque and Kafkian that have lived and that have defended the different governments of the Generality. And let's remember that this starts with that government of the best, that government that in the end was the best detail and the best extractions of labor, social and economic rights to public workers. It has been said here, the public workers in the end are the ones who end up paying for one side of the crisis with an overstress and a direct overstress to keep public services with very limited conditions and resources. And they also end up paying, in this case, with their own, say, wages and many times with their rights... – and they also said here: that many rights have not returned and we doubt that they can return some day – so they end up paying everything that goes on in a crisis as we lived then and as we are living and we have lived with the cove. I wanted to remember that that government, and especially the government of Mr Puigdemont, put all the passages that he could to return and make the return of the external payments of the public workers. I'm saying that because I don't want this to go away. That government, the government of Mr Puigdemont, accused of misappropriation, while embezzled, say, the entire public, was refusing at the same time to return the money to the workers and the workers' labour and social rights. And, besides, with an aggravation, it is that at that time, especially 2017, it did it by pressing the public workers, by pressing the working people, because it followed a good part of their political objectives. And this is what we in the city have always opposed. And I think I know a little bit about everything that's happened and how we've lived in this Parliament is right, and I think it's just that we do it. The public workers went through it badly, they went through it badly and that government of 2017 did it badly, it's obvious. Then, yes, it is true, it was possible to reach an agreement, that in the end what ends up giving us is, therefore, a return of a few payments to public workers, to an autonomous community where we say it is the most detailed, where we pay the most external we have, or we say, tre or almost said that it used the public workers improperly; the 2012, 13, 14... Many autonomous communities did not use the 2014 one. It's been done here. And we've been the last ones to return this pay. So, there's a part of the decree that says that there's been an over-effort to return all the money and all the social and labor rights to the workers... Well, an over-effort, let me..., and I'm just as focused on you now, counselor, who finally came to the end of the road and touched on you, so, for one thing, to give this positive news to the workers, but also to the opposition and all the history or history of these governments, the bad government in this case. But it's true that this happened, we lived it, and I don't think it's fair. I think public service requires better management. Remember, and this is a date that we can't deny, that we've been through two years of a time, to public office, from 20 to 40 percent. This growth rate is unsustainable. We have on the table still the problem with good part of the interns. I believe that the workers require, and for us, therefore, they have all our support, an immense gratitude for what they have done, especially for the last few years. But, really, counselor, by the way, manage better. I think we'll vote for it; I didn't say it, but we'll vote for it. It didn't seem like it was what I was talking about, but yes, we would vote for it. But it was... say, it's a rather critical vote. Thank you, Counselor, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.155.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, on behalf of the Group Mixt, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.156.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning; good morning to everyone. We will also make a favorable vote, although it seems a little surrealist to be at the end of 2021 talking about returning a part of the 2014 sou. I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that 2012 was also a highlight of the other working rights of the workers of the Generalitat, of whom he has not returned to know anything else, and perhaps it would be a good time to take advantage of the fact that the Government is speaking about whether or not to return those rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.157.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, Mrs Gloria Freixa has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.158.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, all the other groups have already commented today: what we are coming to is to ratify this decree – which seems to be unanimous – to return this extraordinary payment that was missing from 2014 to the public servants of our country. I believe that this decree, as has already been mentioned, poses an unfair situation that was the result of a very deep crisis in the Spanish State and a global crisis, as we have already explained other times in this faristol when we came to talk about this subject. But today I think it's particularly relevant, because more than I want to say if it was granted or not granted with the unions, what is certain, as the counselor said, is that a very important presuppositional effort has been made and that this payment is returned to this 2021 in its entirety. I think we should have done a few things today. Quite simply, I think we should congratulate each other because after so many years, as the socialist company has also said here, it has become this pay, and little else we should say, what happens is that sometimes, so, well, we are also here to remember certain things and in many cases to do some toilets. But if we pull back in time, as has been said by all political groups, and it is always aimed at going further and further, as I have said before, this crisis is worldwide, this crisis does not begin in Catalonia..., but at that moment when Zapatero has to make that immense detail of more than 15,000_million euros, it already affects, at that time, a five-per-cent of the sound of the public servants. It is to say that it is not that Catalonia is inventing the detail, but that we find ourselves in a very complex context where from here, from the Parliament of Catalonia, it is also the Councillor Castells who at that time announces this detail of the five_per_cent of the self to the functioning, and, therefore, is much earlier. How is this situation reversed? It's very difficult, because the clippings aren't just going to work. Those trimmings were of this kind. And, in addition, we find ourselves not getting them from the Spanish government because they want to do it, but from the European Union it is a touch of attention and it is asked that these details apply because Spain is failing. And that world crisis wasn't as strong as it was if it wasn't because things weren't going well. And Spain was probably one of the countries that made it worse. And that's why we had to see ourselves immersed in this detail. I am grateful to be told that from the Socialist Party, from the commons and from so many other parties it has helped to reverse this situation and pressure has been put on the government and it has obviously also been talked to the unions, which have done a lot of good work, because it is reversed in these details. But it's true that, well, beyond what you might have been able to do here, they haven't helped us to see the box that you were saying. You say: "Always apologize to the box, to the treasury... Home, so yes – so yes – because it has been very difficult for us to recover that economic crisis and to hold these money back to deal with these payments. That in soc the first injured of that time, because I at that time was an employee. So I know very well what he's talking about. But, listen, help us out there, too. Because, of course, talking here about this when we have to agree, 2021 – in a democratic country – that fiscal balances are published because we don't know yet what is the counter-performance between us and Spain... Home, this year's fever, 2020; we'll see when they're published. But, so, when they complain about us apologizing to the box... home, so the box is there. And the box... it's you who can help us there too, and not press so much here, but press there because this box is bigger. Well, I don't think we need to say much more, because we've talked a lot about this. I think today we're coming to congratulate ourselves on this return from the extraordinary pay before I was expecting it. It began 2019, Councillor Puignero, with the return of this pay, and Councillor Vilagrà today confirms the total return of this pay with an effort of the Generality's premise. We believe that it is an act of justice for all the public workers of the Government of Catalonia. We want to remember that it continues to feel the territory of the State with less functioning per inhabitant, almost half of the functioning that have communities like Extremadura. Here only one_of_each_workers takes charge of the public sector. And from now on, we want to thank you; we want to thank you because you've been at the bottom of the dog, because we wouldn't have the level of quality we have in our public services in this country, in sanitation, or in education, if we didn't have that high level of public service, that level of people we have working in these services. So I just want to end up like this. Thank you, Catalan public servers, to always be at the service of your country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.159.0	Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Republican Esquerra of Catalonia, has the word Mr Jordi Albert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.160.0	Thank you, President. He said, "Jordi Albert and the people of Junts have begun to leave, you, that's tremendous, and when the Units arrive to advance, so..., which thing begins to worry me. [[Rialles.]] That said, I'm not gonna say surprise, am I? ... I will not tell you that I was surprised, because it is not certain that I was surprised, but I do want to put the emphasis on various issues that have arisen here during the previous interventions. I would like to remind you, in effect, that what we are carrying today is a modification of a decree, of a decree which was approved, which validated this Parliament in July, and that in that decree there was, therefore, the payment of the extra payment of 2014, the partial part of fifty-five_per_cent, and now what we are doing is to extend this fifty-five_per_cent to one hundred_per_cent; therefore, incorporating forty-five_per_per_cent that by 2021 was not expected to carry out the payment. And, in effect, this is a law decree that was necessary and that was urgent. And why was it necessary and why was it urgent? Because it's the mechanism that we have and that the government has in place to apply these presumptive payments. Therefore, these demagogic and populist appeals to tyranny seem to me not only not to be near, but to me that, coming from the coming group, they are an authentic oximoron. I don't know if they know what this word means, but the tyrants are accusing us of tyranny, so... because we're on it. It seems to me to be genuinely shameful, and it would be good if the next time they appear in this faristol is to see that it is a decree of the law, so that a decree of the law is used and, above all, I stop telling lies, because every time they work their mouths, the lies come to their knees. But anyway, I thought someone would appreciate that effort, too. Because, in effect, there has indeed been an effort on the part of the Government, an effort on the part of the Government because it has advanced the negotiation. That agreement with the vacancy committee, ratified later with the General Public Service Bureau, which said that the year 2021 would pay fifty-five percent of the 2014 extra pay and that the year 2022, 2022 – maybe someone has taken over a time machine and it is thought that we have already advanced, but no, we are still 2021 – that 2022 would pay forty-five percent. And here there is a willingness on the part of the Government to give compliment to this agreement (removing funds), the result of the mobilization of officials and officials to our country, but also the result of collective bargaining. And there was this willingness, because the government could have completed the agreement by 100 percent and so carry the payment of this extra forty-five percent pay to the 2022 assumption. And it goes to the 2021 premise, because this November the employees and the public employees of our country may have entered in the payroll the full extra pay to the cent_per_cent of 2014. And I think that's what we have to say, and that's why, because that's what it is. Because this government has indeed expressed a political will to advance this payment that was for 2022. And, in turn, this recognition of the groups, which all voted in favour, the fa. And it is important that we also highlight this, because the strict compliment of the agreement led us to the compliment of the 2022 premise and not to the 2021 assumption. And we need to make this clear. And I, frankly, am deeply grateful to Councilwoman Vilagrà that she has reached this agreement as a suitable agreement, that she has assumed as a proper agreement what is the result of collective bargaining with the representatives of the workers and the public workers of our country and that it has advanced these months. Because, in effect, since 2014, it's already wasted years that it lasted. But it is also true that this payment could have been delayed until 2022, which is exactly what the Collective Negotiation Agreement gave, the agreement with the 2018 vacancy committee. Therefore, before all the words that have preceded me, I think it is important to emphasize that, as a result of the social dialogue and as a result of this government's will, in November all public workers will have 100_per_cent of the 2014 pay. And that's the most important thing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.161.0	After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote. According to Rule 158.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of its derogation. Let us, therefore, vote on the validation of Decree Law 23/2021. The vote begins. With the result of the vote, with 131 votes in favour, the Decree Law 23/2021_was validated. According to Rule 158.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law decree has been validated, I ask the chamber whether there is any parliamentary group that wants to process this law decree as a draft law? As long as there is no petition, this decree has been validated and will not be processed as the bill. [[Law Project of the Science of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[200-00002/13]] Let's move on to the third point of the order of the day: the debate to the totality on the bill of law of the science of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules, the Research and University Adviser, who now has the same word, will speak on behalf of the Government to present this legislative initiative. Go ahead, advise Geis. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.162.0	Well, good morning to everyone. President, President of the Generality, Members, Members. Today is another important day for the science and knowledge of this country, because today we are debating the law draft of the law of science in Catalonia, approved for the government on July 27, its first law, its first law draft. As the Research and University Advisor we are fully focused on putting all our efforts in place because this one has the highest consensus of this chamber and is moving forward as soon as possible. And it's just to recognize also the paper that the teams of the departments of Enterprise and Knowledge that have preceded me since the year 2017. I would especially like to thank the general secretary of the department, Esther Morales; the Director General of Research, Joan Gómez Pallarès; the Director General of Universities, Victòria Girona; the secretaries of the CIC, Josep Ribes; and the lawyers, Roser Martí and Encarnació Grau, for their work, especially the Roser, who will soon retire, for his long career in the service of knowledge and the search of this country – thank you very much, Roser. And he also wanted to make a special mention to the Secretary of Universities and Research, Francesc Xavier Grau, who I have the luck that I continue to accompany me on this project of the council. Thank you very much for your perseverance and for making this project come true. I've structured this exhibit into three blocks. A first block relating to the Catalonia of knowledge, the Catalonia that has been, which is and will be a Catalonia of talent, knowledge, science, innovation and progress. A _second block related to the import of approval of this bill, and a third block related to the main inputs that this bill contains. The first block, the Catalonia of knowledge, which has been, is and will be, starting by asking you, deputies and deputies, if this bill of law... this bill of law, the importance it has. Why does Catalonia need this law of science? So precisely because Catalonia has been, it will be a land of innovators, a land of knowledge, a land of talent, of innovation. And if you look at it, the bill serves the word "science" and does it in a broad sense. It includes technology as a science of the industrial arts, innovation as a consubstantial element to the science of border that is fostered there and the transfer of knowledge as a process that converts science into wealth. But from where we come – and let me make a brief look at the long trajectory of our country's scientific community. Catalonia has been, far from its history, an open and dynamic society, leading to social and economic transformations. In the National Research Awards, the Catalan Research and Innovation Foundation offered us a review of the most important features – which I could highlight today – as the various cultural and scientific renewal actions due to the end for Enric Prat de la Riba des de la Diputació de Barcelona and des de la Mancomunidad de Catalunya or des de l'Institut d'Estudis Catalans. There are many scientists who have had a great role in our history. We could pay back in medieval times when Ramon Llull and Arnau de Vilanova already produce scientific texts in Catalan and not only in Latin. There are many high institutions that have contributed in a very remarkable way to the diffusion of our country's scientific knowledge, always with a look at the world and with great ambition, such as the Royal Academy of Sciences and Arts of Barcelona or the Academy of Medicine and Surgery. And no less important, there are great gifts to the wider history of Catalonia that have an indispensable role in science, such as Martina Castells, of Lleida, the first woman to hold a doctorate in the Spanish State; Dolors Aleu, of Barcelona, first woman licensed in medicine to the State; Trinitat Sais, of the Bisbal d'Empordà, outstanding scientific divulgator of knowledge; or Elena Maseras, of Vila-seca, the first woman enrolled in the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Barcelona. But Catalonia has a system of research, development and innovation that is competitive, internationally and open to the world, integrated by different public and private agents who eventually have a huge task. The Catalan system has twelve universities, fifty-seven research centres, three large technological centres, more than 1,700 research groups recognized for the Generality, divided university hospitals and seven scientific and technological parks. In addition, we have three large unique scientific infrastructures, the Alba synchro, the National Centre for Genomic Analysis and the Barcelona Supercomputing Center. More than eight support infrastructure. In Catalonia we have thirty_ thousand researchers and researchers. Our researchers represent 1.5_percent of the total and generate 3.7_percent of scientific publications in Europe. A remarkable sifter. Moreover, Barcelona is the ninth city in Europe in scientific production. We are captivating in the capture of European foundations. In the last six years and in the framework of the Horitzó 2020 programme, Catalonia has captured 1,583_million euros, a 2.5_percent of the total, much above the 1.5 that represents our pes in populational terms. We are the second country of the European Union in attracting assistance to excellent researchers who are holding the European Research Council, only after the Netherlands. For what it does to the capture of the countries of the European Research Area, Catalonia is in the fourth position, with almost 600_million euros, which account for fifty-three_percent of the resources allocated to the whole of the Spanish State. These days we had good news around the Hippra vaccine, another example of the current power of research in Catalonia. But so will the Catalonia that will be. Can you imagine where we could come up with a law that defines, coordinates, protects, promotes science in its conjunction and a legal order that allows us to identify all the agents in the system? The law of science must allow us as a country to leap forward and become a reference pool between the best in Europe and continue with the ambition to achieve excellence. We are ahead of a law to give coverage to the country's knowledge structure, which acts for its differentiated results as a state structure. The import of this law also does not require this from the scientific community. It was an agreement and a request for a country to formulate this law and it was one of the main agreements of the National Covenant for the Knowledge Society. And, as you know, the pact is the stable, shared and consensual tool, the resources and policies needed to make this Catalonia a leader in research, development and innovation in the world even more. In fact, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the legislative pact, there is expressly the Government's commitment to the approval of the law of the science of Catalonia and the commitment to increase the funding of research up to 2.12_percent of GDP, which amounts to 0.75_percent of public funding. But this law also obliges the government, whatever it is, because it links the funding of the search to the national pact and it must be law. For all this it was requested that this draft law be sent by means of the emergency procedure, which is a faster and faster procedure, but that it is also a procedure which allows us to listen and respond to the requests of parliamentary groups and to listen to their proposals for the better. Since the councillor's office, and in representation of all the members of the councillor's office, I count on the maximum predisposition and sensitivity of the councillor's team to attend to their proposals. They ask for that, too, the maximum agility, the cost of opportunity – and economists know well what I'm talking about – in scientific policies it's high. How did this law work out? Five departments of the Government of the Generality have intervened in the planned work of the Law. There are relevant contributions such as the Catalan Association of Research Entities, the Quality Agency of the University System. And, at the length of its process, there were seven research centres in the country, eight universities, the Committee for the Integrity of Research, the Catalan Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities, the Association of Biotechnology in Catalonia and the Official College of Industrial Engineers and the UGT. Why does the country need us to approve this law of science? Because it is a strategic tool of its own to advance towards the goal of prioritizing research as a guarantee of future, economic progress and social welfare. I reflect the key aspects of the national pact that must enable us to move forward to a country where research, development and innovation is a priority policy of the Government. It is the mark to build a new model of society in which science works from society to society and with society. Moving on to a strong, cohesive country around science that is able to work and believe in its future, a country where science is the way to overcome pandemics and other obstacles. With this we will complete the legislative map of the knowledge of Catalonia, after the law of universities and the law of education. It has all the legal coverage of Article 158 of the Statute, which gives us exclusive competences in research, development and technological innovation. And now, who are the main contributions to this bill? I've basically placed them in eleven. The first: it is a unique and specific governance tool for the country's knowledge system. Governance, good governance, is key to good development and the success of public policies applied to the search, development and innovation system of Catalonia and among all its agents. This law establishes a good governance that allows us, for the first time, to identify all the agents of the knowledge system and assign their functions, always establishing the objectives of scientific, economic and social impact that the science of term. And it is that I would like to remember that every euro invested in research is multiplied by society in four. Second contribution: the definition and consolidation of the Catalan model of the research system; more development and more innovation as the country's structural element to define, coordinate and protect the promotion of Catalan scientific culture. Because the system works in a coordinated, integrated and evaluated way; because it allows us to cope with global challenges and to have the necessary tools; because it allows us to coordinate system agents and fix shared objects withheld accounts, and because it allows us to protect and continue to create a successful model. All this will enable us to consolidate Catalonia's position as an international scientist. Four, and absolutely important: new impetus to the Interdepartmental Research and Innovation Commission, the CIRI, and the creation of the Catalonia Research Council, the Corecat. These two bodies must have a key and highly relevant role in the definition and coordination of research policies in the line of document Catalunya 2220 Reset. The Catalonia Research Council, Corecat, stands as the highest level organ to reflect, debate and advise the Government of which are the strategic decisions of the country in terms of search and transfer. Therefore, equip us for the first time with an external organ to the Government that reflections and tell us who are the search lines with the country we need to push. This is absolutely important. Second, the CIRI, the Interdepartmental Research and Innovation Commission, which will have a new role as a collegiate organ of the Government of the Generality in promoting research, transfer, knowledge and digital society. This is important, too, MPs and MPs. At present, it is not just the Research and Universities consultancy that is being sought out. There are other government departments that search, for example in Cerca centers, and the CIRI is to encourage each councillor, each department, to look for its search partners to promote a specific search related to each government department. This will actually make knowledge policy cross-cutting in government policy, and this practice will entail an increase in public investment in research with the sum of all departments. This, moreover, leading it from the Government of the Generality, therefore with public action. I think it will be an authentic revolution and, in fact, the researchers and researchers in this country who are still in the process, too, today from this debate, tell me: these two organizations, Corecat and CIRI, are two important country structures to make this leap even more forward of the knowledge system. Five: the plan of excellence of university research. Our universities in the country make a very relevant contribution to research, which is more than sixty per cent. This law develops for the first time a plan of excellence for university research and proposes a specific financing to boost it. Sisena: agents of research and development innovation. This law includes all agents of the Catalan research, development and innovation system to promote the coordination of universities and research centres up to support and funding agencies, through similar scientific infrastructures. Therefore, this law is endowed, too, with this cross-coordination of all agents because it recognizes them. The law of science contemplates and recognizes all these agents of the system, because they are all so important..., universities like the centers near our country. Scientific parks are as important as scientific infrastructures, and support agencies such as AGAUR, CSU or Action are as much or more important. The success of our system is based on his coordination. Septena: conditions of the professionals of science. In order to retain, recover and attract talent, the bill defines personnel policies to ensure the proper working conditions of science professionals. And in this line promotes mobility through processes of formation, consolidation, capture, retention and return of talent. You are planning new figures, such as those of technological and technical search support staff or scientific collaborators in tasks of development, direction, management, follow-up and promotion of the evaluation of search plans and programs, development and innovation of temporal character. And here, little parenthesis, that I have the consulting team... we are also very fond of negotiating the first convenient collection of research in Catalonia, huh? We don't have full competence, but we're following it, and we're doing this job under radar because that's a very short-lived reality. Vuitena: new model of public and private financing. So that we can join the European countries that are part of our circle, such as Denmark or Austria, to advance towards a new model of public finance with the greatest involvement of our..., of the world of enterprise and nine forms of sponsorship. Among them, it is envisaged the creation of a sponsorship board in search, development and innovation, in order to positively influence private involvement in the financing of science. Ninth: internationalization and action in research, development and innovation. We are in a scene of global reptes on how to empower Catalonia as an international actor. For this reason, it is also envisaged to deepen this internationalization. What? Increasing of the Catalan contribution to the European Research Area and with the recognition to the research community that is abroad. Our scientific ambassadors, our researchers and researchers, who are outside, as well as developing this open and talent-gathering strategy, this Catalan strategy of open science that is also established in the law of science. Drawing: program for the integrity of research in Catalonia. With the law of science we can have a program to protect the integrity of research and the promotion of good practices, analysis and prevention of conflicts of integrity through the CIR-CAT, which is the Committee for the Integrity of Research, which is already in operation. In fact, last week at the Executive Board we approved the extension of the scientific committee to integrity, hoping that with the law, therefore, you no longer need its extension, but it is already in operation. He referred to it before he spoke of this scientific diplomacy, also the need to have a strategy of an open science country. We've seen it with the pandemic. And the country needs to have this infrastructure, data are an important infrastructure, it's a tool, a raw material for researchers and researchers. And here the government must focus on creating this strategy and this public and open data bank. And finally, deputies and deputies, we have the responsibility, you have the responsibility that of the parliamentary work of this law project gives rise to a trampoline for our universities, for our research centres and for our researchers. This law brings us closer to Europe and drives us to the world. And I just briefly exposed them who I think are, humbly, the contributions of this law. I know that all of you share with my paper you decided that knowledge and science must be in our country and I would like to end with an appointment that defines perfectly who is the paper of science. This quote is from Enric Prat de la Riba, who started the Motius exhibition of the Law Project, today as in force as in 1911, who pronounced it at the time of the creation of the Philological Section of the Catalan Institute of Studies: "Today's science represents, for us, the public wealth of tomorrow. Because knowledge is the most important strategic element for Catalonia's future, because research is the best contingency, because the country deserves it and the scientific community demands it. And for this reason, I hope that this parliamentary debate, this law has been approved with a great deal of consensus and with as much speed as possible. Now he's at his hands and I hope he's real. We equip ourselves as the country of the law of the science of Catalonia; we equip ourselves with a law of country structure as is science; we equip ourselves with a law that holds the central role that corresponds to science in order to succeed in the scientific, social, economic and cultural progress of Catalonia. For a free Catalonia, for a science Catalonia. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.163.0	Thank you, Counselor. And then, as no totality papers have been presented, in order to express its position, has the word, in the first place, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Units to Advance, Mrs.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.164.0	Good morning, Counselor, deputies and deputies. Some of us who have been working in the field of knowledge for a long time have been waiting for this law and we are happy to have it in parliamentary procedure. I think the first time I spoke to a government there was the Toni Castellà, the Secretary General of Universities and Research and the Pep Martorell its Director General. I mean, it's been many years, I think between seven and eight years, that I first talked about this law. In a country, this one, ours, where we are not too accustomed to having relaxed, paused, profound debates on issues that can really mark the country's future, today it is true that it is a living day. We can talk about knowledge, which must be, should be the lever of change in our economy, the transformation of our economy because it is more resilient, more structural and more solid. I want to thank, before I go into the matter, the work that the different governments have done, because this law is true that it is not just the work of the present government, but of the former. And not to mention a lot of people, I congratulate the various governments, also the whole search system, which I know has participated, and, in concrete terms, I want to put the name of a person and I don't want anyone to be angry, but to exemplify it with someone who wanted to put, therefore, the name of Joan Gómez Pallarès, who is the Director General of Research, the current Director General of Research, who in the past time has rotated and piloted this law; also for his disposition, for his good and always to work building, for a system that we all esteem. We did not address the totality, the Parliamentary Group of Socialists and Forward Units, because we thought it was not necessary. But it's true that there are things in the law that don't just convince us or there are things that we find missing in this law. Maybe I'd like to talk more about what's missing than things that we don't like. But it's true that a law or a transfer of a law is needed so that we can improve it, because we can enrich it, because we can process it with all the solvency. And now I'm going to tell you an obvious thing, but who legislates this chamber and who legislates are the deputies and deputies that we are here, and so when a law comes in, come on popular, government or opposition legislative initiative, which is ultimately responsible for that law we're all, we're all here; we're the ones who have the obligation, because the main function of this Parliament is to legislate. And, therefore, I want this to be made clear. And that's why the parliamentary process of a law is so important, because here there is an initial text that can change and I hope that in the case of the law of science I change to improve it and to enrich it. Now, I have to say that I'm disappointed because there are three groups, in this case, Juntes per Catalunya, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP, which decided to deal with this law as a matter of urgency. I think that after waiting so many years and really dealing with a subject so relevant to the future of our country, doing so urgently does not seem to be a waste. I think we could have done a more sessified process where the law can go slowly and, therefore, we can have the best of the laws. The urgency is to detail the processes, reduce them to the maximum, and I think this is not a good thing for a law that needs as much time as it needs. And we also need, the deputies, to listen to this whole sector that the councilwoman was talking about: to take him to Parliament, to listen to his views, to see how he disagrees, how he strengthens himself, how he is mature, so that, after that, he can make the best points that fit with the best text. I have to tell you that I'm disappointed in this, because I'm sure that longer processing could do the best you can. I'm not saying it's not, it's a good law, but I'm sure we can make it better. I repeat, we are responsible for legislating and, therefore, I repeat, I say again, I have already told everyone at personal level, ask them, if you please, to withdraw this urgency, I think it is not good for anyone and, moreover, that we do not understand who the arguments are for urgency. Honestly, we don't understand them. We did, and I see Councilman Tremosa here, I quote him a lot, huh? I don't know, they'll think... in fi, we're more than friends. [[Rialles.]] But Councilman Tremosa knows, because I said it in the first person, we processed two laws by urgency – by urgency – at the end of the last legislature. And I said to him, "Counselor, we're wrong, because we're running as long as we don't do them well. And we had a mistake with the APEA law, which we had to rectify later. Because it was incongruous, things were approved that didn't go away. Anyway, we do the right thing; we do the right thing, and we try to make sure that you don't rush into it and we can handle it with all the calm. Some elements of better of this law, to be positive and constructive. We, more than a law of science, see it as an orderly law of the search system. It's what we see. It's a law that protects the system, and it has to? Oh, and as long as you have to. And as long as you have to protect the system. A system that gave a lot of good results, and the counselor said so, didn't it? And I just want to put this data: Catalonia has 0.1_percent of the world's population, but it produces 1_percent of scientific articles all over the world. Therefore, it has a scientific productivity sometimes greater than the world's population. Is that something to protect? Yeah, it's obvious, and so, in this sense, we agree. But you don't just have to protect. And if it only protects, it's a system orderly law. And leave it here. If we want it to be a law of science, we see things there we find things missing. We're missing a certain planning, a certain horitzo. What paper do we want you to have in mind in responding to global challenges, such as food, health or mobility; but also – and also – what paper do we want you to have in mind in relation to our economy. And we don't think that's enough to solve in the law. Basically because this law is very focused on the search for excellence. And it's true that we have to protect him, I said so. But it can't just be that. And I left a parenthesis: always in these great data and great congratulations that we do, there is clearcurs. One is, and the counselor said, the precariousness of our investigative staff. It's been a long time since we've claimed there's a good deal, isn't it? , moving forward, but slowly. And it's true that it's not just the generality's obligation, but it can stop, right? , can help, can facilitate, can pose the conditions. That's important. We need to establish very competent professional careers and we need to generate the legal background so that's what this is about. But it also passes, for example, and makes the parenthesis, with the ICREA. The ICREA must have a better fit for our universities. It's not quite fixed. And, therefore, here we should look at how we can adjust some figures, not just ICLEA, but also. Therefore, yes, we must enhance, we must protect the search for excellence, but look at the clarobscurs, and then: not only. That's why we think the law is short. He's just talking about research and talking a lot about innovation. Of course, we say that if you only talk about research or you mostly talk about research, you're getting a share of the knowledge. I can generate it on condition, yes, at the highest level, yes, but then I can transform it; I can transform it so that it generates jobs and rich to the territory. It can transform it by valuing this knowledge. "And if we don't do this and say Xavier Ferrás – and I like that phrase very much – "the value chain of knowledge is skewed. Only the generation of very high level, but this value chain up to the transformation, up to the impact on our economy, in our industry, is sluggish. And this is what we have to preserve and we have to incorporate into this law that it is not. Therefore, here we believe that it is very important that we can make a calm analysis and debate to incorporate these aspects. Mirin, the economic impact of our research is scathing, huh? , and that is said by many of the European and world races. We are losing positions in the field of innovation, so we need to make even more efforts. And listen to me, in fact the most advanced countries, 70 percent of their research and developing the fan industries and businesses: 70 percent of the most advanced countries. We're not here. Do we want to be a very advanced country? Yes, and the counselor gave it to him. So, there's a part we've got. We have to put in place resources, policies, we have to design an innovation system, or we have to finish our search system because I end up in this transformation into this appreciation of knowledge. Otherwise, we won't get out of it. And so, we find ourselves missing here more impact from companies to industries. We can't just leave this transfer in the hands of the university, among other things, because the law basically encourages research at universities, right? The papers we're talking about, the transference. Therefore, either we encourage it with laws like this or we have missed an opportunity. The knowledge system in all its value chain, huh? If they want to say so. And so this is one of the most important elements we find missing. The company, the industry has also sought out, has also innovated. And, therefore, we need to look for the best policies, the best instruments, the most resources, obviously, for research and innovation, or for the whole value chain. And I want to put down a cipher. The year 2009 was at 1.7 of GDP in research and development, 1.7; today we are at 1.52. We have lowered, reduced our public and private contribution to research and development. We've got a lot to do. The National Plan for Research and Knowledge already told us, it already marked annual increases for university research for non-university. We wear two years lost in this sense, we don't waste any more time. But, actually, I'd ask for two things. U, who intend to reflect on the urgency, and two, that we may have the time necessary to make this debate that I have made here very quickly in a few minutes because I don't have any more time, but that seems very uplifting to me, not only for the future of research and for the future of our economy, but, really, for the future of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.165.0	Then, on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of Parliament, Manuel Jesús Acosta, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.166.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress the commitment of this Parliamentary Group of Vox to promoting the creation of science and the transmission of knowledge, which must be the priority objectives of universities, hospitals, technological parks and research centres in order to improve society. Of the length, bean, ampul·los, idyllic, repeat and even contradictory preamble or presentation of the present science law project, I have been spared, for a band, the following prayer, quote literally: "Caltaunya has not been until very recently a center producer of scientific research of first order. And this feeling is justified by the fact that the world prestige of Catalan science began in 1907, thanks to Prat de la Riba. Well, before, say proleg, there were scientists pointing out ways, yes, and they laid the foundations. All the same, there is a relationship of Catalan scientists rising up on, curiously, the name of some is repeated two or three times, while others of first level like Ramon de Penyafort, Benet Bails, Longí Navàs Ferrer, Lluís Pericott, Jaume Vicens Vives, Enric Soler i Batlle, Ignasi Barraquer, Ricardo Cirera and Salse, Josep Comas and Solà, and many others. That is, just to point the merit to one of the pairs of nationalism, practically almost exclusively, please. Well, for another band it is said to proleg that the excessive regulation that affects the search, development and innovation system of Catalonia, both external and internal, conditions the potential of researchers. So, why does a law of science have to be done now? In the State sphere we have Law 14/2011, of science, technology and innovation, Law 14/2007, of biomedical research, among others, and in the autonomous sphere we have Law 1/2003, of universities of Catalonia, Decree 314/2006, of creation of name of the network of reference of R+D+I and successive laws that have been established annually in fiscal, administrative and financial matters of the public sector that establish to the additional dispositions related to search centers - Catalan institution of research and advanced studies -, measures in matter of universities and research, among others. So, ultimately, less regulation and more solutions. As the motto of a very close assembly here in Vallès says: fact, not money. We are very concerned about the stagnation of research and development in which Catalonia is found and which leaves the excellent potential of many, many researchers in harm, as a result, of social progress. The Generality's successful governments, more concerned with separatist ideological delusions, have abandoned the priority of investing in research and development and innovation. For example, universities, during the year 2020, invested a forty-two_per_cent less than they invested in research and development in 2009. This descent is alarming and the trend has to be reversed. Well, our perception of the initial reading of this science bill is the first of a declaration of good intentions. Nevertheless, the thorough analysis of the joint obliges us to change our mind and to say that we find ourselves in front of a set of generalities, ambiguity and lack of concrete dispositions, and there has been some significant disarray. Next, I'll dig up some of the elements that I consider most relevant, not all of them. The most worrying example of the lack of detail, of indecretion, is that absolutely nothing is specified about the financing of the R & D & R system, a key aspect if what we are really pursuing is actually promoting science. On the other hand, given that there are eight different bodies with more or less involvement in the management of research and development, it takes advantage of this bill to create more entities, chiringuito entities, such as the CIR-CAT i above all the Coricat, without executive functions but simply advisers. I too, as the Counsellor said, have been able to meet with researchers – I am not so pretentious, not all of them – and with university professors and, among other things, I have been concerned about this reality of creating new entities, new bodies that have a dubious, let's say, functionality. An important point with regard to its non-concretion is 5.2, which refers to CSIC centres and other centres set up by European institutions which, according to the project, would become dependent on the Generalitat « as institutions within the R+D+I system. How will it be achieved without a collision of skills? In the staff selection section, everything is ambiguous and does not specify how it will be done, neither in the case of investigators nor in the case of personnel in training. Another relevant article is 33, which indicates that the entire evaluation of the system is awarded to the Aquo, which we celebrate. Throughout the article there is no mention of relations with similar institutions in the rest of Spain. Nor does there appear any mention of existing structures or programs of great international prestige, such as the project Ramon and Cajal, Juan de la Cierva, Severo Ochoa, and María de Maeztu, these two, by the way, are referents for centers of excellence. However, ideological details are being gathered that we cannot admit, because they have nothing to do with the promotion of science and research. For example, gender perspective, so-called inclusive language, sustainable development goals, nationalistic bias, internationalization to obviate national collaboration. I end with a note that we miss, or an aspect that could have been dealt with also in terms of science and the progress of research, that we miss in the articulation, which is concrete in aspects such as bioethical considerations in research, a defense of the culture of life in the treatment of health research, for example. And, in short – I finish with this – the present bill generates many doubts about its adequacy and usefulness in achieving the laudable goal that it pursues and to which we must be committed all, and that it is nothing other than that of promoting research, development and innovation in Catalonia. When appropriate, we will introduce the amendments that are necessary to make them a useful and effective element for the purpose it pursues, although we are aware that everything will depend on the decrees that develop the law at the time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.167.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the words of Mr Dani Cornellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.168.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... well, today we find ourselves here, so, a few years late... yes, it is true, that we are late, but with a lot of nerve to pull this law forward and, yes, to process it urgently, because we understand that it would be necessary precisely for this, because we have been waiting too long for it and the sector many years ago to ask it. That's why our urgency in this case. Just as we would also support the urgency, if we only went from here, therefore, to solve the problems that we have also been dealing with for many years in the matter of the stability and dignity of the workers in the sector. We would also give support, to the urgency to fix this problem. But even so, there are a few months when we can work together, a few months when we can also present papers, a few months long enough, when we hear them. And that we support this urgency doesn't mean we're 100 percent in agreement with this bill, but what we want to do is work it out and work it out. And today we're going to expose our general and private view of this bill and what we're worried about. We are concerned that this profound reform that we are presenting with this bill of law, therefore, serves to continue with the current style of commercialization of the public university. If we can share and share that we need to improve governance and autonomy, for example, by changing the composition of social councils to make them more social and not capital, as has often happened; by improving the democracy of universities giving more participation in the study. We don't think we need to share that the university needs to be more flexible and adaptable to compete. This is not its function and it only favors public-private competition, always benefiting this second. We need to take advantage of these changes that we can now do to governance to make a more transparent and democratic system, where the community, as well as the researcher, can participate in the strategic definition of how research is focused in this country. Moreover, we need to put emphasis on the stability of the research staff, but also on the technical and support, in order to put an end to the precarious work of the sector. And for us, the key points of this are four, which I'm going to degracate at least now. The first is transparency and good governance. Apart from the governing bodies of each centre, the inter-departmental council – CIRI – is established, therefore, which is basically between councils, between departments, but which, in our opinion, we could also take advantage of the approval of this law to finish adapting and talking, for example, about its composition, or even, no? , of the function of elaboration and approval of the Catalan strategy of open science, which could not only be done in this field, but also count with experts and that they do not come only on the proposal of the own councils, but also of the own sector. I mean, these organs can get better. It is also intended to create two more organs: the Coricat and the Mecenatge Council. The Coricat, therefore, would be merely the most alderman organ of the scientific community to the policies of the Generalitat, which does not seem to us people ill. And in any case, the Board of Mecenatge is the one that gives us the most doubts. It is understood that it would be the regulator of the mecenatge actions that would run through the search system. And this one does worry us because we think we're going to have to work out more and define well what it means to mecenatge and change the way private people and foundations give money to research. Depending on this, in our view, is a danger to the system, and allowing it in some specific cases may be fine, because above all it can bring socialization of the research, but it can never decide the strategy or the research lines that will be empowered, when we hear it. Organs and expert committees may also be set up to decide how the country's search is managed. But all of these must be transparent and elected as democratically as possible, ensuring that each university's research vice-rectors, professional colleges, research centres and part, obviously, under direct parliamentary control. Our understanding does not call us, therefore, entrepreneurs or large corporations in these decision-making bodies. And it doesn't just have to define short- and long-term strategies and lines of action, but explain and socialize with maximum transparency how and where money is spent on research. The second point is research at the 100_per_cent public university. We are concerned that the same level of public research in universities and private companies is being developed, they understand that it gives more importance to competitiveness criteria and external assessments, with the creation of excellence credentials, under indicators of the AQU that are not specified elsewhere. The governance of the Catalan research system at the scientific level, the Coricat, is also subordinated to experts appointed only for the Government. The PhD students begin to carry out doctoral theses in companies, so the research can still be more cost-effective. And, at the level of finance, which is also a matter of concern to us and which we have dealt with differently here, it is not very clear whether there will be an increase in the assumption of the university system or the research system. You're telling us about 2.2. We would want 3, but there is a lot left, therefore, in the hands of our own universities and it is not clear how the presupposition system will go. And obviously, in addition to funding, in order to be able to access it, you will have to hold the credentials of excellence, won't you? Private universities..., we are also concerned that they may be able to access public competitions for strategic research funding, because obviously, in our view, it is a difficult task for public authorities, because it is usually only necessary to give priority to profitability and infrastructure, which only helps private universities. Also, therefore, should the public investment that will stop these private sectors of the research say, therefore, spin-off, for example, remains minority, and it does make it follow a circular and transparent pattern, where the public effort is reversed in the Administration, and the reinvestment in the search system at the same time as in society, and not so alone in investors that ultimately exploit, therefore, the nine enterprises that arise. And speaking of finance, therefore, the law also has to promote, in our view, a plan of calls to finance research projects in public centres, independently of those of the Spanish state. The third issue is job stability, which I have not spoken about before. We, from the CUP, bet for science as a knowledge generation engine and also a stable occupation and public benefit engine. Science always with people in the center, and that's not how it is right now, so this objective is very clear: it has to be established, professionalize the figure of the researcher, the researcher, the technician or the support staff. We understand the legal and competitive limitations in this sense. It's obvious – and this was also said before – but the law should be brave and try to find the formula to create stable places, or as long as it lasts for researchers, technicians and research support in all areas. The difficult situation of the associates is not a new thing, we all know it, it is the tip of the iceberg of a difficult problem, therefore, of stable occupation in the search system and universities, and we have to go working because all these sectors, but also the research groups, have the ability, for example, to maintain a template with indefinite contracts, right? , enclosing postdoctoral level researchers, specialist technicians, management staff and research support, and, after all, follow-up staff, right? All fish are very important in this gear. And finally, the future strategy and evaluation criteria. We understand that we can't only finance very high-profile research groups with publications in large impact journals, that we do see, therefore, that many groups value it as a very positive fact, but we think we need to go further and we need to work on a stable and powerful search network with our own agenda and that we don't go beyond hot topics and modes. That is to say, the evaluation criteria system needs to be changed because it is considered something more than the impact factor to the magazines where they are published, but it is actually an analysis of the research group's contribution to the camp. This reform is key, for us, in the investigation that is not technological or health care, since in other sciences, such as humanities or social sciences, the impact factors measured as now, with international scales, do not feel much of a time, and they end up undervalued. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.169.0	Then, on behalf of the parliamentary group of En Comú Puem, has the word Mr Lucas Ferro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.170.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies... There is an anomaly in this whole debate, and we approve today, in 2021, that the law of science begins to walk, and it basically does so because the State, in Article 158, recognizes the own search of the Government of Catalonia, which finances with propitious funds, as an exclusive competence, and the joint search of Catalonia as a competition shared with the different agents and also with the joint search of the State. Clearly, Article 172, which speaks of the competence of the Generality in the field of universities, has since 2003, and the conjunction of the search system does not have it, and it seems obvious to me that here there has been a legal void and an institutional laissez-faire that goes on for years, and therefore we celebrate as a position that at least this legislature, even though it is divided or comes after what it was playing, we already have a eraser of the law of science. And, therefore, a law – and it has already been said, and I don't know, I will try not to be very repeated with the previous discussions – that what it does is, let's say, regulate and order a system that has grown up without a legal model that the emperor, that is diverse, that is plural, and that needed some sort of orderly exercise of knowing where we are, of what objectives we want for the future and how we want to regulate this sector, and who we are – and I think that this is a central element in this discussion – the key agents of the search to our country. And every time you complete a map that's needed between you. Universities, which have since 2003, and research centres and the entire research and innovation ecosystem in Catalonia, are two mons that work differently and have different dynamics, but that need and interrelation; and that need and interrelation, especially because the universities in Catalonia follow a search engine in our country, and therefore these two mons work more or less coordinatedly is also key to the future of our country's research. And we haven't presented the whole thing, and the first thought, obviously, is that we haven't presented it. The first is because we consider it a necessary law. We've said before, there's a legal void, there's a competitive void, we'd say, in Catalonia in terms of research, development and innovation, and this will fill that void and put a little order and purpose in the sector. Then there are some elements that he proposes to me that seem positive, that is, let's say, to have the ability to design a system of continuous evaluation of the joint research, also of the university, which is done in Catalonia, and to plan and finance from concrete and defined objectives. We believe that this is a continuing assessment model that seems positive to us. And we also believe, and it seems to me that there is a refugee from sectarianism, and we make it clear, and that there is a combination of the research that is done in Catalonia, which is owned by the Government of Catalonia, the CSIC, which is owned by Europe, all agents who search and develop Catalonia have a legal framework that is common and have common objectives, and this law must also be an instrument that facilitates this relationship. There are some elements in which we disagree, but all the discrepancies that we have for ourselves did not give rise to an issue in totality, because we share the object of the law and share the need for this law, and therefore we will work on it on the basis of partial statements. Yes, there is an element of general fall, which, moreover, is mentioned in the statement of motius and which is somehow collected in the law, which is the model of the law that has been sorted. For us it was important that it wasn't an excessively exhaustive law, that you didn't end up building a straitjacket on a sector that hasn't just been built in a messy way, but that it's also a fairly flexible, plural sector – it's about industries, it's about peppers, it's about tech parks, it's about universities – and, therefore, we don't want a law that somehow was a straitjacket on the sector's joint, but you have a few tiny ones, right? , coordination and recognizance at the pool of search agents. And, therefore, this way of legislating also includes the need and the positive. And it does one thing that we share, but we would like to go there more, which is to establish a few minimums of investigative staff rights. And why do we say we want to go further? Especially for two reasons. First, because the precariousness that the sector has experienced has been unfair – and we believe that there is no debate about this – but also because it is a structural problem of research, especially of university research, that we will find ourselves in our own years. In Catalonia, a large part of our country's dozen researchers will retire in their own deu years. These dozen researchers today are the ones who put their curriculum into competitive projects, those who make us add up and win a lot of competitive projects, because there are people who direct them and collect them with research curricula of decades of experience and therefore have very high scores. These great professionals will leave the system in their own two years, because many of them are retired, and we don't have well built stores. And we don't have them because the sector's precariousness in the end has caused us, first of all, that we have very precarious, temporary plants that have not managed to stabilize at the university and make continuous research for many years, and therefore, there has been no networking between the generation that is retired and the next generation that is searching. And the second is that a lot of people have left the country, and there are important resumes, that are going to be this generation that would fill with the people that will leave to not lose competitive capacity, but that is not in our country and that will not return if we do not correct the conditions of precariousness that forced them to leave. Because, the band that many of them, therefore, already have life outside and such – and some will return and others will not –, if we are not able to offer decent conditions, will be very difficult for us to recover this generation. And recovering all this generation, which today is precariously at the universities and which has gone away, is key so that the search for our country does not fall in the next two years, when there is the generational replete in our universities. And, therefore, it's an element that we want to focus on. Therefore, we fix four objectives in this law. The first, sort the sector and set up key agents, objectives, evaluation processes – we think that's what the law already does; we can work some things out. The second objective is to stabilize and revalue the scientific work to guarantee the rights of what we are investigating in Catalonia today, but also to enable the thousands of workers of science to return from this country. The third is to open a discussion about excellence. We – and Alice's companion said – share that the reading that is about excellence in this law is a little concrete reading. To protect projects of excellence in Catalonia, obviously, but excellence is not something I want to see with genius. I mean, geez, we have three or four projects that are great because they're led by people who are great and they're excellent, and we'll give them more money and more finance because they're still the same or more great than they are now. Excellence is also the result of constant work, a stable search structure that needs to be strengthened, and that needs to be influenced by many other ways. And, sometimes, situate excellence as a starting point and not as a finishing point for cartoonism, including. And we spend all day talking about excellence in search of Catalonia and we don't know that the bases of that excellence are too precarious and more unstable than we think. And, therefore, on this we also want to bring some elements. And the fourth element, which for us seems central to the debate on the search for Catalonia..., there are two, but one we cannot work on the law. The first thing we won't work on the law will be the assumptions, that we think it's been a central debate all these years and that we're paying attention to how you solve it. But the fourth would be the role of innovation in Catalonia. And we believe that innovation is already very much aware of the great weakness of the knowledge economy in Catalonia, and that we have very serious problems in moving research and development into product areas. Despite the fact that we have obvious challenges in the mix of the productive sectors – in food, in agriculture, in digitalisation, in energy transition – in a fotimer of the productive sectors we have problems that require innovation, research and development, and, in turn, this last transfer of knowledge, which we feel to the whole set of the chain, we are unable to do, and we believe that this deserves, let us say, a wider and more particular deal in this law. And, therefore, we will also be working on papers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.171.0	Thank you very much. Then there is the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.172.0	MPs, MPs, councillors... consolidate science as a structural element of our community. I believe that this could possibly be the sentence that I am summarizing, in some way, of that which this law raises or that which the Government raises. Surely, this is also the will of many, many of whom we are here, and even if there are differences of opinion about this law, I think it is an initiative that, as has been said here, has been expected in California for too long. It's true that we have a law that we don't like at all, that's the one from the universities of 2003, but that could regulate some part of the research, but the whole research system that we have in Catalonia, that in one part..., and I won't always talk, say, unfortunately, I think that in one part it's good and it's structured... And I, in fact, in many meetings, not only in this legislature, but in other legislatures, so we have defended it and we have also sought, therefore, that it can be reproduced in other parts of Spain. So this part or this world needed proper regulation and order, and I think this can do it. We also understand science as an inclusive concept that must integrate the will to generate knowledge and make it aware that it is the transformation core and that it is the center of transformation of our product model. That is to say, we believe in a law that serves as a tool to boost research, to curb the backwardness that we are painting in Catalonia in areas – and it has already been said, and it is true – as innovation. The return to the product model of the effort we make to the system through the knowledge transfer also considers it essential and basic. The current search, development and innovation system in Catalonia is shaped, as was also said, by a combination of public and private agents. I know there's been talk here..., and I think we need to put this concept on the table; for us it's very important that this is the reality, that it's a bunch of public and private agents. Without the private part of the search model – and that is well known to all those who are managing it –, without the private part, we cannot have a system like we have, which can in some cases be a system, say, positive that provides us, so good part, say, of finding..., of searching our system. The system has worked on different occasions in this way. In fact, the search centres must also be centres of capital attraction and sources of different backgrounds. This one has to make sure..., we don't make it very clear, that you do, but you have to make sure mechanisms to get European foundations – this is happening, but I think you have to make sure, you have to keep it in some way – state and private, as I said before. The sponsorship, which has also been discussed and appears to the law as the recognition formula of private contribution, must be accompanied by measures, among others, such as prosecutors, to encourage it. And here we don't see adequate measures either. I believe that fiscal measures to encourage this sponsorship are also essential. From the group of agents that was talking or talking about the world of research, I think one of the most modifiable or the most to deal with in many cases is that of the university sphere. It is true that this law that I mentioned earlier in 2003 favored a certain research in the field of university, but we need to reduce its..., or at least make it more dynamic, make a more dynamic and flexible transformation of the research within the university, reducing its rigidity and improving its transparency and often autonomy, and sometimes also certain independence from political power, which I believe is important for us to take into account practically everything. We need to get closer to the company... as we also ask for professional training, in the area of the company, in the area of product fabric. I think this is basic and these synergies are all desirable and we need to work them in this sense. And also for us, and this for us is basic as the liberal project that we have defended in many other communities and we also defend Europe, we must consider that this law of science also has as its center a suitable model of technological transfer and knowledge. Catalunya is part, in fact, of the Cervera network that promoted Ciutadans in 2017 and 18, under the assumption. In fact, that network, therefore, was successful, and a good part of the technology transfer centers of all Spain are part of it, and here we have Eurecat and LEITAT, which are also part of it. But I think we're far from being able to make this transfer to the real fabric of ours, say, production in Catalonia, which are small businesses where we practically don't arrive with this transfer. That is to say, we can do research, we can develop this research, but then we don't apply it directly to medium-sized and large enterprises. So, I think this is a challenge that, while it's true that this is already possible to expand the scope of this law a lot, I think it's essential and basic that we take it into account. Because in the end..., and this reflection we also have to do from Citizens; I think that some of a liberal party is basic to say that this change, this system, this system, this has to make that there is also a change in the product model. That is to say, if we apply this law and this technology transfer to small businesses properly, we can make these companies grow; this will make them more competitive and also make them capable or enable them to control everything that the market... We have talked many times about the value chain of any service or product, and this is also better, more employment and better conditions. As the third element, and it has also been mentioned here, we believe that innovation as we understand it is not working in Catalonia. In fact, we've lost places in the innovation arena – and I'm not saying so, the European Commission – in the last few years. And I don't think we see this law either... or at least we'd like to focus very much on this concept. As I said before, we believe that this law must focus above all on the transfer of this research, from this knowledge to society, to the return not only social, but also economic of what we invest in research, and also a very important part will be due to the best of our innovation indexes or taxes. For us innovation is important because in the end innovation is the beginning of entrepreneurial adventures. Therefore, there is another concept such as the entrepreneurship that we also have to work on. It is obvious that these are concepts that must not be directly in this law, but we have at least to define where we find ourselves, where we can place this law. There's also been talk about this, which is important. I said before we wanted a law to order this whole system of search for governance organs. The governing bodies at the end are interdepartmental coordination bodies. I think we could be more creative and also introduce into these governance bodies, say, scientific experts and all those personal or all those who are really protagonists in the search for Catalonia. Those who are out of the most political system. I think we could do it: independent organs with a certain capacity. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Time was running out. I think we'll have time to talk a lot about this law, I think it's a law that we support. We must not vote, but let us support your text with many visions. And I think a different view, from our point of view, but we also need to improve a lot with what we have commented on the recovery of talent, that our talent does not go away. We must work to ensure that the working conditions of our workers throughout the search system are adequate. And, finally, I think we need to think about what the reversal will be or how we'll pay for it, all that. I think it's insufficient. We are still far from the European medium of investment in research and innovation. I say again, I think you're important. And we'll see if we're able to do everything that we're now designing into future assumptions and future actions. More, thanks, deputies and deputies, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.173.0	Then, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Alejandro Fernández has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.174.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, add to the greetings to Joan Gómez Pallarès and to the rest of the authorities and agents of the world of innovation in Catalonia today present in this Parliament. And a first consideration: we face this debate with constructive will. Indeed – it has been said here – science has always been extremely important in Catalonia and, in a relatively recent past, here things have been done well, and I have no chance to recognize this fact. Twenty years ago, Andreu Mas-Colell, in this matter, did the right thing. Certainly, it was time, with the complicity of a government of the People's Party, between the period 2000-2003, that created the conditions favorable to a Catalonia leader in innovation. The same Arcadi Navarro – former secretaries of the Government in the matter – summed up in an opinion article a while ago the keystones of that success: flexible contracting centres, scientific competitiveness, creation of the Catalan Research and Advanced Studies Institution – the ICREA –, and programs – like the Serra Húnter – with the aim of making the best teachers for Catalan universities: flexible contracting, competitiveness, making the best. I know a lot of neoliberal mass can sound, but that's what works. Also in the realm of public policies, paradoxically as it may seem. Well, the success of that stage, even in the year 2017, allowed the Search centers to join fifty-six_per_cent of the European calls in the framework of the Horitzó 20-20 programme at the conjunct of Espanya. Also make reference to these data the counselor. But the poorly done work, from the beginning of the bogery that for many things has meant the process, begins to have very worrying consequences. And I'm not saying, I'm saying you see much more authority than not a server. Yesterday, the same Andreu Mas-Colell published an article to La Vanguardia in reference and said that Catalonia has been surpassed by the Community of Madrid in the innovation index of the European Union. It's true that the difference is minimal. He also made reference to the fact that the difference is minimal, of course, but leadership has been lost. That's indisputable. Nor that the difference is minimal, is lost leadership. And that was unimaginable a few years ago. We are ahead of a lost decade – as Aleix Pons, of the Cotec Innovation Foundation. « Two late governments of Catalonia, catastrophic, see Jordi Camí, of the Biomedical Research Park of Barcelona. Extensive reviews and that arrive even by the rector of the University of Barcelona, Joan Guàrdia, among others. I've made a statement about four people, I could refer to many more, all of them little suspected of agreeing with me – President of the People's Party of Catalonia – a political message to do the guitar here today at the councillor. That's what they think. And, Counselor, you should take note of what the scientific community thinks about what happened here in Catalonia in the past few years. Well, this should serve to regain leadership, and from here our constructive attitude today in this debate, and also when it's being done, when it's progressing in your debate. Some fundamental premises such as criteria of things that could be improved, some referring to the initial wording that today is debated and others as more generic considerations about the state of science in Catalonia. I'll do it myself. U. Co-existence between research centres and universities. This can be better profiled than the text says, I think it can be better. Two. Real use of European funds. We're very concerned, the scientific community, too. Mass opacitate the governments of Catalonia and Madrid too, but here too; in Madrid and Catalonia. I know that the Government of Spain has more responsibility in this matter, but here too we are experiencing episodes of opacity that concern us. Three. Technological transfer and economic impact, has also been explained in previous interventions. Let's keep going when we're talking about patent classifications and publications, much worse in transference. It is one thing, in short, that it does not only happen in Catalonia, it is a sign of the shortcomings of the conjunction of science in Spain, but also that here it happens to us. Four. Institutional cooperation. Can Catalan science re-lead? Of course, we have them in envelopes, but it is never going to be after the permanent conflict of the Government of Catalonia with everyone. A government of Catalonia stalled with everyone, this is impossible to allow the Catalan scientific system to progress. Five. They correspond to the Government of Catalonia a more intense diffusion of scientific excellence in Catalonia. That's something that's said a little bit and people have explained to me that they're dedicated to it. Catalonia is a broadcast by the Government of Catalonia that is enthusiastic about certain cultural expressions, which seems very good to me. It is an enthusiastic media broadcast of certain political questions, which, as you can imagine, these do not please me so much. But it's true that there's never been any dissemination of the scientific successes that Catalonia has had, and that does give prestige, not Waterloo's ways; that does give prestige to Catalonia, and that's why, you, the government, never talk about it. And sis. There is a clearer proposal for baseline funding for the research centres. The European centres, like Max Planck's, arrive at a noranta_per_cent; we are in a twenty_per_cent. I already know we're not going to get to a noranta_per_cent, because that would be, in other words, blowing up pigeons, but, you know, a middle point, because what we have right now is a real misery, and it can't compete in these conditions. Faces these six considerations, in a later one, which is more strictly personal: between the years 2011 and 2015 I had the opportunity to be a spokesman to the Congress of the Deputies of my party in this matter, in science and innovation, and I had the opportunity to visit many centres of innovation throughout Spain, but above all in Catalonia. I know them reasonably well and I know they expect us to be responsible and a serious support, and so we can't decimate them, this time, no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.175.0	Next, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Catalonia, the deputy Mr Ramon Tremosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.176.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honourable Counselor, honourable Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Benvolguda Alicia Romero, I will also remind you a few times in today's intervention. You see, it is a pleasure for me to be here today speaking and representing the Junts group for Catalonia in this debate of a preliminary draft law of the science of Catalonia that we hope to culminate in the next few months and, therefore, that it can benefit the entire scientific community and the search system of Catalonia. Also especially to the authorities who are present today at the hemicicle..., we recover normality once more than we go beyond the cove-19; that's also very good news. Well, I could talk to them, therefore, about how far this law of the science of Catalonia does not have a repeated will of the Parliament of Catalonia, manifested in various laws, especially the Law 7/2011, to equip us with a model suitable for science. This law does not apply to the exclusive competence of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, article 158. This exclusive competence is competing with the competence of the State as well, but we have a constitutional doctrine that gives freedom of initiative, both to the central government and to the Catalan government, to push them forward. And in this sense, therefore, I could also refer to the fact that the law of the science of Catalonia, when it opens, will complete the system..., the map of the law of knowledge activity in Catalonia – that we already have the law of education and the law of universities–; therefore, it is a very important step. And, in this sense, I am very grateful for all the interventions of all the groups; it is very good news that there is no mention of totality, and that we value it very positively, and, for our part, there is a great deal of support so that this is a truly enriching debate, for the benefit of the entire scientific, academic and university community in Catalonia. And, for what it does to me, therefore, that I was advising the previous legislature for two months, I would especially like to value that different parliamentary groups from the opposition to the previous legislature did that, for example, the law of the EPAs or the law of economic and administrative facilitation obtained in 119 and 106 votes respectively. So, so, I think that's a good sign. The month of December passed, at the last plenary, is true that we went very quickly, but the urgency that we had made us move forward in a great consensus. And, in this sense, it is worth remembering, for example, that when the government approved the national pact for the society of knowledge, therefore, some aspects that were presented in this chamber, whether they were common or the PSC, were approved unanimously. And it is with this spirit with which we today, from Junta to Catalunya, want to extend our hand to all opposition groups – to all opposition groups – so that this law is in the interests of the entire university and research system in Catalonia. Well, Congresswoman Romero has made reference to the emergency procedure; and in this sense, we, after evaluating, not only from Juntes, but also from Esquerra and CUP, which is the majority of fifty-two percent in this legislature, we understood that precisely because we are so many years old, let us say it, both the universities, as well as some Members, as well as the investigators, giving back to this law, we understand that we can... the situation, the debate is ripe as it is now to make a rapid transfer of this law. An emergency procedure means to hide terms, not to delete them; therefore, all the items that are to be presented can be presented, all the appearances that are to be proposed, among a reasonable quantity, can be substantiated. Therefore, for our part, there will be no limitation in this sense, will there not? To reduce terms does not mean to reduce debates, nor does to reduce the number of issues, means to go more quickly; because, of course, I don't know if you, common and PSC, have the..., I don't know if you feel the same as we feel in this other band on the side of the hemisphere: for example, maybe from here six_months President Aragonès is disqualified for a court; we hope that it won't be that way, but he could pass. I mean, when... this law of science would already be approved if President Torra hadn't been disqualified. I repeat, huh? But for me, it's an important phrase: if President Tora hadn't been disqualified, this would have entered the generation month, because we were very mature, because he had passed all the procedures. I have here the documents that I have passed: approval of the preliminary memorandum, elaboration of the general memorandum, memory of impact assessment, preliminary legal report, procedure of interdepartmental consultation, hearings and public information, and approval of the opinion of the Council of Economic and Social Work of Catalonia. So, I was three weeks away from being introduced, this law, from having entered this chamber, and we would have approved it, put it down... by March-April, we'd already have it running. There's been a disqualification and there can be no more. And when we said: "This doctrine Torra – so many people looked at another side – "will also apply to the groups that govern in Madrid..., now we have seen that it has passed, and last week there was a very intense crisis of government, between PSOE and Podemos, stop that a Member of Podemos has been disqualified for something that he had done when he was not a Member, of which there has been no proof, but which served to get him out. And so good I'm wrong and it's the last time this happens in the Spanish State. But, well, in this band, I mean, we're not in a normal situation. Fifty-two per cent of the voters who went to the elections in this country, at the last elections, also have this feeling. And maybe, in the proper elections, here's a sixty per cent of independent MPs. Maybe not. Or maybe I do. Because, let's say, com deia Camilo José Cela, in question of separatisms, were always many more separatists than separatists. And in Madrid there's a lot of separators. So, so, in this sense, we understand that the debate is ripe enough, at all levels, huh? ... of some Members who have been in this chamber for years, who follow this theme, of the scientific and academic community, as if we could proceed with a certain speed for what we do to all the processes that we have to endure in this..., to culminate successfully in the approval of this law. Well, then, I also had some notes on some of the comments that were made here, because they're actually at the bone spring, right? That is to say, for me there is no rational explanation that Catalonia today has its position in the field of research, because we are a 0.1_percent of the world's population and we generate the u percent of the world's scientific activity. This has no rational explanation, because Catalonia is an atrophied country from the point of view of the public sector, which is so important in the economy of a country. Guillem López Casasnovas or Jacint Ros Hombravella 20 years ago wrote: "We pay taxes as a social-democratic country, we pay public expenditure as a liberal country. They're underfunded. And when Madrid grows up in innovation, it's because it's all Spanish; not because Catalonia lost – here come more companies, we generate more scientific production... –, just because it's all Spanish. Do you know what percentage of Extremadura's university graduates are going to Madrid to work? It has two digits and is very high: fifty_per_cent. Madrid grows in volume, but because it's emptying everything it's got three hundred miles to the curb. He's not our model. But that's what's there. And, in this sense, we were talking about university autonomy fifteen days ago, and Andreu Mas-Collell, who was here a while ago, wrote an article about the worrying LOSU and the decrees on the elimination of degrees, and so..., he was talking about "countercurrent authority, right? I mean, this government so progressive that we have in Madrid, that maybe it won't be there for a while, or for a while, so you could do the different things, but so much good you do, right? Why in many of the questions of teacher aging, retention of young talent, which we share, huh? – and in this, with Congressman Lucas Ferro, totally agreed – so part of the solution is also in Madrid, right? And so, for me, it has this aspect of not rational explanation that, despite the fact that the institutional and fiscal framework is not the best, therefore, that the Catalan economy still remains excellent and giving these exhibitions of excellence is a theme that we have to try to take great care of and improve it. And, obviously, the assumptions were also linked to what we could do. Constellera Geis, therefore, has also claimed a jump in this very presupposition. The year 2010 the premise of Teaching..., of Research and Universities was the five-cent of the presumption of the Generality. This fell to 4.2_per_cent. The National Knowledge Society Pact draws a path to recovery from this five-per-cent percentage, which is as good as it gets later and later; so good we can give it a very important boost in this process, that we will do the next few weeks, from the premise, and so good all the groups collaborate there. Therefore, therefore, with many gain to start this debate. Let us hope, from Junts, that their thoughts, with all the shortcomings they have identified, that they may be right; let us wait for them to enrich the text and to make the best law of the science of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.177.0	And finally, and on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mr Ernest Maragall.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.178.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. MPs and MPs..., counselor, thank you very special. It is well that the science bill is the first bill that this new Republican Generality has arrived in this Parliament. That's quite all right. And, of course, we also have a lot to say with the group, like everybody else, huh? Like everyone else we've talked about here and those who want to talk about it outside this Parliament, over there, in the country, far from their processing. We must, therefore, first of all, welcome the work done, which has enabled us to come to this proposal, which will enable us, therefore, to make concrete the democratic, social, economic and feminist transformation proposed to us by President Aragonès. This transformation, without science, is not done, it is not done. And that's why we need to recognize this compromise in this first law we have on the table in Parliament. In this camp, and I believe that it has also emerged far from the interventions, the reality has gone far ahead of the regulation. That's why we need the law, too. In fact, we are years old doing the debate of this law, a debate planned, the sector, the conjunction of the system, the interior of the succeeding government, the succeeding governments, in this very Parliament... So we are prepared, eh? Romero, don't worry; we're prepared with envelopes to take this debate and do it well, and to do it without precipitation and with efficiency of parliamentary procedure; that's what we'll do, huh? Well, speaking of science isn't clear. So I'd like to speak clearly with us here today, on this first opportunity. In addition to being urgent and necessary, let's say everything, this bill is far from being the science bill we want as a country. Not because we can't or can't do it from the government or from this Parliament; because it can't be, because Catalonia's ambition in this land very explicitly doesn't fit into the caps where the Spanish State wants our ambition to fit in. And Catalonia's ambition has gone far beyond our powers and the maximum possible regulation. In Catalonia, science gives us a return to society, and you already have a lot of opportunities, so to speak, huh? How did you end up, too? I won't repeat the data you just gave us in your first presentation the counselor. Spectacular and explicit prowess. So much good for all sectors of our economy and society, as much as research and science does. But we are faced with an example that I think is uplifting, and that I believe that, in part, Mr. Tremosa, is the rational explanation that you asked: it is an example of state-society complicity, what happened in the science of this country, with public initiative as a factor of decision, huh? And I think this has to be remembered and proclaimed. In Catalonia, science sends us a clear message of how we can transform, create, build a country, including in circumstances of competitive and economic obligation as defined by our present. What Catalonia has done with science until now, in the last 20 years, twenty-five years, is the best evidence of what we want and will do in the future if we apply with full freedom and responsibility the criteria of intelligent summation of resources and capabilities from institutions and from the same society. That's to say, if we've been with all the consequences. This return that makes us science has not been the result of chance; it is the result of work, a long-term compromise that has allowed us to transform Catalonia into one of the most successful search systems in Europe, and, to date, doubtless, the most powerful in the whole of the State, facing insecurities, seeking exclusions from the uniformity wall and centralism of the State, defunct from the centralizing tradition, bureaucracy, hierarchical, endogenous and resisting internationalization, against openness, flexibility and mestisage that requires any search system. Before this, Catalonia has aspired to a suitable model of research with four bases, which, given the need for virtue, have allowed us to push. First people, after projects, we have decided – i.e., to venture talent that assures us the capture of projects – ; great scientific infrastructures that anchor the search to the territory; lean Administration, Light Administration, flexible, to facilitate the academic pocket, and encourage its creativity. And all this with a principle of autonomy always at risk, but always encouraged. People and not projects, scientific infrastructures, light administration, autonomy; these are the four points that have allowed us to build a model of excellence search. We have also listened to the data of heritage with what we count today, the council explained to us in its first intervention, in this land, in terms of centers, equipment, universities, etc. Well, what does the law of science have to do with this whole system? I think it can be reduced..., it can be summed up in three considerations: to legislate the locks, to consolidate the singularity, to draw a horizon of the future. It is clear that a law of science with all its powers could focus not only on drawing this horizon, but on concreteizing it and defining it with absolute ambition. It is not this scenario that we are in; at the front we have what the Spanish law can suppose in terms of re-centralisation and reinforcement of the state model of science: bureaucratic, exhausted, etc., and at the back we have consciousness, the memory of what the lawfare of the State against the Generality of Catalonia has assumed for scientific institutions. No fem victimism; we simply find that the constant threat of legal action has reinforced even more the administration of science in Catalonia. This law is also a recognizance of the path used so far. Do not correct; add. It does not correct errors; it confirms and reinforces the uncertainties. Scientific activity cannot be regulated by those who regulate infrastructure bidding; it is neither the same nor requires the same. Much further from the reality that we sometimes experience or might get from reading accounts union reports, it would seem that they tell us that search centers are a source of mismanagement. It's all the opposite, huh? The centres complement scrupulously..., the syndics complement scrupulously with their obligation to prove whether the Public Administration of Catalonia complements with financial and accounting legality, and that is the problem here, in the dark, between a legality designed for the Public Administration and the investigative reality of our centres. In time to consolidate, therefore, this singularity, the law also seeks, effectively, protection, as it was said and repeated today; seeks to protect itself from state legislation, which we run the risk, as we were warned by Consteller Geis and the rectors in committee a long time ago, of falling back into over-regulation of university activity and into an obsolete and old-fashioned functional model. Well, an essential part of this law also consists of, and I hope you agree, counsel, to approach the coexistence and relationship between the Search Centers and the universities. Reading the text, there is a certain risk, a possible interpretation that this coexistence is solved by – as you might hear – matching the Search Centers. It's one of the points; I think we deserve to work harder on board and commission. We'll do it, and I'm sure we'll find the right answer. The law establishes..., deploys all the stability in the national pact for the knowledge society and creates it, strengthening central structures such as the Interdepartmental Research and Innovation Commission and the Catalan Research and Innovation Council. Phone numbers. He also explained himself. We don't have enough with this, with all this, we go there, we want to protect, but we also want to deploy, grow, give legitimate ambition to our search and innovation system. We are aware of the difficulties that any draft law passes to Catalonia; we will have to deal with them. It is not an excuse to legislate on the defensive, on the contrary, we must be more ambitious than ever: we must continue to draw a republic model in all spheres, also in that of science. We need to build on this law, obviously also, the reconstruction or, say, the transformation of the Catalan economy, and we are talking about industry, sustainability, competition with added value, and not labour costs, etc. Joseph Stiglitz, Nobel Laureate of Economics said: "The authentic wealth of a country and consequently the key to increasing productivity and standard of living is knowledge, learning and advances in science and technology. This is certainly one of the objectives that we will have to settle down, advise, in this parliamentary task: to strengthen, expand, make visible and efficient the bridge and the essential transit routes between basic research, applied research and innovation. We have to build this virtuous triangle once and for all, and we have to do it now. Most likely, the clear definition of this bridge of these circuits will require further and complementary legislation that develops, from the point of view of the innovation of the economic system, the same concept, completes the bridge and the unbeatable and permanent face. The Parliament of Catalonia will not disapprove of the opportunity offered to us by the Government. We're gonna have to deal with this law with ambition and speed. But this celerity will not be excused to limit the debate. We protect ourselves before the threat of functioning, strengthen the first contract figures, equip the researchers with stability and security, pull out the bottleneck of administrative legislation, both Spanish and, in part, Catalan. Let's look straight ahead. We are still more focused on transfer and innovation mechanisms. We provide centers and universities with the most autonomy in their management. We are, therefore, responsible for our pocket and for our responsibility today. It is up to us, all the groups with representation in this chamber, to avoid low-flying politics and to conjure us up to ensure that from this Parliament comes a law of science that is turned into a key from a greener, more inclusive and wiser economy and society; a smarter society and a more equipped country to hear the complexity of the world in which we live. And stronger to rule it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.179.0	So, the debate is over, and bearing in mind that no papers have been presented to the whole, this initiative will continue its processing. We shall suspend the session until four o'clock in the afternoon. Let me remind you that from a quarter of four there is the prediction of the creation of some commissions, including the one we transferred yesterday on mental salvation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.180.0	Let's start the late session with the full debate on the bill's proposal for the internalisation of health transport. [[Law proposal for internalisation of health transport (debate of totality)]] [[202-00018/13]] In accordance with Rule 116.2 of the Rules of Procedure, to present this legislative initiative has the word, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - A New Cycle for Guanyar, the deputy Mrs Eulàlia Reguant, for a maximum of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.181.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. I wanted to start with a preview: today was the end of the trial of "Lledoners' new ones". We are pleased that six of the new accused have been acquitted, but it is essential that the Generality withdraws from all charges, that it ends once and for all the double penalty. Yes, today they have withdrawn from six; but there are three remaining to whom they ask for five years. Therefore, a hug to all the companies of "the new Lledoners". [[Greetings.]] And to continue, a greeting to the health transport companies and workers who are out today. This morning, Mr. Argimon, you did not stop by to greet the workers of 061, who are in an indefinite position and who are carrying months waiting for you to meet them and today you have passed through the front and have neither stopped nor greeted. We understand that, despite the fact that they are outsourced workers, the last responsibility lies with the Health Council. And that, therefore, it would be good that at some point you are addressing these workers who have been claiming better in their working conditions for years and who have been claiming that health transport becomes public management in the hands of the SEM. Because public services and, therefore, the catal public sector is the backbone because any society can take positive action with regard to removing the obstacles that a profoundly unequal socioeconomic reality poses and that many times – mass – expresses discrimination. Sanitation and many other expressions of public service in society cannot be heard without the impulse of public power. Health transport is transformed, on many occasions, into the first gateway to the health system. Public, universal and free public health transport is therefore a determining factor for quality public health. The public sector is also an economic and social motor, both direct and indirect. Surely the expression of the crisis of the covid-19_has made the import of public services and the need for a strong Catalan public sector to be seen in the most cruel way. And in this public sector, if there is a key or essential piece of public service, it is the workers and the workers who are part of it. There is no Catalan public sector without workers and workers, because there would be no public sector. And there can hardly be a public sector of quality based on precarious workers and workers. The management model coordinated for the Servei d'Emergences Médiques, overcoming the previous reality in which health transport was not urgent coordinated for the Servei Català de la Salut, but not the emergency, was not a problem, but a uncertainty. In that, we agree. The joint coordination of emergency and non-emergency is uncertain. What has been a weakness has been the model of management for enterprises deprived of urgent and non-urgent health transport. There is no doubt that the prospects that lead us to see an insufficient, ineffective and harmful management model reality for users and workers are different. We could see the service as it has developed, for most businesses, failing to complete the departures and the contract that attributed it to them. We could express it in various ways, but one of the ways we use to express it is quantitatively, after analyzing the data that the Health Department itself has facilitated. Increase of 78_percent of user complaints; lack of coordination between central units and territories; use of the assistance system; vehicle fleet envelope and mismanagement of programmed routes. If this, at the same time, is added to the Department of Health's recognition of the penalties imposed on contracting companies, we would simply have, for a period from the end of 2015 until the end of 2018, eighty-eight penalties resulting from sixty-seven shippers, a value of more than €1 million in fines and what this above means to respect the degree of incompliments. And we'd have to make it clear that there aren't all of them in these failures, right? , but it is the sum of those that have derived from it actions by the Department of Salvation. Therefore, we can find much more incompliments, because the irregularities have been and are many more. And when we talk about irregularities, to make it clear what we are talking about, we need to talk about inefficiencies and inefficiencies in the public health transport service managed by private companies that impact or can impact on the health of people and the functioning of the public health system. We also need to talk about a higher level of inequity in the performance of the service, if we compare the different territories of Catalonia. In particular, we can look at the Lands of the Ebro where, in some cases, even the service has been or has been given through taxis or other transport systems for the incapacity of enterprises that manage the service in terms of terms and conditions. But for what it does to the working conditions of workers and workers who serve, we also have to observe or observe low wages, undesirable working rhythms and incomplimentary labour regulations in a systematic manner. These circumstances have forced the unions to summon different waves in the later years, before the multiple incompliments and unbearable working conditions. Here and now we need to make a recognition and a thank you to the workers and to the workers of the system or of the emergency and not urgent health transport, who, beyond the incompliments of business, they and they have developed the public service with the highest professionalism. But this is not the first time that we are talking here in Parliament about the problem of externalisation of health transport. We get here after we've talked about it several times in the last few weeks. There have been questions and follow-up from the council, but there have also been motions, resolutions, long ago. In the eleventh legislature we find motions and resolutions where the government moves forward in the management, ownership and provision of public health transport. Motions and resolutions approved. At the end of its term of office, the Catalan Parliament also approved a motion specifying that the internalisation process for the management of health transport services should have been prepared and that, once the current tenders had been completed, they should have been initiated – if they had not been carried out before – the public administration and provision had been completed. We arrive at the doors of the renewal process of some of these awards. Therefore, once more, incomplete motions. But this legislature, a few months ago, we also approved a motion for the government to internalize the 061 and the health transport – month of July. Therefore, here in the Parliament of Catalonia it was granted that indirect private management had to be completed and moved to public management and provision. Because health transport is a benefit that has to last a long time in a coordinated and integrated way with the functioning of the health system. Because health transport must be carried out by means of procedures and protocols that guarantee the correct order of demand, the use of resources, respect the principle of equality in access and proper and responsible use, and not misuse or misuse. Because, as the portfolio of services common to health transport, for which it does not assist health transport and assisted health transport, for the purpose of access to the provision of health transport in the area of CatSalut, health transport is classified as urgent health transport and non-urgent health transport. Therefore, you have not felt to classify it or intend to manage it separately. Health transport is sorted by this classification, but health transport is one: emergency and non-urgent. There are no separations, because if urgent medical transport is necessary, often, to enter the hospital, medical transport is not necessary to exit the hospital. And because there are entrances there must have been exits. I, therefore, speak of health transport in general. But it is that on February 3rd – to make a little history – in 2014, a management task of the CatSalut was formalized to the public enterprise SEM, with the object of bringing to term the management, coordination, control and follow-up of the health transport service to Catalonia. The SEM, which is already very instrumental, which ended up being signed with CatSalut the management correspondent, for which the first in charge in the second; CatSalut entrusted the SEM with the full management of this public health transport service in Catalonia, as well as the control of the management of the contracts. This second part, we have seen long ago that it has been done insufficiently and often after the irregularities, and not a priori. This 2014 management task was supplemented in 2015 by an addendum, referring to the follow-up of the billing and the subscription of the services, which was extended until December 2015. It is from that moment that contracts were signed between CatSalut, the SEM and private commercial enterprises for the realization of the management of the sanitary transport services in the emergency mode and not urgent; several lots, distributed branches of the territory that, since 2017, have cost or we have paid more than 630_million euros. Between 2015 and 2018 there are penalties of 1_million for irregularities committed by companies. But while CatSalut and the SEM have continued to pay religiously more than 630_million for a service that the own SEM and CatSalut recognize has irregularities and that, moreover, the workers, in a systematic way, have denounced violations of labor rights. These are the elements that we've made reference to now, and we're bringing years into reference, that lead us to bring this proposition of law here. But we also add to it the willingness to exercise expressions of sovereignty, to recover public management as a tool of construction of sovereignty, and the need to bet for the better of the public health transport service that carries, as I say, this law: the internalization of the health transport of Catalonia in urgent and non-urgent manner, of which the public enterprise SEM has the responsibility of CatSalut for the long term management, coordination, control and follow-up, and which is managed, at present, indirectly through private enterprises. This law's processing process started today. We hope to be able to improve it, but we hope above all that no one intends or divides workers – that it is so typical that it is when you see that there are organised workers at the gates of places demanding their rights – and that, above all, everyone makes it clear that it is important to preserve a public health system that is truly universal, that guarantees labor rights, but that guarantees, above all, that everyone has the same conditions of access to a fundamental right as the right to health. And that's what happens because the EMS, because the government, because the councilwoman assumes her responsibility in managing an essential service such as health transportation. And this happens because we commit ourselves in this Parliament once and for all because it is not enough to use the health system to directly and indiscriminately transfer public money to private businesses that they seek with this is to maximize benefits and that they do not take into account the service they are providing. There's two minutes left. I'll spend two seconds to say that I don't think I'm going to answer the Emena group to totality. I will not challenge the extreme right of this Faristol. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.182.0	Next, and for the defense of the totality presented for the VOX Group, has the word María Elisa García, for a maximum time of fifteen minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.183.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in this proposal for a law the members of the CUP propose the internalisation of all health transport services, both urgent and non-urgent, and that it be the Medical Emergency Service, that is, the SEM, the company that takes charge of this task. The SEM! Nothing more and nothing less. Icon, in the last few years, of waste, chanchullos and agency of placement of friends. We can start with how Mr. Adrià Comella places, in 2018, his close friend from Esquerra Republicana, Mr. Antoni Encinas, as manager of the SEM, doctor without any experience in sanitary emergencies and without any notion of management. And how this spends huge amounts of bonus money, expands its high fees with bonuses of up to seventy_ thousand_euros per year, luxury hotels while SEM technicians lacked a sad mask to protect themselves from the covid, buys in the pandemic field hospitals worth 1_ million_euros empty that could never be used and a superfloat of vehicles for their intermediate charges; charges that, by the way, also doubled during his term. Yes, gentlemen of the CUP, we already see where you are going and how you add to red carpet communism and gala parties, and how you intend, with this attempt at internalization, to put your granite sand so that the corrupt system of the Generalitat of Catalonia is perpetuated. In a colloquial way, the only thing they intend to do is make themselves with a piece of cake. But let's start at the beginning, because the truth is that the bill is plagued with inaccuracies, not to call the gross manipulations of reality. You are talking about the failure of non-urgent health transport, because I suppose it will be the one outside Barcelona, right? Let us remember that, in Barcelona, urgent transport with advanced life support, in the city, is already in charge of the SEM. Well, to justify their failure, they're talking about users' complaints. If we refer to the CatSalut, and in particular to the Plaensa survey, published on its website, we are objectively clarified what are the parameters of satisfaction with non-urgent health transport in Catalonia. We can say that, of more than a thousand_quinientes surveyed – which is a statistically significant sample, since the number of transports is around about 2_million_and_average year-on-year –, users of the non-urgent health transport service score overall satisfaction with an eight and a half out of ten, and ninety_per_cent of the respondents say that, if they were able to choose, they would again use the same company to move. But we're on. In the SEM, of the 869 workers there are, eighty_y_five are health care technicians. This accounts for ten_per_cent of all SEM staff workers. Do you know how many high and middle positions there are in this company? Seven_per_cent of all SEM staff. There are the same number of intermediate and senior positions in the SEM as doctors in the coordination centre. Do you consider it an example of effective management? Or do you think it's more like a matching agency to the party that runs it? On the other hand, working in the SEM requires a title of health emergency technician, the famous TES ; previous work experience as a health transport technician in advanced life support units, at least two years, and enabling the driving of urgent vehicles, among others. On the other hand, like any other public work competition, other knowledge is valued, such as knowledge courses of the most frequent emergencies and emergencies in the environment with devices of foreseeable risk and in exceptional situations; courses of techniques of self-protection, active and passive safety; courses of maintenance and use of equipment and logistic material; courses of techniques of support to affected and family in exceptional situations, that is, a specific training that at the end of the month translates into a pay supplement, if we compare it with other technicians of health transport who have not accessed these places. This not only happens in public squares of health transport technicians, it happens in all squares of the public health sector. Thus we see how to access a post of doctor of the ICS is sine qua non requirement training as a specialist via MIR. This requirement is not required to work as a doctor in private or concerted centres. What does this mean? That some are better than others? Well, not necessarily. The only thing that means this is that in order to gain access to certain jobs, the public administration tries to make a training ranquin that normally guarantees objectivity. As you know, until the approval of Royal Decree 836/2012 of 25 May, establishing the technical characteristics, sanitary equipment and the staffing of road health vehicles, there was a legal vacuum in the requirement of the specific qualification of the technicians for the transport of emergencies and emergencies, and many of the workers who were already part of this collective, acceded to the agreement that was granted to them by experience, not by courses. With regard to this point, the law you propose would affect some 5,200 workers. This represents eighty_y_five_per_cent of all workers in private companies engaged in urgent and non-urgent health transport in Catalonia, many of them without the training standards requested by the SEM for the competition of their public employment. Do you intend to equalise all technicians regardless of training, experience or merit, and include them in the SEM agreement, or do you intend to discriminate between first-rate technicians, with a specific salary, and second-time technicians, without training, with a lower salary? On the other hand, there is everything that is not human resources: the mobile fleet and the bases. According to his proposal for a law, article 4 specifies that the SEM and therefore the Generalitat may acquire, if it pleases you, the goods that these private companies have used to offer service, and I quote literally, "as well as any other good. Look at you, gentlemen of the UPC, we live in a rule of law where private property must be respected. Article 33.1 of our Constitution states this and common sense. Of course, in view of the actions of his formation and his associates every time they go out to the street, occupation of private dwellings, destruction of urban furniture, annihilation of shops and hospitality..., we assume that they are not familiar with the concept of respect for private property; unless it is their private property, that is, that as good communists, as any communist who is prized, it is theirs and the rest is also theirs. Finally, it is a pity that, for the moment, the issue of state interventionism, in this autonomous case, on the property of private companies, is not covered. And, lastly, and most importantly, have you thought of where you are going to get the capital to create a new health transport system at an autonomous level? Do you intend to close private companies, which are the only ones that generate wealth and economic growth in Catalonia to give management to the Department of Health, which is the closest thing to the cave of Ali Baba? Do you intend to pay for this new dream by expressing Catalans with new taxes that they will determine in future months? Look at the Balearic Islands and learn from their experience. The PSOE government and Podemos wanted to do the same. The result, two years later: an added deficit of more than 6_million_de_euro, according to an external audit, all invested in more and higher positions with no goal of efficiency or improvement, a euphemism to talk about a customer network. That is, in one word: waste at the expense of the citizens of these islands, a public model based on political decisions that citizens bear, under the mirage of a better service, exactly like the great lie of their proposed law. You see, public-private collaboration on health is a fundamental asset that allows us to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of health care, as it improves and promotes competitiveness, which indisputably leads to improved technological advances, individualisation of products according to consumer preference, freedom of choice – I repeat, freedom of choice –, increased transparency, expanded health coverage and excellence in management. The left has never understood that the universalization of a service does not mean making that service public, but that everyone has access to a particular service or service whenever they need it. We are convinced that excellence can only be achieved through dialogue between public and private entities, understanding each other's strengths and weaknesses, and complementing each other. Experience and economic foundations say that this is the case, and, in view of this, this is what we propose: public-private collaboration, and making material resources available to private companies so that they can perform their work optimally, for the benefit of workers, for the benefit of patients and for the benefit of the Catalan economy. And since I have three minutes left, Mrs. Reguant, I will tell you that I and any of my group will talk to anyone who offers themselves to a dialogue, because that is what democracy is about. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.184.0	Next, to express his position, he has the word on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Mario García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.185.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs... It's not so hard, VOX MP; it's not so hard to use language well. Look, it's the first time I've had the honor of speaking in this room, so I understand that it's prescribed that I'm present. I say to Mario García, and after listening very carefully to his interventions in this plenary and in the various committees to which he has been, I am quite clear that I come from an unknown reality of Catalonia for this Parliament; a reality that is said to be Barcelona barrels, barrels that we have been abandoned for the Government of the Generality for two years and that neither you nor your politicians have done anything for us. Quickly, allow them to make two recommendations. The first, when they enter Barcelona, they do not enter directly for the round to this Parliament, but they pass through our barrels. They see this as impacting the inequalities in the city of Barcelona and as you wear two years without doing anything to correct them. There's more than two hundred points of difference between our city's barrels. About a half a hundred, of the seventy-three barrels of Barcelona, we have Ciutat Meridiana with a thirty-night and the Pedralbes with 248. And inequalities, counselors, impact a lot on health issues. The second, when speaking of Catalonia and the needs of Catalans and Catalans, also mentally quantify those of whose Catalonia they speak. Mirin, to Nou Barris, for example, we are 174,000 Catalans and Catalans, almost like Sant Andreu and Horta. Make your own conclusions. And look, I'm in the matter. Mirin, what are we talking about here? We are talking basically about the best of the essential services of the health system that remain externalized and privatized at this time, and that we want them integrated and public. And we do it with the in-house look, so, in the future and not the in-house past. Rather than looking at the past; what it is all about is how we want to live in the future and how we want to improve our people's living conditions from this Parliament; let us live conditions that, in this case, revolve around the need for a strong and rationally ordered health system, which the pandemic has posed as a manifesto. Because if a lesson has given us the pandemic, it is the need to have an agile, powerful and interconnected health system with the rest of the health systems, both from Spain and from the rest of Europe. Therefore, we will not support the threat to the totality that, curiously, presents the VOX Group, those who do not believe in a strong public health system, those who defend health co-opting, those who always go against the workers, all taking refuge in flags and childish slogans. Look, gentlemen of VOX, when I look at you sitting there saying that you want to close this Parliament, that you want to put an end to the rights of Catalans and Catalans, that you want to refocus health skills, and that you do so while you are paying a good salary from this very institution, I don't know if I'm actually attending a joke from those hidden cameras. Its approaches are therefore anti-Cathalanese, but they are also anti-Spanish, because I have already told you in committee and I repeat it here, honourable Member, our autonomy and our system of health competence is endorsed by our Constitution, and there is no Spain or Catalonia apart from our Constitution. To go against the competences of Health in Catalonia is to be deeply anti-Spanish. Less flags and more powers involving rights, gentlemen of VOX; less flags and more rights. Look, our position is diametrically opposed to his. On the contrary, we consider that it is necessary to process the law and to open a process of work and debate together with which we have undertaken many times different groups in this plenary. We've done it in the past legislature and so have we in this one. We need to ask ourselves whether it is really necessary to do so for law or for a portfolio of services, but we understand that law is the only way that has become viable, given the government's inaction to respect. The best thing here is to make a little history. Mirin, the year 2014, just before the elections in 2015, "the Government of the best, the d'Artur Mas, who set the head of the employer to manage the public system, Mr.Boi Ruiz, took to competition the urgent and non-urgent health transport, one of the highest quantity contests that were taken and in which they were awarded all the lots. These new contracts already from the first day were a nil of problems, with constant incompliments, both in terms of conditions and in the services, and they were long, from the first day, of what established the departure of conditions. It can only be remembered that we did not have any follow-up commission acts, and that it even delayed the inn out of the new contract for lack of time from the companies to donate their service. So, in the councillor's legislature, Comín, they went to denounce the dysfunctions, until the point that the own councillor commissioned an audit of the Aquas, which, in fact, ratified what everyone saw, that it was a disaster. It's worth saying that there were only a few sanctions that were imposed. And it goes also to say that from the very first moment it was the workers and the workers who first denounced the deficiencies and the incompliments, such as those that are now at the door and that I take advantage of, that we take advantage of our group, to greet cordially. It may also be recalled that in the presentation of the presuppositions of 2020, the prepandemics, the powerpoint that the current president of the Generalitat said: "New proposal for health transport, a proposal that we have never seen before. But in a time of pandemic, things got worse. Just for example, the workers suffered from material and PPE, and many times they had to rent the work stuff themselves. The working conditions between those who worked at the SEM and those of the contracts were very different, which was a lot worse, and a lot, in time of covet. Still being an essential service, some company – let me remind you – tried to process an ERO, which we denounced and CatSalut stopped it. The difference between SEM and the others is abysmal, and one of the demands has always been salary equipping: the professionals were five months away asking for the equipping, without hearing any response from the employers, neither the Cat Salut nor the department. The vacancy was deconvoked after the trade union representatives and various parliamentary groups signed up to the agreement to create a table to address salary equip ment. It has to be said that, in compliment of this agreement, the table has been created and is working there, perhaps not at the rate we would like, but it has moved forward and we are pending a new meeting call. My group has always understood that we are talking about two things: first, urgent health transport and not urgent is part of the health services and is an essential service, and that it is necessary to work in the two open processes, both in the salary equipping of the professionals of the SEM and the concessionary enterprises, as in the decision to exercise the service in direct management. Therefore, do not continue to bring this contest to your service. This second aspect is what now reverses the proposal of the law presented by the CUP Group - A New Cycle to Win. That is why we asked the Member whether this should be done by law or as part of the decisions that the Government should take to complement the mandates of the own Parliament, and therefore to present here a proposal for direct management of the service, once the concession has been completed; a proposal that should be accompanied by a model of medical emergencies and health transport as well as services. And it is in the absence of this proposal and of the government's inaction on this issue that there has been the initiative of a group that opens this debate in the form of law's proposal. Look, it won't be our group that prevents us from working in the best of this present situation or being able to work in the active listening of all the views, valuing all the possibilities and enriching what is needed to the text that is presented today. And I have made it clear two days before: the sustainable improvement of the Catalan health system and the improvement of the working conditions of workers. Therefore, we will not support this goal to the totality that VOX presents. And, finally, ladies and gentlemen of VOX, it is not the only defence of the workers, as you proclaim, the only defence of the workers and the workers is the labor right, it is the Statute of Autonomy and it is the Spanish Constitution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.186.0	Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of In Comú Podemos, has the words of Mr David Cid.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.187.0	Thank you, President. Yesterday, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I had the opportunity to attend the conference made by the Councillor of Salut, who, if I don't recall badly, is said to be "Transformations of the system of salvation, present and future, which was inspiring in many respects, right? But in any case, he said the Heredia Lidia, which he shared with the councillor, said, space and also protagonistism, that a possible holder of the last years of Catalan sanitation is that we have diagnosed very much, but we have done a little. I think a little bit of raccoon had it; in fact, the counselor thought that a little bit of raccoon also gave it to him. Of all kinds, we also believe that there are some diagnostic errors or even minor errors or omissions; perhaps we could talk about diagnostic errors or omissions about Catalan society. Oblits and mistakes that we also found missing yesterday. Because there's one element that, for us, it's fundamental that you have to see with the model, and with the management model many times. And yesterday the Councillor said – and I think it is right, and here too it has our commitment – that Catalan sanitation needs more resources. And I hope and desire that the very premise of the Generality will be a premise of remembrance in salvation. Of instruments in tea; we are talking about many resources, resources, certainly, that sometimes is oblivious – I already know that 'always get more, but' that also arrive from the State, and this year many resources arrive from the State. For example, some general assumptions of the State, which its group rejects, despite the arrival of transfers, such as the return of VAT, which in its moment the People's Party retaliated to Catalonia. Therefore, I think we obviously need more resources, but we also need to discuss the management model, because we believe that the Catalan health model has holes that generate inefficiency and inefficiency, and, in the end, what we need to discuss, and we have also set it up several times, is whether the Catalan public health system can be a place of business or must be a source of the welfare state and must be a genuine national health service. And this is the fundamental element. Because he was talking now, wasn't he? , that is to say, "is that the health service to Balears is deficient, it is 6_million euros. Well, you also explained yesterday that, I don't know whether or not we are in deficit – we believe that in defense of Catalonia's public health – we spend 30_million euros a month on PCR tests, for example. Or perhaps, for someone, it is also a problem all the money that we have spent on public vaccination in Catalonia, that I am pleased that, obviously, we have a system of salvation, unlike what happens in many countries of the world, in which vaccination is a public vaccination, and that it has protected us and made us overcome, not without difficulties, but overcome more quickly than other countries, for example, the situation of pandemic. And in the end, when it's talking about saving public-private collaboration, it's talking about mutual collaboration, we're talking about that, we're talking about mutuals. And, in the end, today it has become clear that the extreme right represents the party defending the interests of the mutuals in the Parliament of Catalonia, and this has to be seen with the aim of the totality that it presents. And the debate on health transport and its internalisation has to do with this. I would like to remind you that this year's July adopted a motion for a resolution on the internalisation of health transport and the 061, which is also vague, because of its exhaustion situation and with working conditions that are every time more complicated. And we were worried about the statements you made in August that, from 061 and the sanitary transport, your internalisation, was not on the order of the day. In fact, we have asked him to appear before the Health Committee in order to discuss it sufficiently, to contrast models; it has been approved, and we hope that we may have it soon. I don't know if the debate we have today... your group's vote, too, is a goal in its totality in its position, in which case I hope it's still that way, isn't it? Because, in the end, the Catalan health system, we have the impression that badly – and today I think you also talked about it – stood in many cases on the efforts of health professionals, but also especially on a willingness to reduce the labor costs of workers. And in the end we have a situation where the workers and workers... I, these days, who I am visiting..., I was with the Sanitary Consortium of Garraf, I was at the Sanitary Consortium of Vic, everyone expresses the inequalities that exist in the working conditions, not only at the wage level – that also – but, for example, also on the workloads. I think that yesterday, too, my own advisor recognized me, didn't he? And why do people at home also understand us, that we are talking today about internalization, for example, of workers and workers. That people, at home, when you see an ambulance and you see someone dressed with an arm that poses it, "you serve as a medical emergence, you think they are SEM workers, but they are actually workers and workers of a private company, which, in addition, have different working conditions that have, for example, SEM workers, right? For example, to start with, I think the first thing that's more relevant, is to say, in the end they have a transport agreement. They do not have an agreement, for example, like the rest of the SEM workers or they do not have the Siscat agreement, when in reality during the pandemic they have acted as workers of the Catalan health system and, obviously, they have been considered..., because they had to go to work, with certain conditions that we could also talk about, not equivalent, for example, to those of the SEM workers and workers for whom they are protecting PPEs or PCRs, but in the end they have been considered essential workers and workers, and therefore we are also talking about this. With certain conditions of work, such as, very different, which have come to cause estguessin– for example, non-urgent health transport – in vagaries for five months; vagaries that the majority of the Catalan society do not know, among other things because it applies minimum services of the cent_per_cent, because they are considered an essential service. But sometimes they don't have the same conditions as the rest of the company, do they? As I said, with certain working conditions during the pandemic that have clearly been... from a point of view of work risks, they do not, as at least, complete the same conditions that were found to be working the workers and workers of the SEM. And, in addition, they move us that they are arriving, as in the third element, at a limited situation for which they do work stress, or even with the difference they have in the coverage of external hours. And, therefore, for us it is unsustainable and unacceptable to maintain a model that is basically based..., and it would be unsustainable if we were only based on certain working conditions that are clearly different, but it is, moreover, that the service is not good, if it is in words there, colloquial, that the service is a square. Because they repeatedly explain to us cases, not anecdotes, but concrete cases, for example, of a person who has to go to the hospital or a hospital centre for a dialysis service, who practically triages two hours to go and two hours to return, because there is a species that is once and for all due to the lack of availability of services. There are also cases such as other hospitals that cannot be donated because they have to wait four or six hours for them to pick them up in order to be able to move them from the hospital or hospital centre to their home. And in the end, why is this happening? So this happens because we're talking about companies that don't only serve the Service of Medical Emergencies of Catalonia, but they also have their mutual contracts. And that they prioritize, for example, you serve that they have to deal with their commitment to the private world, that not with the Catalan public service. And, obviously, this situation generates inequality, which is depending on who can pay a mutual and who can't pay a mutual, which I think we should face from the own Health Department and which, in any case, also does this bill of law. In short, our commitment is firm, from Comú Pueblo, with the internalization of health transport and we will work to make it possible as soon as possible, worth the redundancy, and therefore we will reject this goal to the totality. In short, for three motius. Because we think the Catalan model of salvation can't be..., or can't continue where they have spaces that are business, that's to say, we have to decide whether we want salvation to be a business space or a phonetic pot of the welfare state. Secondly, because there cannot be any different working conditions than the rest of the workers in the health care system. And, in short, because we want a first-level and first-level civil service, the same for everyone, regardless of their level, their income level. And I take advantage of these thirty-seconds that we obviously have left to move all the support to the workers and workers of the sanitary transport, and also of 061, because we also claim that the 061 is internalized by the Generality. In short, as I said, it is to say, to be certain in the diagnosis is fundamental, and I think that here we also need to talk about the model and what model of the Catalan health system we want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.188.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.189.0	Thank you, President. Well, I, in the short time I've been in this Parliament, do believe in the good of God of motions, proposals for resolutions and I don't know how many pieces of legislation are more appropriate, in total, because they don't talk any more, or go much more. There has already been talk here of the 13th motion of the 13th – 14th parliamentary term for friends – of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the lines of action for the long term transformation of the economic model. We're talking about last July, actually. Common, socialists, juntas, cuparies and lefts approve, among other things, to initiate a process of internalization of basic health services, such as the 061 and health transport services. Start, gentlemen of the CUP, start; we do not intend to sell that they already have the fish in the hole because seeing the experience this can last longer than the Holy Family's works. Of the 061, we are still talking to the last Health Commission, that there was no way to agree whether because it's free it can only be regional – national, what you would say –, or they could have more extensive and ambitious territorial sights. Motion 17 of the XI legislature, on health transport and medical emergencies and emergencies. It ran the year 2016. This young man was ours, he was from Ciutadans. He incorporated elements of the CUP, so that at that time still goes Catalonia Yes it is Pot, Socialists and Juntaires. One of the approved points asked to adjust, pending a consensus, the model established in November 2015 with the territorial deployment resulting from the existing health transport contract and advance towards a model of management, ownership and preferably public provision. A little cryptic, I don't say no to them, huh? But they won't deny me that there was some intent to go there. Resolution 285, Legislature XI, on the actions for a new model of management of the system of medical emergencies. We follow the year 2016. This was a cupary proposal, with joint statements, which called for the deployment of the new model of the medical emergence system to be distributed and for a model of management, ownership and public provision to be advanced. In the 12th term, they asked again, and it seems that we can take it away from us all our lives. This Parliament, for moments, looks like Penelope's telegraph, the wife of Ulisses, night-drenched to the day-old teixie, always returning as hard as ever around the same themes without ever reaching operational consensus or effect. It seems that often this room only serves to compare theoretical models, not concrete management proposals. This CUP law proposal has good and strong things to do, especially when it comes to motivating. They are right when they denounce the inequity of the service's performance if we compare the different territories of Catalonia, especially if we start doing it in the Lands of the Ebre. It is also undeniable that they are right when they denounce the working conditions of the people who provide this service, who will often face low wages, infernal hours and little expectation of seeing their labour rights respected and almost most basic human rights respected. So, other thoughts, I'd say they're from the least reeixids. Criticisms can and must be made, and many criticisms can be made, but this is why the whole model of management for private companies in health care transport is described as weak. There was also the difference between scalding people's heads or making them believe that internalization would solve all their problems and all their injustices. When people turn them into canon meat of activism, they take on a heavy political responsibility, especially when they promise things that they know you won't be able to change. In short, it seems that there is no way to talk about these themes without falling into the manicism between those who want to carry the traditional model of Catalan sanitation arranged in favor of the total public, as tirelessly asks the CUP, or those who want to throw away the private without filters or maneuvers, as it seems that would please the lords of VOX. You have been right to paint the passage of terror, well, of mismanagement of the public. But for the same reason we could also audit the management of some private companies. I mean, here I don't think anyone's saved, who would really have to spin very thinly. Finally, surely, as Aristotle said, virtue is an acquired voluntary arrangement that consists of sorting the middle term between two extreme ailments. Here the middle term, like the saying, is where they will always find us, fleeing from the extremes that neutralizing each other will cause a zero sum, fatally sterile. It's just as often as the health transport workers come to see us, they meet with parliamentary groups or they're manifestin', while here we don't stop doing activism to start doing politics. If that doesn't happen, this evil can last a hundred years and still a thousand more years. It became clear, I suppose, that we would vote against the VOX threat to the totality of this law proposal, but we are also deeply skeptical of the proposal itself. There is no doubt that health transport is a very delicate subject for gas experiments, because it affects the first line of many people's salvation. As the representatives of Technicians in Lluita explained to us when they came to see us and how they explained to us this late at the door of the Parliament, that we did not stop to greet each other, the difference between an agile ambulance service and one not so agile can be the difference between life and death for the victims of an accident or an accident. It's clear that they can't work with ambulance drivers working as if they were Glovo riders. That said, the solution to the union problems of these workers and the social and health problems of the people they care about is to turn all the ambulance drivers into functioning – "private health poop, and it's already – or do we have to look for the middle term, the difficult philosophical virtue and even all the politics that Aristotle preached? In politics, the «asks for the impossible and if they give it warns me sometimes there are criminal consequences. We, in Ciutadans, will always find ourselves in favor of concerted sanitation and we will always find ourselves with an open eye, watching both the supporters of blowing up the model as those who may profit from making some unforgivable martingala, still with the sanitary transport, with 061 or with the diets of the ICS directive. As I said, so let's try to get rid of the punches, get rid of the activisms, work and politics, and see if this time we get any results that I didn't end up raising bad and bad in some way or in some Polish gag. I don't know if they've seen the last of them. He says: "The CUP says that and does that. That's not for nothing, but you spend the day complaining – quite rightly – about the health-care details of this government, but give support to this government. Once and for all, to the Health Commission, you and we are the ones who most strongly protest; every time we complain..., and every time we try to reopen the CAP of Poblenou, in Sabadell, to recover a gynecological service here or a pediatrics there, we pose, why ask you, us, the commons, the socialists or the PP – VOX me'ls jump because between sanitary cords and other creatures you will never vote for life, proposing what you propose–... If one day you get a bad air and propose a DUI I am curious to see what would happen. [[Rialles.]] So that every time any group tries to get more resources, more rooms for sanitation, invariably come the tips of Uncle Gilito, Junts and Esquerra, to lower the whole issue and make sure that everything remains in re, in zero « potato, than a hard one, goes. You've done enough denouncing it, that; so have we. But after you give rope to this government. Why? I'm telling you, until Poland gets back, the CUP says that and it does that. And, as we are, yesterday the Councillor of Salut, Mr. Josep Maria Argimon, inaugurated the « Health days of the season with a conference of « bells; there was everyone– all the health counselors of the last decades, the President Artur Mas, representatives of the sector, many spokespersons of the Commission of Salut... – ; I was also there, and I took good note that the doctor and Councillor Argimon said – with many good words and much finer, as he is – that they either donate much more resources than they have now or are compromising a significant part of the Next Generation, for example, for primary care, or we will not get out. Of course, there are those who sleep very calmly thinking that the fault of all the tea Madrid, but everyone here knows that it is more quickly a problem of ours, of bad management here. Ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, if you are so clear that this government manages health and even all the health transport, external or internal, with the few, why, instead of trying to infuse the concerted sanitation and wanting to fix it all by converting everyone into working, does it not come from gathering a better government? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.190.0	Then, on behalf of the Grup Mixt, the Member of Parliament, Ms Lorena Roldán, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.191.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, I will be brief on some of the issues, because I agree with many of the things that have been explained here, but, moreover, because it is an issue that we have already talked about extensively in previous legislatures, and some of the Members who have preceded me have even mentioned because the multiple motions that we have adopted in this Parliament, but also motions for resolutions, which have taken them to the Health Committee, questions in the monitoring session to the Government... That is, it is an issue that we are concerned about because it is an issue that we have been dragging for a very long time. I want to take this opportunity, as I am here, to thank the work of the workers of the SEM, also of the 061, who were also demonstrating a while ago at the doors of Parliament – I don't know if they are still there – who need someone to listen to them because they are complaints that, I insist, we have been dragging for a very long time. In fact, since 2015, with the so-called macro-contest of Councillor Boi Ruiz of 2.000_million_de_euros, with that ten-year award, which has been shown not to work; it is a model that, for the moment..., is a management that has failed. I don't know if the problem is that management has failed or the problem is a model problem. We do not agree with what the CUP is proposing today with this bill, because we obviously have different conceptions. We do not want to give up public-private collaboration, and even less so in the health care system, and especially after the experience we have experienced in the worst moments of the pandemic. I believe that all the resources we have at our disposal must be used; the problem is how those resources are used. That is to say, it is true that these awards, that contract that was made at that time, obviously brought many of the complications that bring this type of macro-competition: in the end, small businesses cannot compete, they cannot make competitive offers, and these awards end up winning them, so larger companies that have other resources and that operate in other ways. And it is true that the complaints of the users have increased, it is true that there has also been a decrease in the capacity for management and resolution, especially in rural areas. He speaks of the proposition of law in the exposition of reasons for territorial inequality, and also quotes Terres de l'Ebre, who I know perfectly well. And there we agree, there are inequalities. Surely, these companies that operated previously because they were more adapted to the reality of the territory, knew it more, and hence also those problems arising from the competition. There have also been complaints not only of the users but also of the workers – and they have been expressed from this rostrum this afternoon – union complaints, because from uniforms that did not meet the requirements that did mark the specifications; it was also explained that they were even forced to do the hygiene, to wash these uniforms. I don't want to imagine, in the middle of the covid, because this is what I could assume, with a highly contagious virus. Obviously, that is not what is expected of a service of these characteristics. The operational bases where they rest between those endless shifts that they have made, because they were also unconditioned; those shifts, which I tell you, endless; low salaries, besides not matching with SEM workers and other concessionaires; fewer vehicles, too, operating we have found ourselves in some situations from which they were hired. In short, a number of complaints which, I insist, we have been repeating from this Parliament for a long time. It seems that we sometimes agree, but then, however, because the Government does absolutely nothing. I would also like to recall – and it has also been mentioned here – the Aquas report, which has already detected this type of irregularity and that, however, those conclusions of that report have not been resolved either. Dealers, too, who have been subject to labour inspections; in some of them, for example, we found regulatory breaches such as, for example, workers who had been working and performing their work in the sector for years and who, however, had become involved in a contract in practice, with the corresponding sanction, but, of course, had been and had been through that situation. And the problem is that the SEM has washed its hands with all this. So, this is not a receipt for workers and this is not a receipt for a service that is also essential – they are the first to arrive. We have to cover it in the best of ways. Now, the best way is to change the model? We don't like this one because it doesn't work, because then we change it and we go to a model of internalization. I don't think that's what it is. The public-private model can work, but the government has some responsibilities; the government has to look... Well, first it has to make clauses and conditions that are as strict as possible and that collect all the cases we can find. And, second, there has to be control by the government. That is, if there is a breach of these specifications, there must be a penalty. And if, moreover, the breach is repeated or is excessively serious, like these we have seen, because we must even consider the termination of that contract and, moreover, also, because that undertaking, that concessionaire, is then subjected to the very penalties that are already contained in the contract law, as it is not possible to re-submit competitions of these characteristics. The problem is that there has been a lay-off; we cannot come here to say: "Hey, no, it's that the model this does not work, let's go back to the one before. No, no, Let's see why it doesn't work, what happened. I insist that we believe that the optimal model is that of public-private collaboration but that, obviously, because it has not been done well, it is a failure in the management of this model. We, I insist, do not agree with this text of the law, but it is true that we believe that we must start talking about what is going on, and if it is necessary for that to happen today, then we must open this paper and we can make amendments to the article, which I say will certainly be quite, and probably, at least from our group, the resulting text, therefore, would be quite different. We do not believe that an amendment should be tabled in its entirety, because in the end it is the workers who are again injured. As long as we do not agree on how this model should be, how it should be lent, whether it has to be more collaborative or less, whether we have to go to every public, to every private collaboration, etc., the workers are there waiting for us to agree. There are also things about the law that I think are left, that is... and you even recognize it, not for nothing, but because they are already reflected in the current labour regulations, such as, for example, the subject of subrogations. We already know that these workers have to be subrogated. Therefore, it seems to me to be a bit of a waste of time to legislate on what has been legislated. I insist that it is not the text that we would have presented, nor much less. I insist that this is not the model we are defending. It does not seem to us the best model, and even less with the health situation so complicated that we are living. We are going to abstain from that amendment, simply because we want to open that paper, because we want to put forward amendments and because we want to tackle once and for all all the problems that we have been dragging forward since 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.192.0	Subsequently, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the word deputy Jordi Fàbrega.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.193.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies. Today we are discussing the speech to the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of VOX with this proposal of law for the internalization of health transport in Catalonia. As far as progress is concerned, since it cannot be otherwise, the Junts per Catalunya Group will vote against the motion for a totality tabled. For those who have presented it, of course, and why we do not oppose this law starting its parliamentary process, and so we can discuss, calmly, what is the model of health transport we need in Catalonia, with the idea of reaching a broad consensus to provide the citizen of Catalonia with the best possible health services; in this case, the best possible health transport. Because we don't divert focus. For us – and I understand that for a very important part of the people of Catalonia – the debate is not the title of this or some other public service. The debate must always be the service we offer to the citizen, and what is the way to achieve excellence with this service we offer. In the previous interventions, above all the group proposing the law and the groups which seem to support the same wording, I have heard the word 'titled on six occasions, and, in change, words referring to the best of the service, the quality of the service thinking of the users, only on two occasions. Wouldn't we be putting the focus where it doesn't touch? Do we want the best possible health transportation or do we want public health transportation, regardless of its management, regardless of the health outcomes, which are the most important? That doesn't mean that the service that's going to be ready now doesn't have any faults, does it? Nor much less, but it is also true that not all concessionary companies have identical results, the same way that not all ICS CAPs have identical results, nor all hospitals have identical results in different diseases, whether ICS hospitals or Siscat hospitals. Some present them better, some present them worse. In no way, all public ownership services have better results than the concerted centres. There's a lot going on. By this I mean that not all deficiencies and not all shortcomings, that there is, will be solved magically with the internalization of the services on the part of the Government, nor will they elaborate laws that return to the public service, whether they are essential or not. Make a decision of these features open the door and set a precedent that can have a difficult return and a follow-up of consequences throughout the whole health system. A health system – let's remember – that is the result of a broad consensus of this parliamentary arc, which was approved by LOSC in 1990 because we are talking about the urgent health system and the non-urgent health system, the telephone, health and emergency consultation, and at large, about our entire health system. From Juntes per Catalunya we insist that the debate should not be the title of the servants in general, but the quality of the servants themselves. The internalization of the service for itself, in case it ensures that it is more quality. To say this would also be to deny the quality of the service offered by the company in the name of public administrations. The proposal for a law submitted to the CUP considers that health transport has been a weakness in the management model and mentions lack of coordination between central units and territories, emplacement of the system of emergencies, the aging of the fleet of vehicles, poor management of roads, etc. Not obvious, huh? , that all health transport, both urgent and non-urgent, managed for the EMS and managed for other concessionary enterprises, has suffered severely from the pandemic like the rest of the health sector. Difficulties, disconnection, lack of protocols, lack of material and uncertainty have affected everyone equally, regardless of their ownership. And let me take advantage of this moment to make a reassessment of all health transport workers for the end-of-work pocket during the worst months of the pandemic. Follow the company that's here to pay the payroll. [[Greetings.]] Back to the theme you're on, huh? One of the most just and necessary demands to be met has been and is the great... – we don't know – the great comparison between health transport workers provided for dealers and SEM workers. Only the ownership of the service is not sufficient reason to show these differences in the field of work, because these differences are not only touching the labor rights and wages of workers, but they wear out and demotivate all of them in time. For this reason, the wage-equipment table for health transportation is a big step forward. It is a table that must bring us equality in the field of work of the sector, in the same way that it must be accompanied by better in the format of the entire collection of workers. All parliamentary groups participated in this first table. We saw the calendar and we saw the targets fixed. Since this first meeting on September 22, three meetings of work have already been held, internal, more. If I wasn't wrong, the third one, today itself. And it works together department, SEM, unions and employers to find a full route that has to lead us to deal with these hardships and thus solve the work inequalities between the different workers of health transport. If the set calendar is completed, we would have to agree at the beginning of the year and it could begin to apply with the assumptions of the year 22. If we need to improve the coordination between the central and territorial parts, we believe that the SEM, with its management model and acting as the guideline for all health transport in Catalonia, can boost the necessary and better changes that are going to increase this coordination. We're talking about the quality of attendance. It means that in the field of salvation there are many externalized services and that this externalization, in any case, means better quality of care. There are cases where you can even talk about better management and better service quality. Let us not conjugate the terms 'private' with the worse; let us not conjugate the terms 'private management' with the desire to work. Some of the concessionary businesses that provide this service, for example, are a cooperative. About the aging of the fleet of vehicles, some consideration. European legislation considers that the working time of an ambulance is two years. The internalisation of the transport system does not guarantee that vehicles are renewed more frequently. We can look at other public services to see that the renewal of fleets of vehicles is not as frequent as we would like. There are other public 100_per_cent ownership services that also run a deficit in vehicle renewal; for example, firefighters. Therefore, we are quite certain that internalisation is not a guarantee of fleet renewal more frequently, that there is an inspectorship that needs to be taken into account to keep vehicles in the best possible state, and that legislation brings a life that in no case can be overcome. With regard to the subrogation of workers, we also have doubts, because who assures us that the current workers will end up feeling you will work from the SEM? The law's proposal talks about substituting the workers as vagina wins the agreements. Perfect. But it would be good to subrogate them as interims. So, then, I'd like you to work through an opposition contest. Are we sure they'd all get the square? It could be a lot more technical, huh? Maybe other companies that aren't internalised yet. Let's make sure we don't, want to improve working conditions, end up harming the workers. And, above all, if the outfitting table gives its fruits and, in terms of work and format, we already have them matched. With respect to territorialized management. Who assures us that a centralised management from the SEM does not hinder the knowledge of the territory and manage it from the proximity? I come from a local area, when the SEM is called from a hilly massif, we have serious doubts that the ambulance gets to the place where we play. This Catalonia, Mr Garcia, also exists and we think of all of it, also in this and also in the barrels of Barcelona. Certainly, SEM, as you all know, means Medical Emergencies System. Therefore, it directly manages emergencies, not non-urgent transport. I don't know if it would be hot to direct it to the SEM or to make a company that managed non-urgent transport. Also the presuppositional neutrality of the law's proposition is questionable. It is difficult to conceive the possibility of better working conditions for workers, better quality of service, without an increase in funding. I understand that a bill of law of this kind must be accompanied by a corresponding economic memory. And, obviously, we can't help but talk about this need in the better financing of the Catalan health system, quantified in these 5,000_million euros over the next five years. As you see, we have a lot of doubts about the current wording of the bill, but we are willing to talk to each other and share them all. Let's face the debate, let's listen to the sector, let's listen to all the positions in the sector, let's look for solutions, let's look for consensus, and let's work on a law in which everyone and everyone can feel proud and, above all, that we improve the health transportation assistance, urgent and not urgent, that we offer to the citizen. I think we need to sit down, see what the effects of the 2015 competition have been, because we can certainly draw conclusions from what we need to keep from what we need to improve. If you don't, we'll just move the same mistakes with a change of title, and that's not a good exercise. Maybe we don't think so much about the ownership of the service and we all think that Catalonia has the best health transportation system, professional formats and equal rights to work, fleets, cities, renovations, teams, sure, to continue building a successful model. Because, to be honest, excellence does not come from the hands of ownership, but from content, effort, planning, improvement, training and, especially, from the people who make assistance possible with the human quality that characterizes them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.194.0	And, finally, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, the deputy Mr Juli Fernàndez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.195.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good late. Allow me to start with a record for Congresswoman Estrada. Congresswoman Estrada sure that today she would have salat presenting this bill – so she gave it the last day to the Health Commission – and, therefore, to the Estrada company, a record for the work done and that the hour is short. ( Some applause.) For us, being able to debate today about urgent health transport, non-urgent health transport, the model of health transport in this country is an opportunity. It is an opportunity because, surely, many times, when at our house up an ambulance or a vehicle, it is a medical vehicle, it is a vehicle of rapid intervention, it is any type of vehicle, usually of basic life support, many times we do not think in everything that is behind it. Don't think about what kind of management it's after. Let's not think of the professionals behind it, but we give it in fact that it's an essential service and that's how it is and it's always been. And I'd like to remember when I was a kid – I'm sure a lot of you were, too – but that wasn't it. The transportation system at that time was beneficial, if I may say so, out of the system and with the years the steps we've been taking have been what? They have continued to incorporate health transport, both urgent and non-urgent, into the management capacity of the public health system. Until 2006, the Medical Emergencies Service only coordinated urgent transport; the CatSalut, the non-urgent, and, from the 15th, I believe that a question that we all shared here, the change in the coordination of the two types of transport for such an SEM is a positive change. We are in a public service, in a health service, where urgent health transport is almost 900,000 or a little more than 900,000 interventions in the past year, and where health care is not urgent is a little more than 2_million, 2,160,000. Therefore, a daily activity at the service of our brutal people. This evolution of the emergency health transport service I was able to live in the first person too, when at the Tauli Hospital in Sabadell there was transferred the base of the air health service, because we have four mid-airs, four mid-airs that until the year 14 were managed by the RACC, and that they were incorporated into the SEM the year 16 and this made the base also transferred from the General Hospital of Catalonia to the Tauli Hospital in Sabadell. Therefore, a pass in the sense of which this proposal of law sets us up: a part of the health service at that moment already we went directly to manage, in this case, the yesterday. Therefore, before the motion for a debate on the totality of VOX, it is obvious that we would vote against it, it is obvious that we would vote against it because the public model is a model based on ideas. This is what happens all over the world where there are democracies, and so we, with our ideological vision, believe that quality and public management are inextricable, that quality and public management allow us to have more capacity and guarantee more precisely what we are pursuing, that it is this quality, that our citizens have the best service. The internalisation processes are not simple, the internalisation processes are long, the internalisation processes generate many reticences. I have not been able to live in my city, shared with Congressman Pellicer, for example, where we were able to internalize services when we share in their political formation, and there are many, many expectations that we can explain, always and clearly, that they are not easy to complete, but that with compromise and work and the ability to generate consensus and majorities, which, by now, with attachment and fermented and fervent defense of the internalization made by Congressman García, of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, I come very much to the point that in this room there is, so far I have never felt it in this way. Therefore, with the construction of majorities, with the construction and the work with all the agents who are part of this health transport service, we start the work, and that is what I would like to focus on. Before Congresswoman Remnant did it, and I think it's to please the non-generation of expectations, or situations that are different from reality. We're starting the process of this law. Starting a path, therefore, begins a work so that all the Members of the parliamentary groups work to build majority consensus that, from our visit, must advance, as we have signed with the CUP Group - A New Cycle for Guanyar, with the public title of the service, guaranteeing it a better quality, having a greater capacity to tax public money: 2,500_million euros in two years– 2,500_million euros in two years– is a brutal figure. Having greater public money taxation capacity is clear that direct public money management on this side is indisputable, and above all – above all – having the best service for our citizens. It is obvious – it is obvious – that the working conditions of workers and workers in urgent and non-urgent health transport are very important, but I think that we are far more than a subrogation of workers and working conditions. We have a context with the table of equipment, with the stage of our own years with possible extensions of the service, to debate and build the model, the model of health transport of our country, to make another pass, to make a pass more of all that we have done so far. Therefore, the Republican Esquerra compromise of Catalonia to work in this sense. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Some applause. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.196.0	We proceed, therefore, to the end of the debate, to the vote of the debate on the whole, of the motion of the law. The vote begins... [[Widow's remorse.]] The vote begins. The total was rejected with 11 votes in favour, 112 votes against and 7 abstentions. Therefore, this initiative will continue its processing. [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a committee of inquiry into the management of residences for large people]] [[252-00010/13]] Let's move on to the fifth item on the agenda, the proposal for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry on the management of residences for the great people. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please ask the deputies who come out of the Chamber to do so in silence. This proposal was submitted for the Parliamentary Group of the Common People's Party and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Then, in the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of En Comú Puem, the MP Jessica González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.197.0	Thank you, President. In general, it is not easy for us to talk about death. We wear a few months of pandemic, but somehow trying to mourn all the deaths that occurred during this evil pandemic without precedent. Among these dead, we had at least 9,300 that was produced at residences, many of them absolutely inevitable by the force with which the covid-19 was carnified against the great people. Other deaths, however, led to criminal prosecutions, and even more so by civil means, denouncing negligence, some archives a day ago, driven by family members, entities, workers we have here today; and that they are also reflected in a demolishing report by Amnesty International announcing the violation of human rights and of salvation, abandonment of people to great ends to death, structural problems, lack of funding, personal and control. We take the opportunity to welcome this group to the Residence Coordinator 5+1, a movement of residents of Catalonia, workers, relatives of the Bertran and Oriola residents of Barceloneta, who I also had the experience of experimenting with them the pandemic, and of the El Molí residents, of the bars of Prosperity. Thank you for being here and for the dignity and rigour with which you fight every day to seek this right to the truth, to reparation, to justice, also caused by the death of some of your loved ones, and, above all, the gains of non-repetition of this tragedy experienced by the geriatrics of our country. [[Some applause.]] Thank you. Coming into the matter, today's debate on the constitution of the Board of Inquiry into Residences in the Marque of Covid-19 was supposed to be a move, a very quick thing, because it had been approved unanimously in the previous legislature, and it had lapsed. That's right, against the government parties. There were pending appearances, the legislature ended, the totality of the objectives had not been sunk and there was a commitment to take it back. So I'd have the whole sense of the world back on this commission, huh? So it doesn't look like that's gonna happen today. And how did we get here? Here is a data on the management of the Generalitat de Catalunya during the last years around public health and social affairs: we had retails of 5,135_million euros between 2009 and 2017, privatizations and outsourcings of services, retails at the level of labor, economic and social rights to socio-health personnel, an abscess of anti-social residences with the norm..., almost noranta_per_cent of management places in private hands, and, of course, also amiguism and revolving doors. All this has contributed to the weakening of socio-health services so hard that we have today. Res is casual, but causal. This morning, for example, from Juntes per Catalunya, a study commission was asked to study the deficit that the State has with Catalonia, and this seems very good to us, but because a commission that investigates and quantifies each of the deaths due to neglect of guidelines and protocols or the consequences that the system of residences, hypermerchantilized and focused on the economic benefits, that we have because of the neoliberal policies and retails that from Convergence were protagonists during the last decade and that Esquerra Republicana did not have the courage to reverse? What relationship did this have with the policies... in the geriatrics' collapsing during the pandemic? How long do we ask a commission to study this? But, well, why do we think we should continue with the work of the investigation committee? So why now is the best time; now we're not close to the crisis. For Esquerra Republicana, at the time, being still in the midst of a health crisis was the motivator to oppose this commission of inquiry that set in motion the May 2020. But groups that signed the previous committee of inquiry now are far away, like the Socialist Party, which has certainly allied itself with the Republican Left and Together to do the same as the Right of Help is doing in Madrid, and it is forbidden and not allowed to investigate themselves in depth and with the rigour that the collapsing that there was at the residences. This strategy was very much on the line of "passing the page that Mr. Salvador Illa said during the election campaign. So it seems that now government parties are buying this fact of passing the page selectively – for some things yes and for others no; not for those who involve taking political responsibilities – and, well, I guess we'll never know why this happens. Let's hope the appearance has the opportunity to explain itself. And what the Socialist Party and the governing parties are setting up is a group of designated political experts, saying, moreover, that it was a failure of the committee of the last legislature, since – and here I do comets – « there were some sessions where there were not even so many political or expert participants. What you want to say, from the Socialist Party, is that you see plataformas such as Llars per Viure, witnesses of families of the coordinator..., or, well, perhaps the Federation of Associations of Great Gent of Catalonia, which gather witnesses of the same great people and resident people, perhaps they do not have the fish or the relevancy enough for so long as you consider it a valid knowledge? In addition, I would like to note that, in its intervention, the PSC, if it wants, explains how the voice of families will be incorporated – that there has not been any repair exercise yet –..., and that these have become experts, because the same experience of going through a process like this, of absolute despair, has made them rigorous and become experts on these issues, documenting neglects that today continue to violate the rights of the family, from the protocols that from Health and the Department of Social Rights are opening up; still today they are following great people who are healthy or are asking the family members who are waiting for three residents in the street, something that they feel is not. But, well, then how do we get from here? Here we make it very clear to the family, to the entities, to the workers that here will not end the compromise we have from the Common We can clarify the truth about your loved ones, to do a repair exercise that still need you and to lay the foundations of a new model of aging, dependence and cures that once and for all put the big people in the center. We believe that without rigorously and transparently assessing what has happened and what has failed, a new model cannot be built. We need to learn lessons and avoid repeating mistakes, but we need to act quickly now, and that is why the urgent priorities we are proposing should be: firstly, to commission an independent audit with depth, of course, without warning, since the last one was more than fifteen years ago, which examines both the management of the general residences as well as the management of the government during the health crisis of covid-19, as well as the impact that the pandemic had on these centres, and with the aim of improving the model; I suppose that this will also be one of the objectives of the groups. Second place, accelerate the reinforcement of primary care at residential centers. In principle, it is something to work from the social health agency that has been said by the government that it will be created, but we need this before yesterday, that it is guaranteed that there is a reference of each CAP and that each resident has a professional reference of salvation, and that this privatization also of salvation to the residences. In the third place, the reports; establish a minimum rate of one geriatric board for every four people for each turn, have a medical nurse service twenty-and-four hours a day, expansion of extra hours established for the rest of the technical staff with physiotherapists, occupational therapists, psychologists, educators, etc., essential for a salvation..., a notion of integral salvation for the residents. And, fourth place, training. For proper attention to the calderia residents at least guarantee, also from the Generalitat, a regular training of nursing assistants with speciality in geriatrics. We need to work on hard marches right now in which model of aging we want for our country and for our cities. Residence is a model that is valid for those people with higher degrees of dependence, but other people are left out, and we need to find a more transitory and more appropriate model. We need to walk in a coordinated and organized way to build a decent model of aging, to make those people who have left their whole lives to build this country have a decent end of life, and that is why we will fight tirelessly, from the hands of families and entities, to defend life and truth. And here you'll find us. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.198.0	Next, and on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mrs Anna Grau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.199.0	Thank you, President. Thank you to the people who visit us today in the guest gallery. Thank you for giving us this opportunity. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, now that I believe that we are already aware of each other, you and I, and that I have seen how they spend a lot of you, and perhaps even you have already taken an idea of how I spend it, let me begin this intervention by saying that you have said that the servant is especially proud to have taken the step of entering politics, and to have done it in a game like City. I am proud to go out today to the Faristol of this chamber to defend on behalf of my noble parliamentary group this proposal for a resolution to create a commission of inquiry on the management of residences for large people during the pandemic. I would also like to congratulate the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for being there, in this proposal, so as not to allow that something that the last legislature was able to approve thanks to the fact that the majority had it – but shame too – so I did not stop the paper of this Parliament and history, yet. Thank you, ordinary, for not breaking up with you. Thanks for not thinking that nine thousand dead to the Catalan residents of the great people are worth less than a government pact, present or future, or a pact of assumptions. Before we get nervous, no one here claims that all and every one of the nine thousand dead to the residents of the great people during the cove could have been avoided. Surely not, but there's enough with a few hundred, a few dozens, there's enough with a sun to avoid doing things in another way to justify the creation of this commission one and two thousand times. The past legislature, the present legislature, the one you see and all that you want. And who says avoid death, say avoid death in a bad way. That it is not the same good thing to die that to turn off is left in the hand of God, alone, unattended, drowning you because you do not have a breather, nor the proper sedatives and comfort and without power nor fire your family. I was a journalist and only a journalist, but nothing less than a journalist, when the secret began to run in voices that the poor management of the covid was turning some residences for older people into death rowers. That I was failing everything because everything was wrong. A model of obsolete residences, in the first place, because it was intended for when the elderly did not become so much and did not require such complex medical care for so long. Many people of good faith thought before the coven that bringing the bird to the residence was like keeping him half-hospitalized. Not to see, or worse yet, all the contrary, because our system of cruelly underfunded salvation, covered with piles of straw to store some bestial flaps, there was to face the col·lapse, not only the residents of the great people did not have the necessary resources, but it was there, to be in a residence supposed, sometimes, a difficult obstacle to reach a hospital. They made very hard decisions; they also made very hard other decisions that they failed to make. There was only one coalition government that was barely achieved with a party that ran Social Centers and the other Salutation, battles like cats and dogs, competing over the competitions– that is not the responsibility–, overflowing with all the gangs, and the capdavall, praising the horror of its management under a thick layer of silence that remained alive, very alive. All members of the three parliamentary groups who today have the stomach to vote against the creation of this committee of inquiry: Esquerra, Juntes and the PSC. What are you guys up to? What does he do to make them know? That there were large people parked, not attached, with communications with the interfered family, when you don't cut in dry? What are the families that for protesting, for having liked to take the public light out of circumstances, astounding, that enveloped the death of their parents, they saw themselves in the capdavall denounced to the police, to the Mossos d'Esquadra, as if they had disconnected on their own the breather of the bird or the avia? Ask a lawyer that many of you know well, Mrs. Olga Tubau, if you know any case that looks like it, because I did know him as a journalist, this one and others. I came up with stories so gross that they couldn't and didn't publish on the spot, so as not to increase the families' patience and why, let's just say it all, a few communication media would have liked..., if anyone would have liked it. There have been days, ladies and gentlemen, that today I'm my fellow Members of Parliament, that I'm going to pass on the phone calling all the politicians of the world I knew, it was the same if they were from Ciutadans, the PSOE, the PP or Podemos. To all those who used to use the phone, he explained to them what was going on, what was going on here and there, the people were explaining to me, and he was preaching to them before it was too late, he was begging them to do something. Okay. Now we are here, voting for something that in the background is as little as an investigation commission in an autonomous parliament, and it seems that the gates of hell are being opened. Once again, thanks to Ciutadans's company for being like me, not to flow on this subject, thanks to the commons not to flow either, not to lend you to the conspiracy of silence that there is so that we never know exactly what happened, which failed to the residences of the great people. Someone has to have the emotion and dignity others don't have. Gentlemen of the PSC, I will be forgiven for saying so clearly: who understands them, who buys them. Look, I'm making a great effort at maquiavelism, I can hear Esquerra and Junts voting against this commission of inquiry, because I don't think you're making them a drop of grace that the shames of his management are left at the discovery. But Mr. Illa that you are in heaven, since here not, you have been Minister of Health, nothing less, you must know, I don't know if better than anyone, but surely better than many of us, the scope of the Generalitat's responsibility and irresponsibility in the management of the pandemic, that I don't think you realize it has been bad, by many photos taken with Alba Vergés saying otherwise. Would it cost them so much, so much to stand firm in this matter? Do you mind not disturbing this government to which you pretend to oppose, when you actually rub your hands dreaming of tripartites and trembling, or at least keeping the political breather connected to Pedro Sánchez so as not to be able to mark distances with this indignity? Is this the PSC? Is this the famous useful vote? [[Greetings.]] Look, they are not asked to think that nothing bad happened, they are not asked to listen to families broken by pain, injustice and sometimes even infamy. Just don't bother those we want to listen to, let us do the work, ours and yours, which you don't want to do. Would it be so terrible to set up a committee of inquiry, a small parliamentary committee of inquiry, that we are not talking about the Nuremberg trials either? Does it seem to you and your majority to be willing to try to change, rather than a committee of inquiry, to do something like a council of experts, which is obviously well-received and controlled by the usual? A kind of CAC like TV3? The CAC of Residences? [[Greetings.]] Look, every time someone in a public debate or wherever is trying to shut me up with the argument that Ciutadans now only has six Members in this Parliament, when he became thirty-and-six. I endure wick, with all the patience I have – which is not much, the truth – and when I finally get sick of it I say: that when Ciutadans had thirty-six deputies some around here did not give him reason, nor will they give it to us again when we have a majority again. The same thing I say to you today: pass the roller as much as you want, brag with pride when, for what you charge, it is to make opposition. But now having quite a few more Members than they had before, when they saw well that this was being investigated, they have much less dignity and much less reason. What happens, that you only defend the just causes when you face the face and face the government already do others, when you have no political cost or risk? At least the commons, who don't make ascos to a good government pact..., on this issue have been able to mubut-mull. We know they didn't make it easy, like they didn't want us to make it easy. And let me say that this makes us worthy of our respect and honors them. Thanks also to all the other groups who, whatever their relationship with the Government, have also bought their vote in favour. And now, when the time comes for the truth and the vote, whoever carries in the bag, in the wallet a picture of his father, his mother or his grandparents, who looks at it well before giving him the button, and they tell me what it feels like. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.200.0	Then, to fix its position, has the word, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Units for Progress, the deputy Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.201.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member will advise, representatives of the entities that are accompanying us today in this House of Parliament, the proposal that they are carrying today, common and citizens, sets out the objective: to investigate, to know what is going on in our country. And in this they will find us, they have always found us; they have always found us. They found us on the first fifteen days after the outbreak of the pandemic, when we warned that it was absolutely necessary to intervene in the management of the pandemic in the residential area. They found us in the fierce criticism of the disastrous management that the Government of the Generalitat from the residential system and from the covid to the residents. Shameful managed what the Government of the Generalitat did. They also found us in the monogram of residences that our parliamentary group promoted in July, where we debated seventy proposals – seventy proposals, Mrs Gonzalez. Those from the audience are already voted on. It's nothing again. He's already done this job. Let's say what our residential model was at the Millorament Study Commission of the Quality of Life of the Great Gent. We haven't talked about the model many times, if we agree with the model to be made. And we co-signed the Residence Research Commission that we did in the last semester of 2021. Certainly, a commission to investigate the residential model, because it changed the title at the last minute; not the impact of the covid, the residential model. A commission of inquiry where, of course, the technical head of the government gave his face – head – where the two advisers who came here did so at the penultimate session, eager for opposition groups, which we demanded to come, before the commission ended, to give his face. A commission of inquiry where one hundred and fourteen appearances were proposed – this means two years of commission functioning –; among others, people so uplifting, so directly related to this issue like Constellera Carme Capdevila, of social welfare, of the year 2006, or Constellera Marina Geli. If there was no intention of extending this to me, to come and explain it to me. Where, still the urgency of the time and the importance of the topic and the hundred and fourteen proposals for appearance, there were days when we did not make any appearance. And that was decided by the presidency of the committee, the CUP and the independent parties, which were the members of that committee of inquiry. Look, I'm sure some of the people here who defend the commission of inquiry weren't there. We do. And probably, after that experience, some of the people who defend the commission of inquiry as it is a commission of inquiry may change their minds at these times. The conclusions that we drew..., the few that we drew, because, effectively, the family members and some representatives of the employers came and explained..., no one from the government, no one directly responsible. What did we get out of it? That, indeed, the great people were not transferred to a hospital when they needed it; people who were in residence were placed before the barrier of public health. That, indeed, there was an absolute lack of coordination on the part of the government with its own sector, that one_me after the outbreak of the pandemic there were two-hundred residencies of which there was no information at all. That the arrival of Salvation to the residences was positive. Indeed, this was also a conclusion. That there were drawings of unrelated protocols, too. Mirin, there was no compromise to resume the commission. It's not true, it's not true. There is no such compromise. The creation of that committee was agreed for all Members and Members. Not this; the one you propose, not. And, of course, to make this parallelism that, if I do not approve the commission of investigation that they propose common and Ciutadans, is that I do not want to investigate what happened..., as if this were Sesame District, as if the people who listen to us do not have two fingers in front, it seems to me that it is not up to what this Parliament deserves, because, moreover, it is not true. It is a lie, and you have played this, the simplicity, the simplicity of an argument that will lead you nowhere but to recognize that what you are doing is partisanism, precisely with this proposal for the creation of a committee. And I explain why. Because you have to be a little more serious, too, when it comes to dealing with what has happened. We agree with the objective, but we do not agree with the mechanism, and I will tell you why. We are committed to knowing to the end what happened in the residences. We want to make..., we want to make a mechanism made to measure, a mechanism that escapes from partyism, that goes to the center of the problem, that seeks responsibilities and, what is more important, that puts the reforms so that what happened did not happen again. We want to know what happened. That's why we registered the creation of a group of experts and Members of Parliament in a working group within the Social Rights Commission weeks ago, appointed experts for each of the parliamentary groups, who, with the ability to work independently, are bringing us to conclusions, within a time frame that we set up, so that we know what it is that has been going through and that we, the experts, what we need to change – that's what we need to change – because, this is the way, under our point of view, better to try and not find ourselves again in a situation that we're going to find ourselves in. A group of experts with the possibility to ask for documentation, which you consider opportune to see together people, with entities, with the collectivities, with the people of the government you consider adient, with services of emergency, professionals of the field of salvation... In this, all of you agreed, all of you. Commonly, he abstained. This has already been approved by you at the general policy debate. Motion for a resolution number 12. All parliamentary groups, with the forbearance of commons. « The Parliament of Catalonia is committed to creating a working group within the Commission of Social Rights to analyse the impact of covid-19 on our residential system for large people and people with disabilities, with the participation of experts and experts who analyze the measures taken, identify the fevers and solutions intended to strengthen our system of cures. They all approved it. Therefore, we may differ in who is the mechanism, but you agree in who is the mechanism you want. And someone will say: "No, we want everything. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But it can't be. And, therefore, we consider that this, which is the majority – which is the majority – is what we must try to put on the march. So, Mrs. Grau..., less pine kisses, less prayer and more reading I know what you have approved [[applause]] – read more about what they have approved. And lessons of dignity... – with your vote in favour, absolutely – and your lessons of dignity you keep, among other things, because I believe that what we have come here to do among all is to exercise responsibility. We're getting to know each other, as you say, I hope that we all recognize each other, that it's much more important than knowing each other, that and that we respect each other, too, right? I can absolutely disagree with you, all I ask is the same respect for our Members as I have for you, eh? We can diverge, we can have different opinions, but what needs to be done is to respect each other. Our formula has been widely explained. It has been fully explained. He registered with the Parliament of Catalonia a few weeks ago. This register, moreover, has been transparent. You'll see the Social Rights Commission. I therefore hope, among other things, that those groups who consider this to be a good mechanism, as they said to the general policy debate, therefore, that they can vote. The mechanism that you propose for a commission of inquiry will not come forward; if you investigate – and investigate – what went on to the residences will be with this mechanism, which is the one that generates the most majorities in this Parliament. And to be as delicate as this, to put the needle wire that we need to be major, and not to try to make the opportunity of a proposal to record it first, to be the first, to say that we do want to investigate and not the rest. And you don't have any leftovers. I don't say so much for you, but yes for the argument used by the lady of Ciutadans. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm done. We want to know what happened. And now, out of this agreement, let's say, what we have come to with the Republican Left and with Together, we as the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because we want to get to the bottom of the issue, we think that the best experts and the best experts fall. And we can't make a pool of experts and experts without the sight of family members, the representation of family members. And, therefore, in this committee of inquiry, we propose that there be a representation of the family members. [[remorse of the voice]] , who are the ones who have represented the people who have left us during all these months. One thing that you can't do to the Board of Inquiry that you're part of. Here is the difference of the mechanism, here is to try to spin first to try to achieve, in the best way possible, the objectives that we propose ourselves. Therefore, this is our proposal, ladies and gentlemen, we hope that it will continue to be set up in line with the Social Rights Commission and that, therefore, we can reach the end of what happened in Catalonia in the residential sector. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.202.0	Next, and on behalf of the VOX Parliamentary Group, the Member of the House has the word Mónica Lora.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.203.0	Well, thank you. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies. The representatives of the entities and the different plataforms that today accompany us in this plenary session, welcome. Before anything else I do preach to the President of the Parliament that I leave me to make a small element of what has happened to Igualada..., and it is that from our parliamentary group we want to show our most absolute revulsion towards the rape suffered by a 16-year-old girl in Igualada. And I hope they all do so without exception. And from here we want to send all our support and affection to this victim and also to his family at these difficult times. And let all the weight of the law fall on these aggressors, and let us hope that sooner or later in Spain we will have life imprisonment for these kinds of beasts, because they have no other name. [[Greetings.]] Thank you. I follow and focus on the order of the day point on the commission of inquiry on the management of the residents of the great people. Well, Catalonia is the second autonomous community of Spain with more deaths in residents, almost two thousand dead, 3,370 infected. And only in Barcelona, with the date of this year, there are 230 investigations opened for the management of the residents in Catalonia, names reported by collectors of workers of the residents on the harmful management of the Government of the Generality. Do they really believe from the government, from the Junts and from the Socialist Party, that these data do not deserve a thorough investigation? Do they really believe that by respect for the victims, that by respect for the relatives of the victims and, ultimately, by respect for the conjunction of the Catalan society, this Parliament does not have the moral obligation to approve this proposal for the creation of a commission of inquiry to know precisely what happened to the darkest hours during the pandemic to the residents of Catalonia? And it's that our duty and obligation, like political representatives that we are from Catalans, is not to pass the page so, no more, on what happened to the residents in Catalonia. And it is that the value of a society is precisely measured by how it treats the most vulnerable, and, in this sense, we could also say that the value of politics is measured by how it treats the most fragile and dependent of society. And it is necessary to denounce once more, because it is to be done, the incapacity of the Generality of Catalonia, as the most responsible of the residents of Catalonia, the inability to protect our great people when they needed it most, immigrating from a pandemic that has been fatal for many of them. And it's that the government turned large people's residences into authentic morgues, and they also denied them spiritual attention and the "kindness of a family member in their last moments and when they needed it the most. And it's that what happened to the residences is a shame, it's unworthy and it's an aberration. And we believe that this commission of inquiry is necessary for three main reasons. First, because it is necessary to develop, formalize and document a non-ideological diagnosis of what has happened during the darkest hours of the pandemic to the residents of Catalonia, with specific data, updates and audits by entities – very important – not political. Secondly, because it is a moral duty, it is a moral duty to be able to give explanations to the affected families, but above all, it is a moral duty to be able to look at the faces of these families and to be able to say that this Parliament has done everything possible to clear political responsibilities. And thirdly, because it's our responsibility to ensure that what happened never happens again. For this reason, this committee of inquiry considers that it must also serve precisely as a future projection in order to bring about a comprehensive reform of the public system of residences and geriatrics that guarantees precisely the highest possible welfare, dignity and affection to the best of our society, which are our great people. And we are sure, including, that many representatives of the government party will surely have the same opinion as we do, but they are calling for political militancy. Because, over the interests of the citizens, we find that there are, in this case, the Government, therefore the interests of its political party. And they are experts in using Turkish heads to outsource blame and responsibilities. And it's not fair, because it's not fair that it's widespread and it's given the blame to some professionals and some workers who were on the front line of the battle in the worst moment of the pandemic with the few resources they had. And our approach to the Commission deals precisely, therefore, with seeking responsibilities and political negligence, and not accusing the workers and professionals who were on the front line of the battle in the pandemic. And do you know what the structural cause of the problem of residences in Catalonia is? The political direction of the Government of the Generality, because they care about the real problems of Catalans, and they show us once more with their inopportunity. Or what do I think, for example, of the more than one thousand large or dependent people who are waiting for access to a residence or a day center? What do I, for example, mean by this, from the Government of the Generality? Disit_thousand_five hundred people, to be exact. But what to expect in this case, right? , of the Government of the Generality, if they have already made it clear to us with their priority lines of government presented recently: green transformations, feminist transformations, democratic transformations, and, to decorate a little and to make up shame, also social. And in the face of its green transformations, its feminist and democratic transformations will find our actions focused on the real and everyday problems of Catalans and our love and respect and support the most fragile heads of our society, as are our great people. And, finally, I leave them with a few words representing a collection of public-owned residences: "The residents will be left to die in an absolutely unworthy condition. Simply, they'll consider themselves indispensable. No one has asked for forgiveness or assumed any responsibility, and it is time, honourable Members, to ask for forgiveness and take responsibility. I think if you're conscious, this whole room would approve of this proposal. And then I would like to comment on it to the Socialist Party... – not the Veja, excuse me – to the Socialist Party I would ask you that it is a lot of groups of experts appointed to say precisely, therefore, for the parties that have placed them there, because precisely these experts what they will do is say, do and undo what they say to these parties back that they have put them in this group of expert groups. Therefore, what I would ask is a little more serious and respect, taking into account what we are talking about, for a question of respect for victims and relatives of victims and for the entities and different plataforms that are accompanying us here today at this plenary session. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.204.0	Then, and on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - A New Cycle to Win, has the word Mrs Basha Change's deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.205.0	Thank you, President. Well, with 2020 data, according to the Idescat, 7,902 victims per resident cove; almost thirty per cent of total mortal victims were more than sixty-five years old in residents across the country. In this sense, since Parliament, the last legislature has done various things. It was, first, a series of local motions through which the country's governors and governors found the necessary consensus, asking, almost unanimously to all the municipalities, investigation by Parliament and measures by the Government of the Generality. A monogram ple was made in this same room where it was discussed enough about the problem and the management model and, specifically, the covid effects. And it was also done, as a result of this, a commission of inquiry, during the last legislature, which, at the end of this commission, took over this commitment – which, yes, existed – to resume this commission because the appearances had not ended. And that's why we're here today, because there was this unanimous consent. What happened? Let us have this debate again about the table and find ourselves various things. First, some presses that cause you not to be available to hold the necessary debates to hold the consensus at the time of entering a petition like this. Because it's very easy to want to take the photo, which is all very well, but you will have to have the political conversations necessary at the time to submit the proposals in this room. We also found, surprisingly, an alliance between the Socialist Party, the Republican Left and the Junts, which sees that they are already heating up engines to agree on things, and so they have this agreement to drop a commission of inquiry in which they participated and asked enough in the last legislature. For one group, the Socialist Party comments that we must take the lead, that the measures and mechanisms must be accurate, that they must be measured. And as long as he's a midget fan! Because the difference between a commission of inquiry and a group of experts is, first, that a commission of inquiry cannot easily escape appearances as in a working group. So, of course, when we don't want Mr. Illa to show up, so it's much better to do it through a group of experts than in an investigation committee. A commission of inquiry also gives tools to families who, unfortunately, are in legal proceedings for having to resort to this measure for institutional inaction. It's a tool that only gives this board of inquiry. So, to determine and clear these responsibilities, to give tools to families who are in legal proceedings and to make reparation for these families and a guarantee of non-repetition in studying the model, the specific tool is a commission of inquiry. Let's talk about experts, in this proposal that for the media we've known that they're playing these three games, that, we remember, they're building alliances with a model of trying to work things out, huh? We find them talking about experts. The experts are the workers who ate this crisis. The experts are the families who have eaten this crisis and who are still weeping for their deaths and their deaths, and who, we recall, another time, have started legal proceedings before the inaction of both local and state and autonomous institutions. I can't really investigate this, to find out that the problem is the management model; the management model that is now basically private: of the 65,000 seats available in the country, fifty_ thousand are in the hands of private companies and entities. It's barbaric. Because the 11 business groups that control most of these places – as they can't be in any other way to be entrepreneurs, for much of their social economy and solidarity, and for much of their self-organisation in cooperatives – are still doing business, they are still managing public services without public control and taxation and provisioning. So, they're king for the lucre. When the work is the one that focuses these decisions and we are not basing ourselves on social well-being, on dignified life or on criteria of salvation, what we have, therefore, is a bad result. We can look into it a lot, but the problem is the management model. The lucre is at the cost of, first, lowering the working conditions of the workers through lack of PPE, low wages, excessive hours, lack of staff who have to bend turns and turns ad etherum and without any type of guarantee of improvement. And the work is also done through degrading conditions of care for residents, with less care, with less hygiene and worse nutrition, and perpetuating practices as surprisingly harmful as the re-use of bowlers. Please, ladies and gentlemen, this must be thoroughly investigated. And it's not a question that comes from the cove and the pandemic; this is a perpetuation of bad practices that private companies do because the only objective they have is to lower costs to increase their benefits. The deaths are not just the result of the pandemic, but the result of treating people like goods. Therefore, such a change of management model, first, that internalisation this managed with a provision and managed one hundred_per_cent public and universal; that guarantees the medical and nursing service the twenty-four hours bring the residential care teams of private hands passing them to public hands; that guarantees a decent working conditions for workers and workers, with minimum salaries of one thousand_two hundred_euro at fourteen tables, with minimum durations of one manager for each four resident persons, considering the staff to care for the residents as health personnel, so that they subscribe to the Siscat agreement while there is no such internalisation of the service, and including all these measures in the contract departures that are not part of the contract. It is necessary to increase inspections at least twice a year, and without warning, because, of course, if we warn of inspections, it has not just been carried out. To democratize the participating agencies among the resident participation councils. Prioritize the autonomy of people exploring other public alternatives, such as community floors and intergenerational inclusive. There are many measures that can be explored. There is also a plan for the construction of new residences with finance, ownership and management of one hundred_per_cent public, and the request of local administrations, the transfer of skills to local authorities with the corresponding budgetary endowment. In short, we need to clear up responsibilities, and this will not be said to us by a group of experts, this has its mechanisms, which is through an investigation committee, if we want the results to serve the most expert people on this impossible issue, who are the workers of the service and the families of users and users. Now, more than ever, we can bet on public management with the participation of the administrations, the workers and the family, to guarantee the lives worthy of the residents, which must be the only and priority focus, and the rest of the questions, like economic questions, must be relegated to a _second plan. So far, according to the measures taken in the past, during and after the pandemic, it has not been a real priority for the parties that have ruled the country in the last few years, which are curiously the three that have conxorxed themselves to curb this commission of inquiry. We need to clear up responsibilities, because both families and workers are fed up with so much bureaucracy and parliamentary cretinism, that the only thing that it does is to avoid the "wrap" of return matches. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.206.0	Next, and on behalf of the Mixed Group, Mrs Eva Parera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.207.0	Thank you very much, President. I would like to start my intervention with a record for all the victims who died alone, without the company of their family members, and also a thank you to the resident workers for having faced a very complicated time, and I know it from the first hand because my brother is one of them and the truth is that I saw him cry many times. What passed to the residences, as a result of government decisions, was a shame and was an aberration. Some of Salut's advisers have drawn up a protocol that establishes, and I quote literally, "that the decision-making process should be based on providing resources to those patients who are most likely to benefit in terms of years of life saved, and asked to avoid entries in "patients with few benefits"—"patients with few benefits. I really don't know how they could put that down or write it down. They denied medical assistance to great people knowing it was a death sentence. I know – I know – and so they wrote this document and circulated it and made these decisions. This is a violation of human rights, sirs. So clear – so clear. Tell him who's telling him, he's looking at me like he's looking at me. It's a human rights violation. More than nine thousand people have died in the residences. Only between March and April 2020 did about four thousand large people live in residences die; seventy-two per cent of these deaths were produced from their own residence, because they were not derived from a hospital centre, because the government gave orders that it is not derived from a hospital centre. Residents are not hospitals, they were not prepared to stop the virus, they were not provided with PPE to protect residents or workers facing a pandemic. It is not controlled if the periodic tests are completed by the user and the workers. They had no health or care resources. There was a clear lack of personnel, and when someone was laying low for malalty there was a drama, in that residence. There was labor insecurity, which is still there today. There were staff who went from residence to residence, and if they were infected and asymptomatic, they carried the virus from residence to residence. They denied hospital care to residents; they made distinctions between public and private residences, at a time when everyone needed the support of the Administration; there was no coordination between administrations, and even more they declined the support of private sanitation, without any justification. And I probably left some more barbarity in me. And no one – no one – took on any political responsibility. The only one they did was to change the competitions of hands in the government and there was no king here. And more so with a statement as absurd as that of President Torra said: "It is that we cannot make anyone resign nor can anyone cease because we must avoid tensions between the members of the government. Please! It was more important to preserve the coexistence between governing partners than to rectify and guarantee the survival of the great people. Shame, very shame. There is a glaring lack of transparency throughout the management of the pandemic, beginning with the decisions of the Procicate. We have asked many times, and we have asked for it by writing, that copies of the acts of the Procicate be given to us. We're still waiting. Today, this lack of transparency is covered by the parties that support the government and, what is worse, by the party that supposedly has to oppose, and that seems to have decided to become a governing partner in the shadow. That the head of the opposition, who was minister of health when the government decided to close the residences and give him the key to let his residents die, today has gone to the opacity that the government wants to keep is incomprehensible. This isn't the useful vote you promised, it's hard for me to say. And the excuse cannot be that it will create a committee of experts to improve the management of residences; it is not incompatible one thing with the other, in fact, it is complementary: we need to know the mistakes made in order not to make them again. And it seems that, by your vote, this will not happen today; we will not know the mistakes made. Please, think about it, just rectify it, take measures to give support to the residents of large people who have given their faces at a very complicated time, who have been at the side of the residents seeing how they died. Or do they think they don't hurt him, that? They cry every one of the dead they've got in there; they cry and they've left them abandoned, and they need to clear up responsibilities. And that is why today we will give our vote in favour of this proposal, unfortunately and unfortunately that it does not prosper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.208.0	Then, and on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for Catalonia, has the words of Mr Ferran Roquer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.209.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, public that it is here, the first thing I want to say to all these groups that have come out here to speak before I is that we want to know, like all of them, what happened in the residences. And we want to know, and that's why we introduced an instrument to know. The instrument presented by the majority of this chamber does not serve to know what went on to the residences; in change, the instrument that will not go out voted, will not have the favorable votes here today, it serves. Where'd you see this? You can't tell us that we don't want to know the truth. We want to know – we want to know – how we seem to know it. Among other things, because in our own way we will know more quickly than if we expect an investigation commission in which people go through, they go through weeks and it goes in addition to the other commissions that this Parliament has. Nor does anyone escape the situation that existed in this country and in Western Europe on March 2020. In March 2020 there was a dramatic health situation, the protection of the right to salvation went over and above phonental rights. We didn't move. We had the unknown, we had no cows, there were no basic sub-administrations. All this, in the residences, affected with much greater measure that did not affect society in general. Here, a recognizance, of all color, to the professionals of the residences [[background and applause]] If we hadn't given up which we wouldn't have, we wouldn't have, it would have been a lot more, a lot more complicated. And here too, it's complicated to tell a person who's visited a lot of residences and who's gone and who's been... and who's gone many times to residences and talked to a lot of residents. The most heartfelt condolences, my friend, and from my parliamentary group, to all the people who were not able to either welcome their family members. A dramatic, unjust and undeserved situation for people who have brought us here, people who have suffered from war, post-war, dictatorship, all the crises that came, and all these people have seen this situation, meaning undeservedly, as I have just said. And of these, of all these residences that I had visited, those that were smaller than those that were more familiar, those that were more interacting with the community perhaps are the residences in which it was better, but in which it was harder – in which it was harder – to find a solution to a pandemic that at that time is not known at all. Some residences that were created at a time when people who voluntarily stayed alone at home came to life, came to live with other people, and when the law of dependence appeared, they changed, changed users. And I want to give them some of the users of the 2011-2017 residences. In 2011-2017, people living in the residences had a median of two years more than people, from sixty-four years onward, living outside the residences. They had a higher mortality rate: 20,6_percent of people, annual mortality rate, 20,6 of people living in residences, 3,13 people of sixty-four living outside residences. The number of chronic diseases, and especially dementias, multiplied by four. 46,47_percent of people who are in residence had a dementia. To people who were away and were more than sixty-four years old, this date was 4.58. More malaise, more chronification, etc. Fortunately, vaccination, the change of practice between residents, has caused the affectation of successive waves to be much smaller than there was in principle. In fact, last week there were eight people living in admitted residences and there was zero success. Listen to me, we're convinced that you could have done a lot better, you could have done better. You should have done a lot better. Passing the competitions to Salut was a success. It's gonna work. In fact, justice is making its way, and Parliament has to make its way, and we don't need excuses, because we could use the excuse to say: in the Spanish State, circumstances were similar. Nor does it serve us to say that Europe has experienced similar things, or that someone... in some areas has hidden data, or that the Government of Catalonia assumes eighty-five percent of the cost of the Administration for the treatment of dependence, and that the law of dependence requires that this assumption be fifty per cent of the State and fifty per cent of the Generality. Or that this gave a historical debt of 3,649_millions. Or that the minimum guarantees for a grade 3 resident in the general assumptions of the State of 2022 is 250_euros, when a residence for a grade 3 dependent costs more than 1,900_euros. Or that in 2022 the general assumptions of the State do not maintain the covid fund, which have generated expenditure resorting to the Generality. All this could be said as an excuse, and we don't want to say it or want it to be used as an excuse, but I said it. (Rialles the applause.) We need to create a new model of care for dependent people, a new model that acts proactively; a new model that counts on large people in the design of this model; a new model that complements Article 19 of the International Convention on the Rights of the Disabled, that says that "people have right to live independently of the community and that everyone has the opportunity to choose where and with whom they want to live, on the same terms as other people; or whether they want to live at home, or if they don't want to live in a home, at the only place they can go to is a home? Can't he go to a piss with servants? Can't you go to a cohabitation or a protected piss? All this needs to determine a new model of care for dependent people. Caregivers, whether professional or not, are sufficiently prepared to care for dependent people, are they? Are they sufficiently remunerated? Are they sufficiently valued for society? Have we been able to apply information and communication technologies to improve people's economies? The pandemic has exposed many of our system's shortcomings, many of them. We no longer have the pressure we have on the residents, because the disease has flowed, as we have explained. There are opportunities for improvement. It is necessary to analyse what has happened; it is necessary to analyse it from the work done, with people who know the socio-health world, who meet with whom they seem, with whom they grow and feel opportune to uncover the causes of what has happened, which they assess, which they speak to. It seems to us that a commission of inquiry with all that has been done by the Dozene Legislature, the commission of study and the commission of inquiry and the whole monogram, is not the most appropriate instrument, because I don't know how far it will go from the pandemic until we have a successful outcome. Cal value technical aspects with long-looking professional – long-looking, long-looking. From Juntes, we believe that this instrument is a working group that makes an accurate analysis, with perspective, that evaluates the causes of the impact that it has had on the residents of large people and the residents of disabilities, that knows which bad ones it has had the system and that it evaluates which changes have to be made so that they do not come back to succeed. For all that I have said, with respect for victims and their families and political responsibility, we have put forward a motion for a resolution to create a working group for the Social Rights Commission which, in terms of six-months– six-months– brings a document with solutions to our system. We think it's the most that can contribute to society's best. In the matter of residences, in the matter of large persons, in the matter of persons, in the matter of social rights, to move more and less to fall apart; to fall apart (applause) by analysing the deficiencies and proposing better in a working group or to fall apart with party bars in a committee of inquiry. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.210.0	I, finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Republican Left, has the word Mrs Najat Driuech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.211.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies,. MPs..., also greet the people who are accompanying us to the hemicicle today. Obviously, a record to all victims; one, too, to their families, and, as it cannot be in any other way, also to the workers who have been, and have demonstrated, in the first line. That said, look, I was having a speech made, which I'm going to read now, but it's that you, the people who have been through here, have offended me a lot with your speeches, with your demagogicity and, above all, with little responsibility. Because we, at least from the Republican Left, the proposal we signed with Juntes for Catalonia and with the Socialist Party is going to answer the following: we want to know what happened, yes; we want to know how it happened, but we also want to know what the solution is because it never happened again. In the same way, we do not want to be here forever, but, in respect of the families, the victims, we want to give them an answer to the most agile possible. And it's good to say – it's good to say – that we have to be on the board of inquiry and that if we don't vote for it, it's that we don't agree. Mirin, from the Republican Left, we've been in all the spaces that we've approved in this chamber in defense of the rights of the great people, always; not like others who have come out today to make magic and who have never come to a commission. Okay? Home... (Some applause.) That said, they know that this pandemic, without precedent, entered all the residences, they were great, they were small; they were public, they were private; they were large cities, they were smaller cities; they had a global impact. Now, let me remind you that you didn't all manage the same way. And, in this State, at the beginning of the health crisis, management control was centralized, changing the entire organizational structure when it was needed more round, extending the proximity service and affecting its efficiency. Despite this, the government tried to react as quickly as possible in order to manage it. Therefore, act on equipment and services in coordination with other departments and teams, actors, social agents, employers' unions; ultimately, they extend their hand to everyone to try to reduce the impact of the pandemic. That is why it was then possible to make the decision as difficult as restricting visits, suspending all types of activities in the centres or restricting common areas, among others; ultimately, prioritizing health criteria, adding with Salut efforts to give a response to the centers of great people, disability, and also mental health. That's why... but all of this happened with the percentage of the oldest population in this country. 2020 was a _percent split of people over sixty-five years old and with a 124.3_per_percent aging index, conditions that flattened on the path because the escalate of the crisis affected by this entire collection, added to the impact of health to professionals, working conditions, etc. They know perfectly well that the residences are the home of the great people and the home of a large part of the great people of our country, and sometimes the great people are the most vulnerable before any adversity, as well as the impact of the covid has made the difficulties worse. All this adds to the fact that the social sector was already, and is, one of the weakest pillars of the welfare state. The impact of the pandemic has rectified all the shortcomings that our system suffers. We need an update on the care model, poor financing, the salaries and conditions of the workers are not what we want, and the private sector's pesso is still considerably ahead of the public. I'll still tell them more, but it's obvious we need another model. What's the model we need, then? We have defended – and we have defended it here, in this chamber – that we must face the inequalities that affect the salvation of the people and require a transversal public action, seeking a more resilient, flexible, adaptable system, and designed for people. So let's rethink how to face the challenge of aging, how to face that by 2050 thirty per cent of the population will have more than sixty-five years, almost one of every three people. We need to make a common front for all of us who are here for the future. We firmly believe, as Councillor El Homrani has already defended in the monogram of the previous legislature, that our model must be that of quality versus price; that of proximity versus standardization, and of the care versus speculation project. In short, working to improve a four-axis system that is based, first, on people-centred care, on territorial balance, is to say, zero-kilometer enveloping, the impulse of home care and in which social and health care is integrated. And for all this we believe that the working group is necessary and to extend the residences of the political slump. Now it touches on another formula, that we analyze a whole group of work to the Commission of Social Rights that is centered on further improving our system of residences, continuing with the analysis of what has failed and the changes that we need to improve, taking advantage of the work done and the people expert in the sector, and obviously, the families, also, giving the country the revision of the necessary model and identifying, from an objective point of view, the way that can be followed and improved. We believe that the last parliamentary term has been debated enough in this chamber, either politically or with question, let us say it politically, to the committee of inquiry. Here, in this hemisphere, the President Torra, the Councillor of Salut, at that time Alba Vergés, or the Councillor El Homrani, of Work, Afers Socials and Families, always gave the face. This cannot be said, of course, either by President Sánchez, or by the Minister, or also by Mrs González, Mr Pablo Iglesias or by Vice-President Pablo Iglesias. And it also provided material, such as the conclusions of the working group of the panel of experts to whom the department commissioned a review of the Catalan system of autonomy and the attention of those who need support. And this work we have to take advantage of and we have to listen to the sector, because it is obvious that there are things that fail and that we need to be able to change it. In short, it will be necessary to address the need for the impetus of public social cooperation and to increase the size of the public sector, thus ensuring a system that responds to the need: clean, flexible and adaptable to the shortcomings of the large people. But, above all, it is only fair to remember, as I said before, as did Companion Roquer, the failure of the Spanish State in the financing of the system. We have a very weak system, in which I think we all agree, and here we also have the responsibility to be able to work and go making contributions that the better. But without resources we have no tools, so we want them all in the form of a republic. We bet on the fraternal model of republicanism, a model that accompanies in a dignified way the big, more inclusive, more autonomous and more gender-sensitive people. A model that guarantees social rights and equal opportunities. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.212.0	Yes, Mrs. Grau? Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.213.0	Good afternoon, President. I would like to ask for the paragraph for Article 87, because of the personal allusions made in his parliament by the socialist deputy, Mr Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2021-11-03-1602.214.0	Mrs Grau, you know perfectly well that you gave her allusions in the course of the debate, when the speakers who are speaking to each other speak, it is not contemplated as allusions, and therefore I do not give her the word. They were speaking, both of them were speaking at this point and, therefore, he referred to his speech, his speech and the person who was bringing it to an end in the conjunction of what is the parliamentary debate. And the article of allusions knows perfectly well that it has nothing to do with this aspect that you are saying here today. The debate is over, so we shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The proposal for a resolution to set up a committee of inquiry into the management of residences for large people has been rejected by 36 votes in favour and 96 votes against. We'll suspend the session until tomorrow morning. Thank you also to the public to accompany us. Thank you very much.
