ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u1	An open letter from the President of the Republic on the amendment implemented by the Government on 17 December 1920 has been distributed to the representatives and entered in the minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u2	The election of the first Vice-President will now be followed by compliance with the provisions of Article 34(2) of the Finnish Constitution and Articles 5 and 6 of the Parliamentary Statute. So the election will be delivered on a full-time basis. Representatives shall bring their ballots to the urn according to the roll call to be made in alphabetical order. Where appropriate, the name of the candidate shall also be identified with sufficient precision using the first name. As assistants for checking ballots and counting votes in the election, I request the following representatives: Antti Lindtman, Jani Mäkelä, Mari-Leena Talvitie and Hanna-Leena Mattila. I note that the votes cast are not made public.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u3	The result of the vote shall be read.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u4	When Mr Filatov has received more than half of the votes cast in the election, he has been elected first Vice-President of Parliament for the remainder of the 2020 Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u5	I would ask the first Vice-President to give Parliament the solemn assurance provided for in Article 4 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u6	I, Tarja Katariina Filatov, assure you that, according to my powers as President, I defend the right of the Finnish people and parliament according to the Constitution. Jag Tarja Katariina Försäkrar att jag som talman effecter all min förmåga skall försvara finska folkets och riksdagens rättigheter enligt constitutionen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u7	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 36/2020 vp. The proceedings were suspended at the plenary session of 17 December 1920. Let us move on to the sectional vote. Presentations and support are made by a parliamentary group at a time. Any corrections to the minutes shall be taken only after the whole section has been voted on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u8	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 December 2020. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 23.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u9	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 December 2020. We shall proceed to the detailed examination of section 31.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u10	The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 17 December 2020. We shall now proceed to the detailed examination of section 33.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u11	Timo Heinonen's proposal 25 and Ville Vähämäki's proposal 26 are of the same content, so they will be voted against together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u12	Presentation of Section 28 on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Finance An hour and a half shall be reserved for the general discussion in the section at this stage. — President of the Section, Mr Filatov.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u13	Mr President! I will therefore present this section's section of the municipal and health finances. In other words, the outlook for local government finances is exceptionally challenging and the situation has been difficult for several years. If we look at last year's financial statements, the local government finances continued to deteriorate and the operating margin weakened by approximately EUR 1.3 billion and the annual margin by approximately EUR 0.3 billion compared to the previous year. Since then, as we all know, the coronavirus pandemic has had an additional impact on local government finances. The Committee considered it very important and also necessary for the government's policy that the direct costs associated with the coronavirus be fully reimbursed by the state to the municipalities for as long as the disease situation and the implementation of the hybrid strategy so require. In the course of this year, the local government finances have been significantly supported by a number of amending budgets and, if seen, the increase in global central government co-financing has been around 1.5 billion. If we take into account all the support measures taken by municipalities in the context of the corona crisis, we are talking about around EUR 3 billion. Local government finances have become stronger than in last year. Of course, subsidies are important, but better tax revenue than forecast and slow expenditure growth have also been the basis for this impact. However, the committee draws attention to the fact that the interest rate subsidy granted through the state aid procedure is imputable and cannot take into account very carefully the actual costs associated with the municipal epidemic. Thus, the increases in the central government share have been higher for some municipalities than the additional costs caused by the pandemic. The Committee stresses that the criteria for granting aid for corona must take greater account of the actual costs of municipalities. In the Committee's view, it will also be necessary to clarify how municipalities have used the interest rate subsidy. Despite this improvement in the local government finances, it is necessary to support the local government finances in the event of a further corona virus epidemic next year. For example, central government transfers of basic services will be increased one-off by EUR 300 million and the 10% increase in the share of municipal corporation tax will continue. Overall, this will increase the tax revenues of local government by 510 million. The committee also attaches great importance to the government's line that 450 million will be allocated to the discharge of the medical and service debt between 21 and 23. State measures as a whole strengthen the local government finances by EUR 865 million, but nevertheless it is important to launch measures that will then balance the local government situation. The Committee notes that increases in state participation granted as a result of the corona epidemic do not remove the structural problem of local government finances; instead, the challenge is to adapt to the post-corona crisis. We know that the number of older people is increasing and for many years it has increased the need for services and social costs. This development is also expected to continue in the beginning of the decade, and at the same time the number of people of working age will decrease. The need for structural reforms to improve the sustainability of the local government sector is thus becoming increasingly topical. We need to look for ways to improve productivity and efficiency in services and to improve employment and the sustainability of the economy in the long term. Municipalities must also strive to create a vitality and economic activity that increases tax revenues and reduces, for example, expenditure on unemployment. The Committee also stresses the development and importance of digital services in municipalities and draws attention to the development needs of the municipal structure. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Government has presented a proposal to amend the Municipal Structures Act, which removes financial obstacles to voluntary municipal associations and encourages voluntary municipal mergers. As mergers would reduce the bureaucratic cooperation structures that municipalities have, this need for cooperation through these difficult structures would not be so and would be possible to dismantle administrative and overlapping activities. Thank you to the Minister for the fact that he has indeed worked towards the creation of additional resources for local government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u14	We will also follow up on the presentation by the President of the Section for Administration and Security, Mr Vähämäki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u15	Honorable Speaker! So the administrative division belongs to the section of the VM. This item is intended to cover the operating expenditure of Customs and is intended to cover an amount of 186 million. It is slightly less than 20 million more than in the current year, and this increase is due to a number of administrative changes. Ict expenditure, among other things, is a major part of this too, and the central point is that the threshold for this minimum VAT to be collected will be abolished. The committee welcomes these additions and welcomes the fact that Customs will take account of future changes and the increasing workload on time. However, it is worth coming back to the issue in the additional budgets for the coming year when you see how many of these Customs declarations actually come in, how much volume growth it is, how much changes in customers' behaviour will emerge and how customers' behaviour will change. In other words, there is indeed a 1.7th change in the way that the minimum VAT to be levied on imports from third countries is abolished. As a result, these minor consignments, i.e. consignments less than 20, must also be cleared. This means that 50 additional lives must be employed in Customs. This figure is also based on the assumption that these notifications can be automated. This increase in volume is quite significant because import declarations have previously been less than one million and this increases to between 13 and 20 million notifications. The committee therefore raises the question of the completion of the overall reform of customs clearance and the associated artificial and technical projects. The committee also draws attention to the absences of Customs. These are 13 days per employee per year, and the management of Customs should carefully examine the reasons for this and pay more attention to well-being at work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u16	At this point, Minister Paatero, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u17	Mr President! Thank you, both sections. I'm feeling a little confused here, 'cause... Customs is not one of my own areas of responsibility, but Minister Vanhanen's territory, but from state administration to other sectors. In other words, I would like to thank the Section for Administration and Security and the Section for Municipal and Health and the entire Committee on Finance for the work that has been done here this year, as every autumn. I'll start with the state administration. Thank you to Parliament for the reform work that has been done in many sectors, and one very important example is this defence property that is formed alongside Senate properties, i.e. its own subsidiary. After all, this was changed in Parliament and, in fact, the autonomy of defence property and its contribution to the budget line was strengthened here too. I have just signed the transfer of these properties, which means that they will be transferred from the Senate to the defence properties, so now the power of decision will be increased there on the Defence Forces side. Another major issue with regard to the Senate is that the mandate now increases to EUR 480 million, i.e. EUR 100 million, an additional mandate, which is necessary because we have a large number of state-owned buildings that need renovations and, on the one hand, this is also one of these revitalising measures which can then increase employment, on the other hand, to increase healthy facilities and thus improve the quality of work and the well-being of people. There are over 50 projects of over 5 million across Finland. Many other projects will also improve labour productivity and take particular account of changes in telework. With regard to public procurement and human resources management, for example, new types of information systems and digital steps will be taken forward. With regard to so many other issues that have now been the strategy, we will be able to reach the implementation stage next year, and many of them relate to the same digitality, teleworking, multi-spatial work and many others that have developed extensively during the course of the corona. These are also, of course, partly included in this sustainable growth programme, which combines these public and private projects, and one of these will also be the difference between digital business and business activities and the way it will be handled in the future for many agencies and services. We need visitation, but when it has been reduced all the time, how can we secure its support for users of digital services or, on the other hand, make digital services even better? The network is also optimised for joint service points. Then, to this section's share, which is truly significant, as the section president has said here: we have taken these decisions in anticipation of the fact that no municipal service system needs to be submerged, and that is why there are undoubtedly issues of targeting there. Now, of course, when we go to next year, next year, this EUR 1.6 billion, which I am sure will be specifically targeted through the STM regulation, will be much more targeted on these subsidies than this overall share of the state. On the other hand, the share of corporation tax has been the high proportion which, of course, has responded to the fact that more than the cost of the interest rate has become detrimental to municipalities and municipalities' economies because of reduced tax revenues. This change in the share of corporation tax, which will continue next year, has been able to respond to this aspect. Changes have been made to the municipal law so that the deficit coverage can be extended for two years if you feel you need it or if you need it, because this was one of the means that was one of the presentations that summer when we had a close discussion with the municipalities. Let's see how much it takes. And then to the future: we have started the future work of municipalities with strong involvement of municipalities, associations, the private side, the strong university side, together with whom we will then go to see what this challenging time, which is not just due to corona, but has already begun much earlier — the challenges of the local government economy — due to ageing, falling birth rates, urbanisation and others. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u18	Now we move to the debatable stage, and I would ask those Members who wish to speak in this debat to stand up and, with a response button, ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u19	Mr President! Thank you, indeed, to both sections and thank the Minister for his presentation. There's a municipality behind it, just like the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has said. It has been noted this year, and it will certainly be very visible next year. With interest, the pressure on the service structure has been felt by municipalities, both in education and care staff and in many others, and it is true that the state has also supported local government finances, as it should have been, and in that sense the outlook for local government finances is better now in this December situation than in the early part of the year. But the structural problems in the local government economy have not been eliminated, as the section president and the minister have also pointed out. I am thinking mainly of next year's incentives for both operational and structural service needs, not only for these VOSs and corporate tax revenues, but so,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u20	Mr President! This corona crisis has put municipalities, and in particular municipal staff, at the very heart of the challenge and, in this situation, many municipal workers have been forced to find their way to the limit this year. For this, I would like to thank the Minister for your hard work in supporting municipalities and our municipal workers throughout Finland to cope with this corona crisis. These state subsidies have played a very central role in this and, as you said, you have also had an active debate with the local authority. At the same time, we have also been talking about this ability of the staff, and I would like to ask: could it be possible to target these state aids towards the municipalities in this way?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u21	Madam President! Bureaucracy always protects itself, and this applies both to the municipalities and to the state administration. That is why it is very important that we here first ensure that there are no more tasks for the municipalities — now this extension of compulsory education is a bad decision, for it increases anxiety and spending in the municipalities. The second point is, of course, this self-criticism, which means that the leaders of the municipalities should now understand that decisions are being taken to really get rid of all inefficient and pointless activities. I believe that we could also show good examples here in the state administration and in this direction that we are going to go down the road ourselves and set priorities. Of course, a lot of good has been done under the pretext of interest, and it has had to be done and increased for certain things, but we have done a lot of unnecessary things. Great self-criticism and not being lulled into it in vain,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u22	Mr President! I would like to join the group of thanks: thank you to the government and Minister Paatero for supporting the municipal economy now that it is most needed. It is important that where the fight against the corona epidemic is really at the forefront and where it is being resolved, resources are now being provided. But it is true that we also have to look further, including over the interest rate. After all, the local government economy is facing challenges and has been facing challenges in the past, and I ask this in terms of seeking a balance between the tasks of local government finances and funding: is it possible to get more into regulation, as it were, at such a level of ambition and, at least in some places, to try to get away from very detailed regulation? And then there is the question of diversity, which has also become a reality: is it possible to tie up diversity, for example, in the development of the system of state subsidies?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u23	Mr President! Municipalities and local government finances have spoken for a reason this year. The interest-rate crisis hit the economy, but it also hit municipalities where they had to change services from physical to electronic in an instant, and at the same time there was already a difficult situation in local government finances. Various contributions were made during this year. First of all, there was a great demand for support for municipalities. Then, in the summer, the government took the decisions on this, then it was criticised for the opposition, and it was called monetary. Then, when we entered the budget debate and saw that next year was a difficult year, more money was demanded from the opposition, both from the assembly and from the Finns. The government made decisions, some of which are now coming this year, and that is why this is the rhythm for local government finances. In any case, these have been important and it is clear that they will certainly continue. And I do not believe that there is a municipality that, when it looks forward, does not have any challenging decisions there. This is where the government needs to be a friend. Mr President! I do think that we also need to focus on raising the cake.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u25	Mr President! Of course, the climate objectives and other sustainable development highlighted in this section will ensure that taxation is down. On that point, I agree with Mr Lindtman that even cake should be considered in a different way from taxation. Many municipalities have had to increase their property tax, which has further increased the cost of housing. Similarly, the development of debt sustainability is alarming. However, on the cuts, I would like to mention Mr Yrttiaho's EUR 9.4 billion cut. This must be the biggest cut in parliamentary history. Either the left has a great deal of willingness today to make drastic cuts to the welfare state, or the defence of the country will not be appreciated in the way that the Administrative and Security Section has advocated in this regard. However, the government's economic policy is rather difficult to monitor, as impact assessments are generally not carried out. For example, the budget has not assessed the impact on businesses, and the conditions and assumptions of decisions and other background information are too limited for the opposition. Here I hope for a little improvement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u26	Mr President! I would also like to thank the Minister for his determined efforts to support local government finances in this challenging situation. It is particularly important that municipalities are fully compensated for the costs of the interest rate and that efforts are now being made to improve its targeting. Similarly, it is important that, when new tasks are imposed on municipalities, the costs are also fully reimbursed, to which the government has committed itself. I think it is important that, now that new tasks are assigned to municipalities, such as this extension of compulsory education, because they are significant changes in the functioning and economy of municipalities, they are implemented carefully together with the municipalities. I also think it is important that the municipalities are now heavily harnessed for this green recovery, which is what we are facing, and that the financing of the EU recovery instrument should also be directed towards green investment in the municipalities. That is what I would have asked the Minister: how do you see the role of the municipalities in this revival?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u27	Irade the Talman! Representative Junnila there is a slight criticism of climate action in the municipalities. It is true that we should not close our eyes to inescapable measures, but we should be happy to face them in the front row, so that we do not subsequently become extremely difficult and, of course, expensive obligations on the municipalities. As chairman of the council of the small municipality of Uusimaa, Kirkkonummi, I have also, of course, noticed close proximity to how bad the economy looked in the municipalities until the beginning of the year, and there was a great deal of support that saved this year, but perhaps I am a little concerned that this does not just lead to such a sense of security as not to see that there are major adjustment needs in the municipality as well as in the municipality. Many municipalities have now had to make large investments in real estate and the amount of loans has been increased, and when a large part of the activities is transferred to welfare areas, a small area of activity will be run and then reduced tax revenue, which will then have to be used to finance these large loans.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u28	Mr President! I thank you for the rapid attention given to the condition of local government finances. Perhaps even a little surprise to the municipality was the agile response to this corona situation. In fact, I would have asked about this when the regional tax is now being considered and what kind of model it might be. However, it has emerged that perhaps the second option could be the development and reform of the system of central government transfers. However, with all the calculated systems already in place, would it not be more cost-effective to reform this system of central government participation than to create a new regional tax model that is extremely difficult and demanding and would add one level to these so-called difficult calculations in municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u29	Mr President! The concepts of ‘efficiency’ and ‘productivity’ are of particular importance. They are, in fact, a and o both in the development of service production and in public administration. Now that article 28.70.20 deals with productivity. EUR 37.7 million has been set aside and, when I go through it, it is largely linked to such IT projects, which are intended to increase productivity. However, in a broader sense, we would have to see productivity in such a way that it is actually the same as the unit price of the supply, i.e. how much service production we achieve at certain costs, or whether we can achieve the same total service production at lower costs. I would have asked the Minister: is productivity so widely understood — not just as certain IT projects — a principle that is going through this, because I believe that this should be the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u30	Mr President! Indeed, the conditions for growth must now be applied for in such a difficult economic situation, and one of the most interesting things that happens at EU level is the digital finance package. After all, the Ministry of Finance has become this new 56/2020 of virtual asset market places and related experiments, including these blockchain technologies and similar digital distributed technologies. Clearly, it has now become clear in the EU that if the EU does not go on doing these things, then China and the United States will probably pass through in these technologies. In the same way, Finland should also be awake to the fact that even if we have all our digital skills and know-how in the financial sector, for some reason we are lagging behind in this field, for example Estonia or Lithuania. Now I suggest and ask: when this regulatory development is made, you are supposed to take into account what this could mean for the public, for funding and also for business opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u31	Mr President! Serious concern lies with Finnish municipalities. The policy of the Marin government makes the silent funeral of the municipalities. Employment measures have been postponed, reforms are in themselves well-intentioned, reforms which will substantially increase the cost of municipalities, for which there will be insufficient money. And the last nail to the coffin is the social welfare reform, which takes away the vitality of cities and the ability of municipalities to invest and finance, for example, education services. Which means we have to change our course. It has been wise that debt has been taken up, that efforts have been made to carry out the local authorities, people and businesses beyond this corona epidemic, but, as in that report, the excellent report by the Section for Local Government and Health, thanks in particular to President Filatov, describes the situation, the aid has been unfairly targeted, the corona has particularly strangled Helsinki and the capital region and the Hospital District of Helsinki and Uusimaa. I ask now that the government has promised to reimburse all the costs of the interest rate: when it would be sensible to support and help the medical staff to cope,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u32	Mr President! Congressman Talvitie said well that there is a municipality behind it, and that is how it really is — the focus of every day and family. Representative Sarkomaa said that thanks to the government, silent municipal funerals are held. I couldn't agree more. I think it is a cheekless argument in relation to what the government has done for the municipalities, not only during this year but also in relation to its actions next year. But Mr Sarkomaa is right that municipalities are always given new tasks through compulsory education, early childhood education, the strengthening of student and student care and so on. The Government has consistently and resolutely announced that these new tasks will be fully compensated for by the municipalities. I would also like to ask the following questions in order to raise the Christmas spirit of the municipalities:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u33	Mr President! As stated in the meritable report by the Section for Local Government and Health, the situation in local government finances is serious. Employment measures have been postponed, and we know how serious the situation is, because although the interest rate has changed the world, it has not changed the fact that work and enterprise pay for the Finnish welfare society. Extension of compulsory education: even the report states that it is totally underbudgeted. The City of Helsinki, which has partly piloted this, notes that the cost is more than 40 per cent higher than what the state gives. At the same time, a reform will take away the vitality of municipalities and, in particular, of large cities. Where's the money coming from? This is a quiet municipal funeral if the political direction is not changed, and it is worth changing. [Johannes Koskinen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u34	Mr President! In this Chamber, there has been considerable criticism of the support of municipalities in this pandemic situation and, at the same time, significant and effective employment measures have been called for. This budget supports municipalities because the pandemic has significantly reduced municipal tax and other payment revenues, while spending pressures have increased in many ways. Local government finances have deteriorated in recent years due to population ageing, tax reductions and central government participation cuts. The aim of this budget is to safeguard work on the municipal side also for carers. It means opportunities for action in our early childhood education, schools, health care, institutional care and also on the technical side. I wonder which one of these is in vain, as was evident from the speech of the Finns of Peru. [Lulu Ranne requests reply]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u36	My esteemed Speaker! Indeed, Mr Lindtman just said that the cake should be grown. It is true that cake needs to be grown, but we Finns in Peru would rather grow it with work and other things than tax, because otherwise it is tax cake. Indeed, there have been challenges in the municipal economy and it has been extremely important that the municipalities have received support. But I must share Mr Adlercreutz's concern about the way in which these municipalities actually make those decisions. At Kouvola, it was immediately apparent that phlegmatism came to the decision of the municipality in a demo-led city, so that it was no longer willing to make those decisions when money was received from the state. It goes without saying that we cannot keep going on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Otherwise, there'll be nothing in the long run. All we have is that tax cake, and only then do we have it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u37	Mr President! The representative, Mr Junnila, raised here the very heavy future expenditure of the state, i.e. the acquisition of multi-functional fighters. We are talking about 10 billion in the procurement phase, perhaps 20-30 billion in the life cycle. It is clear that this largest arms acquisition in history also has a detrimental effect on the local government economy. During the procurement period alone, ten years each year, one billion out of welfare, education, infrastructure, or much of the services that municipalities pay. In that sense, it was all right that you raised this issue here. I pretended to postpone the purchase. That would be very sensible in this economic situation, and it would also be worth critically reassessing so that we could manage our defences a little more cheaply but more efficiently.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u38	Mr President! I do not think there is any desire to go further in this regard, but once the Finns of Peru have previously been regarded as populist, I do find this money to be rather populist by Mrs Yrttiaho, i.e. to tell you what good things are, as if this national defence were somehow an alternative at all. When the minister is here, I would like to ask about the demographic and economic dependency ratio. This problem has mainly been addressed from the social and health point of view, but regional disparities are enormous. In some municipalities, the number of employed persons is as high as outside the labour force, and in others the ratio is, for example, 3:1. The situation is very bad especially in northern Finland, but throughout Finland, the population is ageing, and then there are more and more people outside the labour force. How do you intend to resolve this precisely from the point of view of employment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u39	Mr President! I'm sure we won't go into the defense debate, but there are alternatives, they just haven't been clarified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u41	Mr President! This protest against both Finns and the National Coalition Party criticises the increase in municipal tasks. There is some sort of vision, while at the same time there is a huge transfer of municipal tasks to another level of self-government in regions or welfare areas. In other words, in reality, the tasks of the municipalities are being drastically reduced, and it is urgent to allocate resources and practices over the course of the two years so that these remaining tasks are managed as well as possible. Here, for example, in the protest of the Finns of Peru, one statement states that Parliament requires that the government strengthen regional, structural and employment policies in order to strengthen the income base of the municipal economy. It is precisely the municipalities that are the poor work in practice that are doing this to strengthen employment and regionally increase activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u42	Honorable Speaker! Yes, it is good that the truth is finally revealed. Although the SDP here talks about how cake is grown, fortunately the Left Alliance reveals that it is a debt cake. When they were always talking in a sandbox when they made sand cakes, that come, come a good cake, don't become a bad cake, so here's a bad debt cake now, and then it's paid out a long way forward. Well, now that we have just heard about this administrative burden on the municipalities, it is true that if we have weak municipalities, the administrative burden will increase by municipalities having to go into complex administrative alliances with other weak municipalities, for example, to make joint committees. This was stated in this VM study early in the year when the municipalities came at a turning point? -Acquittal. [Johannes Koskinen’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u43	Mr President! Of course, it is very important for the municipalities to have the vitality and jobs, and for the local government to have the employment measures to which expectations have been reversed since the beginning of the year and a year and a half has now only been in its state of expectation. Here, too, it is essential for next year, and especially after next year, that these support measures should be able to correct the mismatch between income and expenditure, which has plagued the local government economy for a long time. The local government finances programme for next year states that the state of the local government finances will indeed be strengthened by government support measures in 2021, but this gap will not be corrected. It is a bit more difficult to say that, unfortunately, small municipalities have been overcompensated and large cities have been undercompensated for this corona. As I asked in the first speech, I would ask: what incentives could we consider for these structural reforms and also for the reform of the service structure?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u44	Mr President! I would like to say to Mrs Vähämäki that debt has actually been taken and that the Finns of Finland have also presented the same debt in their own alternative budget. It is now necessary. If memory goes back an hour or so, then a large bunch of additional budget proposals, good projects, were just voted on, but the economy must also be managed responsibly. Mr President! This government is a reforming government, a restructuring government. Social reform, extension of compulsory education and employment measures have already been mentioned in the debate. All of these are done by the government, and I would like us to be able to develop all of these together in the future. As regards employment measures, for example, we must, of course, continue along the same path that has now been set in motion. I would also like to thank the Minister for the fact that one reform, i.e. this: The defense properties are now on their feet, and it is important that when the journey takes off,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u45	Mr President! It has been a very exceptional year and has called for very specific measures from both the government, the parliament and the municipalities and health care districts. In this connection, I would like to thank Mr Paatero and the government for that, because we would not have done so well without the very strong and planned and exciting work of the government that you have done. Now the future is driven very far by various structural reforms, such as compulsory education and future social reform, and the municipalities are now preparing very strongly for the post-social reform period. In this context, municipalities are expected and required to balance the economy and increase their vitality and other tasks in order to enable municipalities to cope as well as possible with the post-war period. I would like to ask the Minister whether the government will bring any new measures to ensure that the municipalities will be able to cope with all the challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u46	Mr President! First of all, the basic Finns would have used this debt money differently. We would have reduced taxation and increased competitiveness and purchasing power, unlike a government which is constantly expanding the public sector. [Aki Lindén’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u47	Mr President! It is the responsibility of the welfare state to safeguard the basic services of its inhabitants and thus also in the midst of the crisis, and the welfare state is the same as the municipalities. Thank you, of course, on this point too, for the many measures that have now been taken to facilitate municipalities in the midst of this corona crisis. But, as has been well highlighted in this Chamber by every party, the structural problems in municipal finances are well known to us all and the sustainability of the municipal sector is a real challenge. The 2020 and 2021 budgets are, of course, exceptional during this period and will not solve this permanent challenge. But as Mr Kalli said, we have to look to the future and the post-column period, and the future work of the municipalities has been started at the Ministry of Finance — a challenging job ahead. There was also talk of efficiency and how to improve the services of municipalities, and I would like to ask the Minister: do you see that we have tasks in the municipalities that could be carried out on larger shoulders in cooperation with several municipalities?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u48	Mr Turtiainen and then Minister Paatero will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u49	Mr President! The Government intends to increase the VAT threshold to EUR 15000. It's the right direction. But that is not enough. [Left: Nothing is enough for you!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u50	Minister Paatero, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u51	Mr President! If you look at this funding first of all, how this year and next year there will be additional funding, then first you have to say that it really is a very significant sum in its entirety, but then some of it is direct grants and some of it is state subsidies, and then there is the division of corporation tax. The majority of these state grants have gone not as well as normal state grants, but have been concentrated on the ratio of municipal tax and, for a smaller part, on a per capita basis. In other words, the municipalities in which tax revenues have decreased have just been answered. For this reason, when you look at the table that has probably been used by the Committee on Finance, this figure is the highest in large municipalities per capita. In other words, we have supported large municipalities in particular, where there is no doubt that tax revenue reductions are greater. This has been quite justified. In this context, Mr Sarkomaa also has the question of how this additional funding for carers or those who worked during the interest rate: Yes, there have been local agreements in many medical districts, in several municipalities. It has been raised, agreed locally, to which professional groups, the means by which these subsidies have been granted. Unfortunately, this does not happen in everyone, but I believe that there is a will and that, when negotiations are carried forward together, we will have access to all medical districts. Then on these issues of well-being at work, which is largely related to this issue — it has been raised both on the part of the social partners and also on the Keva side: We are thinking about a joint project or a project of this kind, for which then the whole of our municipal field could somehow be connected to this kind of well-being at work. I do not know what means are being used yet, but this has been on the table all autumn, and we will probably see it from the beginning of the year. It may also be possible to add it to the sustainable growth programme. The increase in the need for services has, of course, been quite remarkable in this time of the corona, because we all read and see in the media how people's loneliness, the need for people's services in relation to domestic violence, substance abuse problems, mental health problems are growing. In other words, the pressure on municipalities to provide additional services has come rather than could have been reduced. Then this discussion that the municipalities have some additional services or activities that are not needed: For ten years we have been in this Chamber holding this same debate. There have been goals for all our governments, regardless of colour, to save one billion from the additional services of our municipalities. They haven't been found. 300 million has been calculated at calculated cost. But when the legislative power of this Parliament is that we want to improve and provide people with services in order to maintain people's well-being, so that we start cutting it off, there has just been no sensible, realistic way of saying that what would then be the services, as the representatives here already asked what should not be done. The question here, how they could be produced more effectively, is relevant, how they could be produced together, is acute. These productivity gains have been recorded there, in addition to this digitality — which must also be made much stronger for the local authorities in terms of service production and the organisation of services — also in terms of procurement, where we talk about public procurement, EUR 35 billion. It is possible to get there now that we have been able to draw up a common procurement strategy and strengthen this whole unity of public procurement as responsible procurement. Joint management — we have started the training and project of the management of the entire public administration — by means of common operating methods and joint premises, we also have the possibility of improving efficiency so that we can, as an example, organise these joint service points in different parts of Finland, where the functions of the state and municipalities are in the same premises. In this way, there may also be support for the use of digital services and so on. All these measures can generate this productivity. Then the question of this green shift: the shift from oil heating to other forms of energy has become a separate support to municipalities, public transport has been supported, the increase in light transport has been supported, there is separate support for changing the energy solution,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u52	Let's just go back to the debatt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u54	Mr President! Minister! Now the biggest administrative reform in all of Finland's history, a very big upheaval, is planned, and it will then select delegates and trustees — they will not appear to be coming under the name of the province, but under another name, however, the delegates — to this task as well. However, it seems that bureaucracy is growing, and when more administrative positions, more positions of trust, has it been calculated, what more costs will there be now when new representatives are elected? This is the case, after all, that the council seats in the council will remain unchanged, that they will not be reduced, that they will be statutory, and that the health committees in the municipalities will generally remain, because there will also be a need for them, and many others, the limited liability companies and so on, will be in the background. Have the costs been mirrored, how much more will it be when these new people are selected? Of course, many people will think that there are nice places of trust coming from there, but what are the real costs? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u55	Mr President! The representative of the park raised an important issue here, how we make use of this technology and ict know-how. During the last term, the Minister was on the Administrative Committee, where we talked a lot about these issues. Indeed, it is not enough for us to buy something and lower productivity, but what is essential is how we can order and, together with the users, take this matter forward. At the moment, the municipalities are also very much employed by this corona trace, and unfortunately even school nurses, deacons and so on have been transferred to tracing work. I asked Minister Kiuru last month in a written question whether we could take advantage of this Finnish technology expertise. Several entrepreneurs and companies have contacted me that there are different technology skills related to tracking work if only now, with the support of VM, STM and TEM, the municipalities have the opportunity to gain access to this issue in a pilot culture and in fast procurement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u56	Mr President! Now that Finland is in debt at a rapid pace, and I think there has been a very clear reason for this debt, and of course everyone is wondering what Finland's debt recovery capacity is, I would have asked about Finland's wealth: does the Minister have an idea of what level of debt we owe in relation to our nation's wealth, and what is our real debt recovery capacity in the future? When Mr Yrttiaho described here that 30 billion more debts will be taken over in the coming years,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u58	Mr President! In this situation, in the midst of the crisis, the government has wanted to create a bridge over the crisis, and it also involves these key actions to support municipalities. It is quite true that, in this situation, the government has also decided to make a significant increase in debt in order, for example, to support municipalities through these billion-dollar packages. I would say that, in fact, in the big picture, the opposition has also signed this government decision and the decision to accept an additional debt, because you also proposed almost the same amount of additional debt in your own options. In this situation, it would also be quite irresponsible to go out and cut or significantly lay off municipal workers, when we all know here that our municipalities are responsible for these essential tasks of health care, education, early childhood education,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u59	Mr President! Yes, the assembly would take less debt, be less badly indebted to the children than the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u60	Once again, representatives Elo, Kalle, Lindén and Junnila, and then the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u61	Mr President! It is important that work has been started on the future of municipalities. Its work will hopefully lead to the solutions to these problems, which has been discussed a great deal in this Chamber today, and it was good to hear that this work is being done on a broad basis. With public administration alone, we do not solve these problems; we need the private sector and the third sector to be involved in creating the work and vitality in which municipal services are then financed. There is already a lot of this partnership work in the municipalities and it is good to strengthen it. Here I would like to highlight urban policy and I hope that it will be strongly involved in this future work of the municipalities, when the success of our cities is in the interests of Finland as a whole. With the reform of social services, the role and funding of municipalities will radically change, and in this context it is important to safeguard the ability of growth cities and regions to invest sustainably and to ensure the well-being of their inhabitants in the future. I think it is important that this reform work also explores the possibility of separation of tasks between municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u62	Mr President! I believe that all of us share the view that resources are limited, and since we think so, it is clear that resources must be used intelligently and rationally, and that really requires them to be reformed. In addition, measures are needed which actually increase cake, as has already been said here, and these reforms are linked to it, because the alternative is either very drastic cuts or tax increases, and that is something we do not want to go into. There is, as it were, agreement on these reforms and the need for them, but then the practice may no longer be met. It would be important now that, once again, the government has presented structural reforms, last night in relation to the development of working life, in relation to the reform of working life, we take them forward together. It would be very valuable that the opposition should also support these, as well as, for example, with regard to the reform of social security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u64	Mr President! I am usually happy to justify some good projects here, but now I am going to devote this whole minute to wondering what the opposition has proposed here — it is such an interesting thought. If the government did not strongly support the municipalities now, we would be criticized for it. Well, now that the municipalities are supported, it is criticized that there is some kind of support, as in the case of buckets, and not effectively enough.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u70	Mr Junnila and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u71	Mr President! In responsible economics and investments, Mr Yrttiaho’s ‘continuance’ does not give rise to a problem. This is also the case with the Left Alliance, which, according to press reports, has just given you discipline. On the other hand, Mr Kalli and Mr Lindén spoke here about the debt ratio, although they are well aware that the shadow budget is in line with its name, i.e. it is always aligned with the same framework — that is where the name comes from. The only exception was in the period 2011-2015, when the city centre shadow budget for at least one year, whether it was 2011 or 2012, there were two pages, one of which was the cover. However, it led to Sipilä's government, which means this is your line that you did not tell the voters what you were actually driving. That is why we have so many budget proposals and proposals for statements that we have a coherent picture of our policy, unlike the advertising slogans of communications agencies. I would therefore urge you to use energy to make impact assessments. Why does the budget still not take account of the impact on businesses?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u72	Now, Minister Paatero, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u73	President! This question was asked in connection with this future work. I hope that this will be the subject of a wider debate. This work will be running out by the end of next year, and I hope that the interest rate will make it easier for us to get around the regions as well. If not, then we do it virtually. In other words, in addition to these two sections and this working group, there is also the idea of travelling around the regions and hearing these different sizes and types of municipalities. During this government, it has been strongly taken into account that we have our own programmes with sparsely populated municipalities, that we have our own programmes with regional cities, that we have our own programmes with larger municipalities, and that is to say, we have started working in the metropolis again, so that we try to channel them into different types and sizes of municipalities in different ways. In this extensive future work, we also have these aspects to consider, and this involves cooperation between municipalities, but also reflection on the possible separation of tasks. The central government system is a big change on the local government side and then on the welfare side, but it is not enough. At the same time, we also have to look at the tax base of municipalities. A recent reference was made to increases in property taxes and, on the other hand, their relative position at the point of welfare reform, but why could capital taxation not also become a part of municipalities? Many other such issues are being considered in this work for the future, not just the state. To these questions, does the administration pay too much for welfare areas: I think there is always a price for democracy, and the mere fact that we have these committees and councils will hardly swing the construction of these welfare areas for us if and when we are able to improve the service chain there and integrate these services more effectively in the future. It is a good thing that we get the decision-makers directly elected and not, as is currently the case in joint municipal boards, that they are on the side of the second level of decision-making. Then to this municipal structure: I think that in the speech of the section president you have already decided — and we have suggested — that support for voluntary mergers is possible, and that if there are two different municipalities or more, then the state shares will not drop immediately, even if this merger takes place. I would like us to have municipalities willing to make these mergers, but at the same time, of course, we are also thinking about these joint functions, how these services can be organised, because they are often companies at the moment. Thank you very much for the debate. The municipalities are the foundation of our service network.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u74	Thank you, Minister. — Now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u75	Mr President! There has been a mandatory fight against Korona as the billions rush. On the other hand, public finances have also been expanded unnecessarily. Finland prepares for the upcoming Biggest Dropper program by gaining weight in the warehouse. The Bank of Finland estimated on Tuesday that the sustainability gap in public finances has increased to 5.5% of GDP. The Bank's medicines are familiar: economic growth should be boosted, which would require an increase in employment, which would require structural solutions. It will be a big surprise when the removal of the pension line does not change the big picture. Politics is stuck in a career where the supply is increased into debt by imagining that the demand will eventually come from there. It will not, because consumers have been taxed into the pin and more and more consumers will spend the rest of their lives paying debts and interest. Expansive public finances are increasing the tax wedge, preventing the private economy from recovering and creating jobs. It is time to move on from supply to healthy demand. The state and municipalities balance welfare differences by taxation, income transfers and services. Payers have a legitimate expectation that the targets are correct and the costs of red tape are as small as possible. But bureaucracy always protects itself. It never proposes its own radical intensification to the decision-makers, but requires politicians to generate more income for their maintenance and growth under the guise of good intentions. Approximately 29 per cent of central government spending limits are spent on spending expenditure on bureaucracy, such as wages, purchases, premises and ict expenditure. In addition, we support part of the European Commission's giant bureaucracy of some 32,000 officials. The remaining 71% of spending limits expenditure are so-called transfer expenses, i.e. various transfers of income, such as Kela expenditure and central government transfers of municipalities. Consumption expenditure has a significant potential to cover the sustainability gap. Mr President! When we pretend to clean up public finances, there is always an intellectually dishonest spring from the green left that the right wants to cut off children, the elderly, the unemployed, the sick and the carers and so on. The future financing of the welfare state can no longer be built on debt money and imagined growth. True Finns do not cut from the weakest, on the contrary. The only way to ensure the weakest welfare services is to stop doing things that are useless and of little value inefficiently. Even doing good things can always be made more effective. There are islands in public administration where the efficiency of single classes has been achieved through continuous agile development, genuine digitalisation and automatic decision-making. For example, the duration of business start-ups has improved from months to even hours. With these exceptions, the contribution of public administration development and digitalisation—output ratios are terrible. The budgetary process needs to be developed in order to prioritise transfer expenditure. Every year, we have to give up the waste and the waste. The abolition of unnecessary transfer costs will also reduce consumption expenditure. Similarly, greater efficiency, such as radical reduction of processing times, will make society as a whole more efficient and reduce both consumption and transfer costs. The sustainability gap is not covered by moving money from one item to another while waiting for growth or by throwing money into vain and inefficient activities. We politicians have three tasks here: the first is to prioritise expenditure and eliminate it. The second is to impose bureaucracy on the productivity leap that is made possible by genuine digitalisation, automatic decision-making and continuous agile development. And our third task is to regulate the laws and regulations required by the bureaucratic leap in productivity. The Ministry of Finance has a key role to play in bringing this work through.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u76	Mr President! The impact of the interest-rate crisis on individual municipalities is very different due, among other things, to the structure of the economy, geography and the number of interest-rate cases. In the short term, the impact has been particularly heavy in large cities and smaller municipalities dependent on tourism, such as Lapland and Åland. It is important that the government has now taken the attack and supported the municipalities in this difficult situation. A very important policy is that the central government fully reimburses municipalities for the immediate costs associated with the coronavirus for as long as the disease situation so requires. It has already been said here that the aid granted through state subsidies is imputable and does not correspond very well to the actual interest rate costs of municipalities. This has been well identified, but, in this situation, it has been considered more important to demonstrate rapid aid than this allocation, but it was good to hear that it will now be addressed in such a way that it actually targets where the actual costs have been incurred. Mr President! The economic situation of municipalities has been challenging for years before the corona, it has also become very clear here during this debate, and it is therefore very important that this work on the future of municipalities has been launched, as the Minister has just described. The work does indeed seek solutions to balance the financial base and tasks of municipalities and consider ways of developing the role of municipalities and self-government — all of the really essential questions to safeguard our welfare state. This work is due to be completed by the end of 21 C.E., which is more than a year away, and at least I personally expect much of this work. I think it is important that this work also examines the possibility of the separation of tasks between municipalities. However, it is quite different to provide services in a town of a few hundred thousand inhabitants than in a small municipality of a few thousand inhabitants. In particular, I hope that urban policy will be strongly involved in this work. The Sote reform will radically change the functions and activity of municipalities. At the same time, it is important to recognise that large cities in particular play an important role in tackling the major challenges of the future: climate change, over-consumption of natural resources, sustainable growth of vitality and the fight against inequality. It is worth bringing cities into this work. I would therefore like to thank the Minister, who is now no longer here, for the preparation of a national urban strategy under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance, involving 36 cities and eight different ministries. We need more cooperation than confrontation, it is precisely this type of intersectoral cooperation and also involving the entire public administration and then the private sector and the third sector in solving these common challenges. It is very important that cooperation and partnership between cities and countries continue to be strengthened in the preparation and implementation of major municipal reforms. The partnership must be accompanied by strengthening the institutional role of cities as key actors in society. We see in the world that the role of large cities and the role of urban areas is growing in solving these wretched global problems. Mr President! The resolution of the specific challenges facing cities and the use of pioneering are indeed important questions for the future of Finland as a whole. In addition to urban policy, there is also a need for a strong metropolis policy, which will then be used to address specific issues related to the Helsinki region in particular, and at the same time will strengthen the competitiveness of Finland as a whole. It is therefore important that in November the Government has now set up a cooperation group on metropolitan policy aimed at intensifying cooperation and policy coordination between the state and the metropolitan area on issues that support the growth, employment, sustainable development, global competitiveness and the resolution of the specific challenges facing the metropolitan area. The welfare of the whole country depends much on how our cities prosper and how well people are doing in them. Therefore, urban policy should be taken forward as part of this reform work on the future of municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u77	Mr President! The state has taken on a lot of debt and, as this debate has shown, it is indeed important to look for ways to create new growth, and when you think about where growth could come from, I cannot see that, for example, there is going to be something terrible going on with employment policy. I do not believe in these EU recovery funds either — they are at least harmful to Finland. But in the field of new technology, a lot is happening and happening around the world. There are various breakthrough technologies under development, and if some are mentioned now, for example in the medical field, various tailored medical applications: gene scissors, RNA technology. Since this week, these quantum computers have also emerged in the debate, which are able to achieve different computing efficiency on a totally different scale than before, and there is also a great deal going on in the field of financial digitalisation. One interesting issue that is now pending is the Commission's proposal for a market for virtual assets and a pilot on market infrastructures based on decentralised accounts, which falls under the remit of the Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance has issued a letter U 56/2020 on it. Indeed, these digital technologies based on decentralised accounting are network systems that can operate without a centralised clearing mechanism on-line in a decentralised manner so that all users have the same picture of the situation on the network. At least at best, these technologies can be de facto decentralised, fast and also efficient. This is a relatively young sector. What uses are to be established is not yet quite clear, but in terms of funding, this seems to be clearly happening and possibly in such different peer schemes, even though in energy systems where different users, for example, interact with different energy units between energy production and transmission. Well, then there have also been various mild phenomena, money laundering and the like. These should be taken seriously, and this work will continue in this Commission proposal as well. [on intermission ] In other words, at least I myself interpret this situation in such a way that the EU has been awakened to the fact that if the EU itself does not act quickly enough, then the United States, and in particular the United States, will: China is taking advantage, as it seems to have already happened. This field has involved many large players, traditional banks, including large institutional investors and as one of the interesting players, central banks in their own way — talk about such digital central bank funds. Looks like this technology business has come to stay. It is now important to note that this field of activity has been quite regulated in Finland, and so far this regulation does not focus much on these business opportunities, even though it is thought that Finland should have a lot of financial expertise, digital competence and this history. If you compare with our neighbouring countries, for example Estonia has more than 1500 active licences, Even on a global scale, Lithuania is one big concentration of companies in the sector, and the business environment, including the administration, there is a very keen interest in this sector, and that is why I strongly believe that Finland should do much more to promote block chain technologies and these decentralised accounting technologies. Many of these actors are very small startups, which move very fast and whose funding moves very fast, and that is why we need a coherent strategy for Finland and also an action plan to increase the business in this sector. We must also ensure that there are at least no unnecessary artificial barriers to the sector, and in so doing I propose that the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, should also draw up a concrete strategy and action plan to develop this sector from the point of view of funding and also of this public opinion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u78	The debate and the debate will be suspended and resumed later in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u79	The general debate on Section 28, which was suspended earlier in this plenary session, will now continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u80	Mr President! Korona has made the world a mess. Cheaters use corona in a harsh way, hiding in its shadow all kinds of wuttering and irresponsibility and even years of living in debt. The consequences of irresponsible waste, combined with the consequences of exceptional measures, are fatal for small and medium-sized enterprises. There's a wave of bankruptcy on the line. The chain reaction of economic destruction will be visible everywhere. The Socialist Government has used the pandemic to the detriment of its own ideology and political ambitions. Our country is threatening to become a state of the European Debt Union. The planned recovery fund would be a terrible step towards a federal state. Even climate cheating has been called resuscitation. I have heard such crazy speeches in this Chamber this week that we are supposed to be able to stop climate change. I have to ask, what's the magic trick, what's the magic trick? Mr President! What happens when small businesses die? This means that supranational giants are gaining more control of the market. So the rich get rich, the great get bigger, and the little ones disappear, and the poor get poorer. The income gap will increase dramatically, and the most destructive redistribution of assets will take place in history. At some point, the housing market will also be horrendous. Finnish residents have about 100 billion housing debts, and that's where the corporate debt comes in. When people run out of business, what do they then use to shorten their debts? Based on recent news, the pandemic is expected to continue for years to come. Do you think it's meant to bring an end to the private sector? In this Chamber, we should all be genuinely concerned about Finnish companies. In Finland, exports have fallen, tourism has frozen, unemployment has increased and debt has been taken over by more billions and billions. All of this has been done under the cover of a pandemic. Mr President! The preparedness law is now being prepared because a few ten people are in intensive care in Finland. Last year 54,000 people died in our country when there was no information about the corona. There's no sense in this. I propose the following measures: to protect the elderly and risk groups very effectively, but let the rest of society continue to live and work. Think about it, ladies and gentlemen: in the spring, STM, doctors and scientists shouted about the uselessness of masks, and now it is quite the opposite. The disease originated in China, and even here in Parliament almost everyone is posing with a Chinese mask on their faces to stir up hysteria. The daft ones have even put on a mask, even though health records relating to the use of masks and their manufacturing materials have not even been carried out properly. Corona mortality is very low and only affects people who had previously died of pneumonia or influenza. Everyone with a full head realizes that now is one of the world's biggest blasts going on. Mr President! Even though we are facing tough times, we still have to believe in the future and start preparing for a new rise. Everything must be built with self-sufficiency. Entrepreneurship and Finnish work are key words. In order to support small entrepreneurs, a substantial increase in the VAT threshold should be made immediately. The threshold should be increased to EUR 60000, as is the case in 13 countries in the EU economic area, when country-specific purchasing power is taken into account. Moreover, in order to strengthen purchasing power and boost the economic cycle, taxes should be given the courage to reduce significantly. Thank you, and Merry Christmas, everyone!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u81	Madam President! At first I thought that Mr Turtiainen did not come up with a good word from there. It was like a doomsday publisher: there was no spark of hope or solutions. But on the contrary, I think that at the end there were good things about just trying and working in Finland. I would also add Finnish ownership. When we work for Finnish work and entrepreneurship, the fact that capital and ownership also remain in our own hands. I believe that Turtiainen and I have a different view of how to do it. Whether it is built by international cooperation or by EU policy, but yet we share a common objective, the means may vary. I would just like to thank Mr Turtiai for the spark of hope that came there, and I also wish him a merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u82	Mr President! At first, I too thought that Mrs Turtiainen had no audience in this Chamber when she went to speak. I myself had been left here half by accident to look at my papers, but Mr Ovaska saved the situation and helped me to listen to Mr Turtiainen's speech, with at least one point on which I would react a little. He seriously questioned these climate change-related activities that we are doing, and he said that this is a process he hoped that one of us would now tell us what can genuinely help to combat this climate change. I would like to ask Mr Turtiainen: what are the ways if we do not succeed in combating climate change? That would have to be looked at in this direction as to what this climate change is all about. At the beginning of Christmas, I will give one series of chapters to us just to think about, and it has to do with the magnitude of the change we are currently experiencing in the global system in terms of global warming. The end of the Ice Age 10,000 years ago melted the ice from this northern hemisphere — the 100,000 - year ice age — and at that point the melting process took 5,000 years, and during that 5,000 - year period the earth’s average temperature rose by 5 degrees Fahrenheit [5 ° C] in the millennium. Now, because of people's own actions, we have warmed up the climate in just over a hundred years, that is, in the late 19th century to this day, by the same level as 1°, which melted these ices and removed the ice age from the earth. What took a thousand years has now taken place in 100 years, and in Finland the average temperature has risen by 2 degrees in 100 years, after World War II by 1 degree. We have an average temperature rising about one degree higher than the average global temperature. Now we are talking about an increase of 1.5 degrees to the end of the first century of the 21st century. Mr President! We are in a situation where similar global warming, which melted the continental ice, takes place on a ten-time closer schedule now, and this is so important, Mr Turtiainen — who may have left the Chamber — that we must force ourselves to find the ways in which this issue is being helped. — Thank you and Merry Christmas!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u83	Mr President! The main priority of this government is the fight against climate change at the expense of small Finnish industries, and this government has admitted that it will act in a way that will result in Finland being carbon neutral in 2035 and carbon-negative quickly thereafter. The Government's objective is to increase the taxation of energy to the level that, for example, the energy combustion of peat becomes unprofitable in Finland. However, the government forgets that, as a result of the dismantling of peat production, the production of vital growth and dry peat used in agriculture and greenhouses will also be driven down, not to mention our own energy security or the production of activated coal that is good for export. It seems that the current government's view of security of supply is that, in the event of a possible crisis, each one of us should be left on his own. Well, the Greens, the Democrats, the RKP, the Left and the Centre are patting their hands to their own victory, but to national defeat, because the government's goal of halving the energy use of peat by 2030 has already been achieved so well that, according to the latest estimates, its use will fall by as much as 75% by 25, and this is all due to the price of emission allowances and the final increase in the tax on energy peat. It does not matter to the government parties that the final bill will be paid by the consumer. The Green Left Socialist Central Government also applauds the victory and national defeat that the tax increase in energy peat will result in 3500 more unemployed people filling an increasingly deteriorating dependency ratio. The Government's climate tax policy will leave behind the wave of bankruptcy and the growing army of the unemployed and, at the same time, will donate our export industries to China and similar superpolluter countries. This is how the world will be saved. In my opinion, it is an outrageous and completely irresponsible policy. Mr President! Minister of Finance Matti Vanhanen told me 4.9. In Yle's interview, the taxation of peat will increase in the same proportion as that of other heating fuels. The Minister said that the tax increase should not be so large as to lead to the burning of wood or coal in boilers instead of peat. However, despite the Minister’s dream, this has now happened and foreign chips are transported by ships and trucks to Finland day and night to replace peat. And this comes as a total surprise to the central ministerial team. Yes, you have to pick up your corners when you look at the former rural party wallowing on the leash of the Greens. Minister Vanhanen answered my question about peat taxation recently in this Chamber that peat taxation will return to 2013 levels, but cleverly forgot to tell you the essential point that emissions compensation has risen from that EUR 5 in 2013 to EUR 30, i.e. five times. Things look exactly like they want to look like if you leave out very important things. In my opinion, this kind of misbehavior of the people is a very outrageous activity from the Minister, but this seems to be almost a practice in this house today. Mr President! I also want to ask myself out loud how it can be that Greece, whose economy was 1.5 per cent in 2019, received 23.4 million investment returns from the Bank of Finland. Next year, the government will be donating 10.45 million to the Greek State. Well, in this support for Greece all the euro area Member States are involved, so I am not surprised that Greece's economy is booming, unlike Finland. The question arises as to when this support for wasteland in Finland will end. Would it be time to leave the rest of the world for a while and focus on Finnish well-being? The Finnish citizen does not welcome the fact that the state resources torn from the backs of the people are being sent to the savannah in a bow tie package and to improve the competitiveness of the South European countries' industries. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u84	On this point, I would point out that Mr Paatero, Minister for Local Government Affairs and Government Affairs have been the rapporteur in this section. But admittedly the previous speech also dealt with Minister Vanhanen's tax issue. — I now give the floor to Mr Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u85	Madam President! I just want to say to Mr Peltokanka that, fortunately, yesterday the government has also made good decisions, and I believe that it is also listed in the opposition. That is, above all, the inclusion of the peat sector in this interest rate subsidy, which is cost support, we are now able to tackle this acute emergency, at least quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u87	Section 24 on the administrative branch of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now presented. In this context, two hours will be reserved for the general discussion in the section. — The debate is opened by Mr Vähämäki, President of the Section for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u88	Honorable Speaker! So, as chairman of the administrative section, I would like to present the section's contribution to the budget report. There are two main elements in Section 24: the Foreign Affairs Administration and its operating expenditure, including real estate expenditure, and international development cooperation, which includes development cooperation itself in its various forms, financial investments in development cooperation; The capitalisation of Finnfund and the rule of law article. Let me go over these briefly with a few comments. [KimmoKiljusenphone] The operating expenditure of the Foreign Affairs Administration will be EUR 251 million next year, with an increase of less than 14 million in relation to the current year. It is based on a strong delegation and the intention is to open four new delegations during the parliamentary term, from which the Manila Delegation was opened this year, and the budget will enable the opening of three new delegations, the location of which will be decided later. The committee welcomes the emphasis placed on the commercial benefits to be sought for Finland in the selection of the location. The committee raises the issue of the resilience of delegation staff in the midst of an epidemic, and support measures should be targeted at this. Promotion of exports: The proposal supports the work carried out through the delegations to promote Finland's exports and business opportunities abroad and thus boosts economic growth and employment in Finland. The Committee welcomes these measures, which will bring together larger export packages, which will then be able to respond to large-scale projects. As regards development cooperation: Finland’s total public development cooperation is 1245 million, which is 215 million more than in the current year. This sum is made up of the articles of Sections UM, TEM, SM and VM. For this section, EUR 760 million is proposed for development cooperation, which is 68 million more than in the current year. The Committee considers the priorities chosen to be good and highlights, in particular, the strengthening of the role of women and girls, support for the economy and the creation of new jobs in developing countries, education and training, and support for a generally functioning society and governance. The Committee welcomes the fact that development cooperation is also a means of preparing for the post-emergency treatment of the epidemic. Finland's development cooperation should help the most vulnerable people, and it is essential to increase the support of LDC states in line with the stated objective. The committee notes that the item under discussion is extensive and considers it necessary that the information provided to Parliament as a basis for decision-making be sufficiently detailed. The committee therefore wants to see a consensus between the articles and does not consider it a good development that the budget has reduced the content of several articles in recent years. In the future, development cooperation should be opened more precisely and the allocation of thematic priorities should be developed as far as possible. In addition, the objectives need to be clarified in order to make quality and effectiveness possible more transparent. The committee makes an addition, 200,000. It is aimed at promoting global education. Finnfund's budget proposes an increase of 10 million. In the current year, 60 million were allocated to capitalisation and 237 million were invested in Finnfund. The starting point for the operations is that the returnable capital will continue to be invested in new development targets and Finnfund’s balance sheet will increase in the future. The committee draws attention to the fact that development policy objectives must guide all Finnfund's activities. The committee notes that, in line with the principles of corporate governance, opportunities for Finnish operators will also be opened in addition to achieving development impacts. With regard to financial investments in development cooperation, a little more: There's gonna be less than 130 million people there. This is used for responsible and effective targets that in national accounts do not increase the central government deficit and have a return expectation. The article is therefore outside the spending limits, as is the previous Finnfund article. Finally, with regard to the rule of law, 3 million will be allocated to it, which will contribute to social stability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u89	It has been customary, ladies and gentlemen, that if the telephone is ringing in the sitting, coffee will slip into the cups — that is, Mr Kiljunen, all the representatives present after this section.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u90	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for the important comments received on the draft budget. Finland’s basic foreign and security policy is stable and predictable. It is based on good bilateral relations, cooperation and engagement within the European Union and multilateral cooperation based on a rule-based international system and international law. The fundamental value of foreign and security policy is the promotion of human rights, the rule of law, democracy, peace, freedom, tolerance and equality in all international activities. Global challenges, such as climate change, pandemics and technological change, affect our operating environment as independent phenomena, exacerbating the impact of already identified developments. As a result of the pandemic, inequalities are at risk of increasing and fragile countries are becoming more fragile. The global economic downturn triggered by the pandemic poses difficult challenges for achieving the SDGs. At the same time, international co-operation structures suffer from different conflicts. It is therefore more necessary for Finland to defend a rule-based international system than ever before. Finland aims to become a member of the UN Human Rights Council for the period 22-24. The European Union is the main reference framework and channel for Finland's external relations and the security community. There are elements in relations between the major powers, not only of increasing competition and confrontation but also of interdependence. The United States and China are competing for global leadership, affecting relations with countries worldwide and forcing other countries and actors, such as the EU, to reflect on their position in the new political, economic and ideological competition. Africa's role as a strategic partner for the EU is growing. Russia is seeking a more important role, which is also reflected in the security situation in the Baltic Sea. The geopolitical, environmental and economic importance of the Arctic region is increasing. Comprehensive Nordic cooperation is increasingly important in an unstable international environment. Finland will hold the presidency next year in the Nordic Foreign Affairs Ministers’ Foreign and Security Policy Cooperation in the N5, the Nordic Council of Ministers and Nordic-Baltic Cooperation (NB8). Mr President! As the Committee on Foreign Affairs states in its opinion, the presence in the world is an important source of knowledge and influence. The representative network serves the interests of Finland and Finns extensively in various sectors of central government and society. The work of the delegations in the middle of the corona pandemic has been invaluable in monitoring, predicting and understanding the progress of the crisis as well as in helping Finns around the world. During the pandemic, our delegation and its staff have been and are under great pressure. Although the capacity of the delegations has remained largely good, I share the concerns of the Committee on Finance about the ability of staff to cope in a situation where the interest rate situation in most of the countries in which they are employed is much more difficult than in Finland. The strengthening of the network of representations under the Government Programme is now more topical than ever from the point of view of economic recovery. The importance of the representation network for a small export-driven country cannot be forgotten in the transition to post-coronation treatment. In addition to the four new delegations included in the Government Programme, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has proposed the creation of two new delegations during the parliamentary term. The draft budget provides for the opening of three new delegations. The location of the new representations will be decided later, with the main emphasis on the Government Programme in South-East and Southern Asia and Western Africa. At the beginning of September, the Finnish Embassy in Manila in the Philippines was reopened. In this context, I would like to thank the committees for their support for strengthening the network of delegations. Changes in the international operating environment will increase the security and security needs of the Finnish delegation network. As the Committee on Finance points out, it is necessary to prepare for increased security threats. Mr President! Conflict prevention and peace mediation and building are a strong focus of Finland's foreign policy, especially during and after the corona pandemic. Finland will continue to support the dialogue processes related to mediation and promote the resolution of ongoing conflicts and strengthen mediation and mediation capacity. Finland will continue to actively participate in international crisis management in the framework of both military and civilian crisis management. Finland’s priorities for international crisis management missions are Lebanon, Iraq, Afghanistan and Georgia, but Finland also participates in operations in Kosovo, Africa and the Mediterranean. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u91	Mr President! I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance for their positive attitude towards the increase in development funding in 2021. At the same time, I share the concern of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance that Finland is still lagging behind the 0.7% GDP target for development cooperation set by the UN, which is estimated to reach 0.52% in 21. I would also like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance for their strong support for the government's efforts to prepare a scheduled road map to achieve the 0.7% target. I also share the concern that, as a result of the corona crisis, the world's extreme poverty and hunger are turning to growth and many positive results from development cooperation funds are now at risk. As the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Finance quotes in their reports, Finland also prepares through development cooperation for the post-coronation of coronapandemic treatment in order to respond to acute crises, including through development cooperation. Finland has increased the level of humanitarian aid by EUR 12.5 million in next year's budget. Humanitarian aid was also significantly strengthened as part of the October amending budget, which is already being implemented following the adoption of Parliament's proposal. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs also attaches importance to its support from the committees for the promotion of development priorities and, in particular, to strengthening the rights and status of women and girls, including sexual and reproductive health and rights. Finland wants to strengthen its support for the education sector in crisis situations. We know from our own experience that school meals have far greater effects than mere nutrition. As WFP's school food ambassador, I seek to strengthen political and financial support for school meals in developing countries and humanitarian crises. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs emphasises the strengthening of its own responsible business and job creation in developing countries, and thanks the committees for their support for financial investments in development cooperation and for Finnfund's capital increase. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs attaches importance to the approach taken by both committees in order to increase transparency in the development budget. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to respond to this need by launching a data portal on development cooperation funding in the next year, which will allow transparent access to funding at project level. In addition, with a view to promoting budget monitoring and evaluation, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will in future report more closely on the distribution of the actual development cooperation item, as stated in the opinion of UaV and VaV, international organisations receiving multilateral assistance, the largest bilateral countries and regions and climate finance from the budget. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has developed an element of leadership in strategic planning in the processes of the Action and Economic Plan and the preparation of the budget by setting quantitative targets, inter alia, for thematic priorities, climate finance and the distribution of aid to the least developed countries. The development of budgetary processes also seeks to respond to the points raised by the committees on the clarification of the criteria for development funding, including climate finance. Mr President! I would also like to thank the Committee on Finance for adding EUR 200,000 to this item for the global education of NGOs in support of development cooperation. In part, the increase shown by Parliament can be targeted at the ongoing search for communication and global education and will allow for greater support for high-quality global education projects. Mr President! In brief on the promotion of exports: Now effective export and internationalisation promotion work is more important than ever and there is demand for Finnish solutions. Now we need to be on the front line to offer Finnish solutions and, above all, to move from export promotion to concrete export trade, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its Team Finland network play a key role.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u92	Mr President! I would also like to thank Parliament and the committees for their very positive attitude towards Nordic cooperation and gender equality work. As Mrs Vähämäki has said, Finland will be the Nordic Council of Ministers' presidency next year, and we will certainly try to maximise the opportunities for influence. I look forward to that year, and our key message will be “Northern countries, together”. Finland's mission is to implement the Nordic vision, with the aim of making the Nordic Region the most sustainable and integrated region in the world by 2030. I personally think it is important always to raise the removal of border barriers as a kind of key project for cooperation ministers. This corona crisis has shown that we can look for deeper cooperation in many areas. One of these is security of supply. That is why Finland has taken the initiative to strengthen the cooperation on security of supply and preparedness during the Presidency, and security of supply applies to all functions vital to society, in all situations, not only during this pandemic. During the Presidency, Finland will also develop two other specific projects: one is a network of circular economy know-how in the construction sector, and in the second project Finland will support the development of an innovative, digitally integrated Nordic region.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u93	Mr President! Thank you, ministers, for the introduction. You have a big responsibility. You have a large section where Finland's image is formed abroad, and Finland's well-being and success also depend on the success and development of foreign trade. I would like to thank Business Finland for keeping an eye on it all the time and for stepping up its work in the sense that more is being done to promote exports, because companies need, if ever, proper support so that we can get the Finnish economy back on track after this covid. In that sense, I would have asked the ministers: What new openings are planned, something that has not yet been discussed in some way? I am sure there are still some new openings under way, how we are going from here, because after the covid it is extremely urgent to get back on the market again. I hope that Finland will be among the first to take over those economic areas for its part. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u94	Mr President! Now I startled the Speaker, or my phone startled... [ The speaker’s microphone is not switched on]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u97	Honorable Speaker! Thank you for these praises. Of course, I will present the report by the committee and the section as it has been done, without adding my own ideas to it. I guess this is how it's supposed to be done. [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u98	Mr President! I believe that this issue of security of supply is absolutely central, which ministers also raised in these presentations. After all, we also raised that as an integral part of this report on foreign and security policy when this debate took place between the Monitoring Group and the Government. This pandemic showed us how essential it is that security of supply works and the mistakes we have seen and the weaknesses we have in the EU. In fact, I would like to ask in this connection: When we have In the Nordic countries, under the leadership of Finland, we are now starting to build up this cooperation around security of supply, what are the concrete means? After all, there is now food and energy at the heart of it, and also military security of supply insofar as we have defence industries in the Nordic countries and Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u99	Mr President! First of all, thank you, Mr Blomqvist, for the update on gender equality. Sometimes I would like to have a topical debate on the subject here in the Chamber, so we could talk more. But then I will quote a little from Helsingin Sanomat: “The world bank is experiencing extreme poverty this year for the first time in twenty years. Coronavirus can increase the number of people in this category by between 88 and 115 million. In 21 C.E., the number can reach up to 150 million. According to a recent report by the World Bank, the pandemic will intensify the effects of conflicts and climate change, which had already slowed down poverty reduction in the past." I would like to ask: how do we ensure that the corona vaccine and other measures necessary to combat corona virus are extended to the poorest?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u100	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the ministers for their comprehensive, good speeches. In particular, I would like to raise the issue of peacekeeping, crisis management and women. Peacekeeping and crisis management have been an integral part of Finland’s foreign and security policy for over six decades. After all, the UN's objective is that 15% of peacekeepers should be women. The figure in Finland is currently around 5%, and I understand that the government's objective is to increase this figure to 7%. Finland must increase female peacekeepers, and real efforts are needed to strengthen women's participation. I'd like to ask, how do we do this? What's the government's plan?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u101	Ärade talman, Mr President! I think this section is particularly interesting in that it tells us exactly what everything is about and how important it is that we as Finns are involved in building and solving and finding solutions to the global challenges that affect us. I believe that this covid period has shown everyone in Finland that we have to be active in the world and bring our stakes and solutions — including solving the reasons — to get out of this. There have been good speeches on vaccines, but of course the hunger and the conflicts caused by hunger as a result of covid, and the declining development that is now threatening developing countries, are a particular threat — not only to human health but also to the conflicts and the consequences of conflicts. At the moment we have especially many
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u102	Mr. Speaker! I agree with the Committee on Finance that more detailed information is needed on these development aid targets in Parliament. For example, I have recently read that Finland supports Venezuela in their refugee situation. After all, there in Venezuela people have been forced to flee socialism to capitalist countries. Venezuela has been an oil-rich country. Venezuela’s oil reserves are in fact the largest in the world. They're even bigger than Saudi Arabia. Perhaps I would ask the Minister in this connection: could it be possible in Finland, too, to make people understand and educate in the light of this example, now that we are in a socialist country to donate money, that socialism simply does not work?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u103	Mr President! According to the Coalition Party, internationality is a lifeline for Finland, and we are mainly satisfied with the investments made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the administrative sector. The budget for development cooperation is rising here, and on the other hand, I agree with Mr Tavio's point of view that there is a need for more information on these issues. And we also believe in the meeting that it would be good if at least some of these development cooperation funds were invested, not only in the public sector, but also in the private sector, with private capital, so that these business opportunities could be improved. Mr President! I'd like to ask the Minister. From the Haavisto, a very specific issue, that is, what will happen in Afghanistan now in the future. President Trumphan has proposed that troops be withdrawn from there, and if future President Biden continues this policy, that is to say, to do so, what consequences will it have for European countries?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u104	Mr President! The words of the section president were reasonable and, although they were his own, they were also quite reasonable. I would like to raise a few points: The promotion of exports is, of course, accompanied by this network of delegations, and some have criticised that this should not be the case in such an economic situation, but I believe that this is exactly the way to do it, that we are now investing in and building these contacts, while at the same time serving Finnish citizens even better in these areas. Civilian crisis management is one thing I would like to say a few words about. After all, we now have 40% of women in expert positions. We have done well in Finland. But, as Mr Pelkonen said, the situation is weak, particularly in the area of military crisis management. How do we make the EU countries understand, above all, that the role of women in these tasks and in civilian crisis management must be increased? Then there is the question of Nordic cooperation: how does the Minister assess whether our neighbours in the West were injured when the borders were closed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u105	Let us take a few more questions, and then the ministers will be able to answer.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u106	Mr President! As the ministers also said, corona pandemic and its many effects pose a major threat to the progress of the SDGs. It is therefore very important and welcome that Finland also prepares for this post-coronation treatment through development cooperation. The fight against poverty, the reduction of inequalities and the defence of human rights are all the more important objectives today. Unfortunately, the corona has also offered the opponents of women's and girls' rights a smoke screen or an excuse to undermine the right to quality sexual health services, among other things. Services have been limited, abortion rights are being fought around the world, and access to knowledgeable sexual education has been reduced in remote education. We are talking not only about women's and girls' rights, about human rights, but also about health. I would like to hear more about how Finland can strengthen the implementation of sexual rights around the world in the post-coronation treatment of corona pandemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u107	Mr President! The question of developing relations with Russia: After all, they have not been on the list of things to be developed at the Foreign Office in recent times. At least in the administration, the attitude has been rather lukewarm. But the question of Russian trade in particular: Finland's exports to Russia are now, after all, if the corona period is dropped, from 8 billion to about 3 billion in about 10 years. This has, of course, been influenced by international sanctions policy. On the other hand, these Nord Stream pipeline projects have brought a boost. Imports from Russia have been twenty years, 30 years higher than exports, in that central part of the raw materials of course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u108	Mr President! Nordic cooperation emerged in these ministerial speeches, and so it is good. I personally support deeper NB8, Nordic-Baltic cooperation, i.e. the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries. In many policy areas, the Baltic countries have made the right solutions, and there are many different types of activity. Take, for example, the digital cooperation mentioned by Mr Blomqvist. You mentioned it in Nordic cooperation, but Estonia, for example, is very active: there is a lot of expertise in these cyber issues and there is an e-Estonia system. Lithuania, which I know very well — I am the chairman of that group of friends — is also very active in various digital issues. In fact, the Lithuanian and Polish Financial Times were about a year ago at the forefront of such digital solutions and start-up environments in Europe. What is your position, Minister Haavisto, as to whether the NB8 cooperation should be intensified?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u109	Secretary Haavisto, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u110	Mr President! Thank you for the good questions and comments. The chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Mr Niikko, pointed out what new things are going on here, and Mr Skinner will tell us directly about the promotion of exports, but we have also talked a lot about mobility and, among other things, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now begun to prepare this model of "D" visas in which: Finland could issue such a separate visa, which could be relevant, especially in the case of interest rate conditions. We are also starting to prepare for the possibility of a Global Entry Agreement, which would facilitate US transport. This kind of thing has now made things more topical with us. Mr Kiljunen asked about the rule-based order and this community of democratic countries, which is being promoted by the United States. After all, it is good that democracy is strengthened and democratic countries are also discussing how it is strengthened. But, yes, our message has been that its message from the democratic community should be to strengthen the UN and it should be directed specifically at the UN being used as a forum and that it should be. Nothing out of the UN is the line when this cooperation between democratic countries is being taken forward. Mr Savola raised the issue of security of supply, and I am sure there are other comments here, but I would like to say that, in the debate on strategic autonomy in the EU, what has been said is the strategic autonomy – some think it only in military terms – of the very high level of security of supply and, for example, such medicines and hospital equipment, breathing machines, things of this kind that have now been recognised as necessary in this corona crisis, and how to strengthen the EU's own strategic autonomy in these areas. Of course, Finland, within the framework of the EU, also supports security of supply, and we will probably hear what is happening separately in the Nordic countries. Mr Pelkonen raised a very good question about the role of women in crisis management. It is precisely this weak percentage of military crisis management that we have been concerned about, and we are trying to increase it. Fortunately, that part of civilian crisis management, if I remember correctly, has a percentage of about 40, which means that there is a stronger participation of women, but there is a desire to use all the means to do this and also to accept ideas if the Members of Parliament have an idea of how to improve women's participation in this. That would be very important. However, the participation of women in key tasks has already been a very strong message from Finland. Mr Tavio asked about Venezuela, and perhaps on this political side I say that the Venezuelan crisis, as you well described, has put pressure on these neighbouring countries. Refugees have come from Venezuela to help the UN and these countries in neighbouring countries, and the crisis is huge, I think they talk about over a million refugees in the direction of Colombia.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u112	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u113	Does Secretary Skinner or Blomqvist want it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u114	Mr President! Thank you for a good debate and good questions. In fact, to begin with, Mr Tavio has raised this issue. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has already paged Venezuela, and yes, Finland supports the UN Refugee Agency, Finland does not support Venezuela. Finland supports and helps people who need help. Besides, Finland does not provide budget support, Finland supports those actors who help people in distress. I hope this message gets through now. And thank you also for allowing us to discuss these principles in your group meeting for a longer time, and I am happy to continue this discussion. Representative Niikko and representative Vähämäki, was an excellent question as to what new openings Finland will make, what new openings to export. This is a key issue for Finland and will also be part of the sustainable growth programme that the Government is now working on together. In June, at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we set up a business-to-government platform in which our Thematic Ambassadors, six of them, in a new way, networkly create global solutions to the international demand that exists and which is now being created, especially when the whole world revives. So we see international demand and create an overall supply, and now every ambassador around the world has put together a solid package of what demand there is in what market. Now, of course, the question is how our business and our companies, of all sizes, respond to that demand. Finland has a lot of expertise and a lot to offer, but our problem is the small size of our companies, and we must support the construction of these consortia in many ways. This has been a weak point for us for a long time, and that is what I want now to change, so that we can have them from the whole project method and programmes to system-level solutions, system-level deliveries and real shops.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u117	Mr President! In fact, I will try to answer three questions raised by the representatives. Firstly, I should like to complete the good answers which Mr Haavisto and Mr Skinner have already said about this cooperation on security of supply. As far as Nordic cooperation is concerned, we are In the Nordic countries, so integrated in our societies and economies that it is natural to intensify this cooperation also on security of supply and preparedness issues. Prime Minister Marin raised this question in the summer, and that is what we are now in the process of driving as the Finnish Presidency next year. This is cross-sectoral cooperation, involving ministries as well as industry, and it is natural to intensify this work for all functions vital to society in all situations. This initiative is now being prepared in the interministerial network, where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs coordinates this work, and the preparatory phase aims to enable us to act during the presidency next year. Then to the second question asked by Mr Ovaska: were the neighbouring countries injured? Well, here at least Norway, Denmark and Finland introduced restrictions on border movement. This has been discussed a lot. What I can say is that the links with neighbouring countries have been working and good, are still working. We have discussed this quite a lot, and during the spring crisis Finland and Sweden, among others, were also able to ensure that this necessary and necessary cross-border traffic could be managed. But of course these restrictions have particularly affected the lives of the people living in the border regions, the Tornio River Valley and the Åland Islands, to name a few, and of course the aim now is that we will be able to communicate better in future and also in advance if there is a need for similar restrictions. These have been painful decisions, but understanding has been found at least at government level, and we are trying to minimise the adverse effects of course. Then the third representative on the question of cooperation between the Nordic and Baltic countries: the Finnish Presidency will continue, among other things, the joint project on electronic identification between the Nordic and Baltic countries. It will continue, and it is a good project. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u118	Now, ladies and gentlemen, we can continue the debate for a while. Stand up and press the V button if you want to talk again. — Chairman of the Committee, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u119	Thank you, esteemed Speaker! And thank you to the ministers. Mr Skinner, you have done a good job in this context, which has now been possible, and we will of course continue to wish you success. But now that you are in a very important position, not only as a minister, but as chairman and captain of the football club in Parliament, would it not be time to stimulate this type of football diplomacy with those countries that want to trade with us? We have good relations with many countries, as we have travelled together on many trips. I could use some of this. A lot of questions have come to me from those who would like to meet us and face us, and I very much doubt that there is another minister in the world who is captain of the football club in Parliament. Minister Blomqvist, you had a good grip and a good perspective on this Nordic cooperation. I regret that we have not had the opportunity and the opportunity to invite you to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for consultation, but that is something we will correct. The first point could be in the context of Agenda 2030,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u120	Next, the vice-chairman of the committee, the representative of the Judgments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u121	Mr President! As chairman of the Finnish delegation to the Nordic Council, I would just like to say that the Swedish delegation has sent a letter to all the other Nordic representatives about this, but if we are to be honest, this is not just the border issue. This is also a health issue, and we have had a different approach to how this covid crisis is handled in all other Nordic countries, and so far, however, the results in terms of health and prevention of death have been substantially different in Finland and other Nordic countries than in Sweden. It must be said quite honestly that we have had to resort to these – including within the country, between Uusimaa and the rest of Finland – and they have been a health-based and coherent policy, and I understand that this has not made it difficult or has contributed to the fact that Nordic cooperation will continue to be good in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u122	Mr President! Thank you to the ministers for their good presentations, and, as Mr Kauma has already said, internationalism is a prerequisite for Finland, and in that sense I am very grateful that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' administrative efforts are of this kind and have gone on. A few words on development cooperation: After all, it is a step forward in the parliamentary committee, and I am a little concerned that we are still trying too hard with direct support, and in this development cooperation, I think it is a fine old saying that if you give a man a fish, he will eat of it once, but if you teach a man how to fish, he will get food for the rest of his life. Minister Skinner there replied to this in terms of investment-based development cooperation, and I believe that there could be even greater ambition. I believe that it would be possible to create opportunities for businesses to act and work for people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u123	There have been a lot of good speeches here, Mr President. Playfully, I could continue with that good speech by Mr Nikon on football diplomacy: Qatar is going to be the world championship organiser and there is quite a lot going on there at the moment. It would be interesting to see how Qatar could invest in Finland, and it would also be interesting to see whether it would be possible to open the next delegation in Qatar. It is also interesting for Qatar that from the Finnish perspective, as a mediation country, any improvement in relations between the other Gulf countries and Qatar could also contribute to bringing a little peace to the Middle East. In that sense, football diplomacy was a very good start from President Niiko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u126	Irade the Talman! Det nordiska samarbetet har variant långvarigt och är djupt. Det var nästan så att många blev förvånade och uppttäckte att vi är TVå skilda länder när coronakrisen bröt ut. Det är alldeles naturligt: vi har vår nordiska valfärdsmodell vi talar om, vi har likanande samhällsstrukturer, vi utvecklas och lever mer eller mindre i symbios också när det gäller näringslivet.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u127	Madam President! I welcome these answers, as far as this security of supply is concerned, from all ministers, but I would nevertheless remind you that it must be complementary to our domestic security of supply and to these key factors. But, in this sense, this issue of seasonal labour is linked to our own food security. This was an acute time last spring because of this corona crisis, and with Ukraine, for example, this was not the best way to communicate and get seasonal labour. In fact, the question is now on the side of the Foreign Ministry: let us go through this type of discussion in advance, so that, for example, seasonal labour for agriculture, berry picking and so on, this type of question can be settled in good time so that we do not have to rush these things when the situation is in place? I'm sure on the Department of Agriculture and Forestry' side of this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u128	Honorable Speaker! I stayed to consider the point raised here by the representative of the park, namely this Nordic-Baltic cooperation NB8. I was wondering what the mechanism for Finland's representation there was, who represented Finland there. There has been much less talk about this than this Nordic cooperation, and I think it is quite clear about the Finnish Presidency, but when Finland also holds the presidency there in NB8, I was just wondering whether it would be the clearest that the same person represented in the Nordic cooperation is Finland's representative in this Nordic-Baltic cooperation. When I do not know, that is why I am asking this question, and it is timely: the Finnish Presidency will begin at that turn of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u129	Mr President! Education is the cornerstone of sustainable development. Education is a basic prerequisite for poverty reduction, job creation, economic growth, equality, stable democracy and the fight against climate change. None of the priorities of Finland's development policy will actually be realised without high-quality education. What could be the concrete measures that Finland intends to take to promote this education priority and to use Finland's strong educational expertise to develop education in developing countries, both in the field of development cooperation and in the field of education exports?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u130	Mr President! Of course, all in all, it is great that we are talking here about the creation of new representations, when everyone will probably remember the situation a few years ago, when we had to think about where to take them away from. But I would like to continue with this issue of the development of consortium activities. Mr Skinner, I myself have been involved in the export trade with you, and I know that quite often small players even compete with each other in that Finnish activity, and that slightly hinders this cooperation. In what way do you involve these small players in such a way that everyone feels that they are an important part of that development project and that there will not be such a culture of mutual competition? Mr President! Even then, I would like to ask Minister Haavisto about these issues in the field of immigration. In other words, we are currently having a delay in work-related immigration because this process is so slow. It is truly regrettable that a person first studies
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u131	Mr President! I've heard of ping pong diplomacy before, and now we're talking football diplomacy. I would like to ask the ministers: could there be an increase in tennis or chess diplomacy, so that I myself can play a role in these diplomatic patterns? [Laughter]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u132	Mr President! Policy, and especially foreign policy, has become faster and more and more intertwined with economic and technological issues. Compared to traditional international politics, this also imposes considerable demands on skills and staff, and I would like to ask: how have you taken account of these different requirements and the necessary expertise in different fields in the training of staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in recruitment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u133	Madam President! Mr Kiljunen is already playing in many international fields, so that I hope the ministers will be a little more patient with this expansion of the field. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has not yet responded to that crisis management. Above all, we could play a stronger role in the EU and, on the other hand, the EU could play a stronger role in civilian crisis management and also in military crisis management, although it does not directly concern you today — and, above all, in strengthening the role of women in those EU-led operations. As I said earlier, Finland is exemplary on the side of the civil krill in the proportion of women. Finally, on development cooperation, I would like to ask if the Minister could simply spell out what that would mean if development funds were cut to a minimum. Such presentations have come from time to time. What would that mean for Finland’s foreign policy status? How would that affect international cooperation and our position?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u134	Madam President! The UN has warned that as many as 235 million people — 40% more than this year — will need humanitarian emergency assistance in the coming year as a result of the interest rate. As Mr Hopsu has already pointed out, the number of people living in extreme poverty is increasing. As we all know, the most vulnerable are already at risk, such as girls, and I am talking specifically about girls. Much work has been done to improve the position of the world’s girls — work that must not be interrupted in the midst of a pandemic. I am sure it is a difficult question, but I still ask: how do we ensure that the important progress made in the role of girls is not broken?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u135	Before the ministerial speeches, we will have two replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u136	Mr President! Maybe it's a good thing that a lot of questions are connected. This Nordic framework is very interesting not only within the Nordic countries, but also in Europe as well as throughout the world, globally, not to mention development aid. I would like to ask the ministers: how did it seem to us that development funds are so much lower than in other Nordic countries that have already reached 0.7?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u137	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u138	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u139	Mr President! I also wanted to thank Mr Blomqvist for his uncompromising work on equality and also for presenting them here. It is in itself quite appropriate to deal with equality issues, or at least to ignore them in this area of administration of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because, as we know of course, equality is also a central issue from the perspective of Finland's foreign policy, and unfortunately the effects of the corona pandemic, for example, have also hit girls from developing countries, as Mr Pelkonen well described. My real question again relates to sexual health and this time to the United States. You can answer that question, which one of the ministers knows how to handle it. President Trumphan recently began his term by adopting such a regulation, which limits the funding of many family planning organisations. It has significantly made it difficult not only to have abortions but also to have other sexual health services, not only in the United States but also internationally. This policy endangers the lives and health of millions of girls and women around the world, and now the future President, President Biden, is charging a lot of expectations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u140	At the end of this debate, all ministers will have three minutes to speak, and who will begin?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u141	Mr President! I'll try to survive in three minutes. — Representative Judgments and representative Norrback raised this question as to whether this corona period has damaged relations with Sweden or with the Nordic countries. I must say that last spring it was difficult, very difficult, for example, when the Tornio Valley issue was discussed, and perhaps when we closed down Uusimaa and others, our analysis of the nature of the disease and its development was different, when the Nordic countries had a different picture of what was needed and what else, they were difficult weeks and months, but now we are closer to the situation that is the same picture of the situation. On this point Mr Kausto asked me if we could move forward with development cooperation, and I would have pointed out that there is now a very wide-ranging Africa strategy. There is our political cooperation, there is commercial cooperation, there is investment, there is cooperation between a young generation and so on, and I think this is the moment when we should jump in a way, not abandon the framework, but think about how we can build good and effective relations with Africa on its development cooperation. Representative al-Taee asked about Qatar, Doha, mediation: We have, of course, hoped that this Arab dispute would be resolved. I went to Doha, Qatar myself, and we had good conversations. Of course, they raised the issue from their own point of view. We also talked about this normalisation between Israel and the Arab countries, which is taking place between the Emirates, Sudan and others. It would make it easier for everyone when this cooperation started to work in that area.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u143	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u146	Mr President, ärade talman! Representative Niikko raised the issue of football and football diplomacy, thanks for that as the captain of the parliamentary football team. It is true that we are playing with four European countries, and it is true that culture, sport, everything matters, and certainly we all share the opportunity that we can do in all these areas.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u147	Mr President! It is easy to agree with this comment and view of the Judge. The cooperation will continue to be good. And I also agree with what Mr Haavisto said about these difficulties and challenges that we have had.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u148	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! The gym is full of diplomats. Sounds like it. Finland’s foreign policy is guided by human rights-based principles. In accordance with the Government Programme, Finland wants to be a bigger influence and assume global responsibility. With the interest-rate crisis, the world’s extreme poverty is about to grow for the first time in over 20 years. Climate change and conflicts increase the risk of food shortages and many positive results from development cooperation funds are at risk. Active and local participatory development cooperation is therefore one of the important tools for foreign and security policy. Development cooperation has the potential to help millions of people towards a better tomorrow. Finland’s development policy and cooperation are also climate and equality policies. Our work is based on and is based on the implementation of Agenda 2030 of the Sustainable Development Agenda and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Development cooperation also highlights the rights of women and girls, especially sexual and reproductive health. Strengthening democracy and enabling quality education are also at the heart of development cooperation. All this work is extremely important, but it must be long-term. The world of development cooperation is not a world of quick wins. In total, Finland’s public development cooperation is estimated to amount to around EUR 1.2 billion in 21 years, which represents approximately 0.52 per cent of gross national income. Although the additions of this reign are quite welcome and show Finland’s consolidation in the fight against global inequality, work on the UN’s 0.7 commitment and objective is still sufficient. In order to achieve that important objective, it is necessary to create a clear road map. Its preparation is under way in the parliamentary working group and I hope that a joint over-election commitment will be achieved in order to ensure that development cooperation continues to be predictable and secure over the parliamentary term. It is important not only for cooperation with partner countries, but also for Finnish and international development cooperation organisations, so that their important work can have predictable prospects for the future. Mr President! The peace work carried out by Finland will become more visible and will be strengthened by the establishment of a mediation centre under the political department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The activities of the Mediation Centre imprison Finland’s mediation expertise, co-ordination and effectiveness of work in the world. It is great that the draft budget has allocated its own fixed budget for mediation. The decision is therefore a good continuum for long-term work in the prevention and reconstruction of world conflicts. Finland supports peace mediation dialogue processes, promotes solutions to ongoing conflicts, and strengthens mediation activities and mediation capacities both nationally and internationally. I also share Mr Ovaska's reflection on the need to strengthen EU civilian crisis management and crisis management and cooperation in this area. Mr President! The situation of Finnish embassies and embassies in the world has been hampered by the Koronapandem. The corona situation in most countries has been significantly more difficult than in Finland. Despite this, the capacity of the delegations has remained largely good. However, it will also be important to maintain the ability and well-being of the staff and to secure resources in order, for example, to reduce the congestion in visa applications. In addition to work-related visas, it is absolutely essential, despite the interest rate period, to be able to issue visas also to family members and partners of Finns. The importance of information security and digital fluency is growing, and it is good that we can now invest EUR 1.4 million in this proposal. Representations contribute to building the profile of Finland around the world. During the last government, delegation networks have been driven down for reasons of austerity. The current level does not take the best account of the situation in a rapidly changing world. That is why it is great that the objective of the current regime has been to set up four new delegations. Finally, I would like to highlight the Committee's contribution to global education by organisations and educational institutions, among others. Social peace is enhanced by the fact that as many people as possible have the experience of understanding what is happening in the world,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u149	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here about the investments made by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the administrative sector for next year. I'd like to raise a few more points. Unfortunately, Secretary Skinner has already left. I would have thanked him for adding 20 man-years to Finland's foreign missions on Team Finland's side next year. I think that is an excellent thing, and, in fact, Mr Biaudet has just made a good speech on this point in relation to the fact that, although we are working with the Baltics and the Nordic countries, we are still about 30 million people, which, of course, is quite small compared to many other countries alone, and we often find that Finland alone is a very small factor. In fact, Mr Haavisto, I would have liked to have heard your answer to this question by Mr Biaudet, that such matters can affect the appointment or not of Finns to UN posts. It would be very important for us to have Finnish expertise and representation there as well. Mr President! I would like to highlight these international organisations in which Finland and Parliament are involved, of course the UN, the Nordic Council, the Council of Europe and the OSCE as the most important of them. When I myself am involved in the OSCE, I would stress this importance of election observation, especially during this period. After all, this year we have had election observers in Georgia and the United States, and I was involved in both missions, and next year, as soon as January, there will be missions in Kyrgyzstan and Kazakhstan. I would see that such action must also be maintained under exceptional circumstances, because if our message is that no one is sent there it is also a message of democracy. In times of exceptional circumstances, in times of pandemic, it is quite often the case that those in power take an even stronger hold of power, and they particularly hold on to it in such young democracies, such as those of the former Soviet Union. It is very important that we support them in maintaining democracy and also in holding these elections, especially the parliamentary elections, at the time they are planned to be held. Mr President! I appreciate that the Finnish budget is maintained in these organisations and that the Council of Presidents has also appreciated that Finns are involved in these operations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u150	Mr President! Colleagues! I would like to start with exports: at some level this has been ignored, and from time to time we hear in discussions that development aid, for example, should not be too much linked to exports and aid must be given as such, i.e. aid. I personally feel, especially when I come from a region where there is a great deal of development aid, that the greatest desire in those areas where people talk is that Finland and well-developed countries such as Finland should, for example, have technical know-how to reduce corruption and red tape, or, for example, know-how related to the supply of water, which would make it possible not to apply for water from miles away, but to have it right away, and therefore, for example, girls who are generally responsible for water fetching, get close water and get to school and save time. In other words, the fact that Finnish companies are able to export to countries where we are highly profiled and where we export development aid is actually positive and desirable, and I believe that this should be supported. It can also be supported by the fact that when there are already quite a lot of people here from different countries — easily over a hundred languages are spoken in Finland at the moment in these large cities, Vantaa, Espoo, Helsinki and many others — these people who are from other countries should be promoted in order to develop their own countries more appropriately than they are today. These people would be employed in different companies and would take Finnish expertise to them in their own countries. That is what Sweden is doing, and that is what we should be doing much more forcefully and purposefully. Then, to a greater extent, development aid and its associated foreign policy security impact: I feel strongly that they — that is, we — who have the opportunity to see far and think far, are also obliged to do so. The interest crisis has increased anxiety and hunger around the world, as has been said here at the mouth of Mr Pelkonen and Mr Hopsu. Over 200 million more people are suffering from extreme poverty, and that is about 40% of what we are doing today, that is, an increase that means that of course we have a responsibility to help our own citizens, but also those we can help elsewhere in the world. In this respect, it must also be said that it makes sense to help abroad, even from the point of view of self-interest. People do not want to leave their homes unless homes themselves turn into enemies, and this is by investing, as in this section, in the work of peace, in global education and in education, in these issues and in these efforts, to tackle the root causes of conflict in their own places, which, in the longer term, prevents migration and thus conflicts in those countries, in their neighbouring countries, but also here in Europe. That is why I am pleased to see that the peace mediation centre, which has been set up, has clearly also been budgeted and occupied and has also become this new category of emphasis on mediation as its own and that global and peace education is being increased. All these things support the idea that Finland aims to have fewer refugees in the world than it is today. There has been an enormous increase in numbers, but we will do our best to develop these peoples so that citizens can stay in their own countries and be happier there than they are in many respects today. This seems to be what Mrs Kausto said that a man or a woman would much rather be taught to fish than to give them just one fish to eat once.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u151	Mr President! We have had a good debate today in this section on the administrative sector of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and I would be happy to see more foreign policy in this House. Of course, the big thing was, the biggest, this recent report on foreign and security policy, but we would be happy to discuss foreign policy more. After all, we have different parliamentary groups in Parliament, and sometimes it seems that they go a little along with the different compasses, i.e. what is the cooperation between them, and then, on the other hand, the relationship between these international parliamentary groups and similar groups at ministerial level. I myself am the chairman of the Finnish delegation at this BSPC, the parliamentary conference in the Baltic Sea region, and there are many such groups within it, if you think we have the Nordic countries involved in it, Åland, we often have a förmöte in front of us, we have the Baltics in it, and then there are different EU countries and regions — Poland, the German regions — and then there are also Russian regions. Thank you to the ministers for a good debate!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u152	Madam President! Just as the previous speaker said, this debate is good and foreign policy should be discussed much more in this Chamber. Fortunately, there have now been good opportunities for this this autumn, because there have been various reports and then, of course, this parliamentary report, which was completed and which is now under discussion in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. These foreign and security policy lines in Finland are now being pursued across party boundaries in good cooperation. It is an essential part of the continuity of our foreign policy and our security policy. But, Madam President, in this budget and in the priorities for next year, it is absolutely essential that we maintain this network of delegations and that it is also extended. There are very important elements in it from the point of view of our exports, of course from the point of view of bilateral relations, and, of course, the fact that we are able to help Finns in that world, too, in various matters. Of course, it would always be hoped that all of our good staff, who are there, would also be very market-oriented like this — they are Finnish brand ambassadors in that world — and we would be able to take advantage of this trade and export and this type of activity to a very large extent of our staff, which operates in those delegations. I think that a great deal has been going on here, even during the time I myself have been allowed to be in Parliament, but it is also very important that we take care of this staff. Now it is a very difficult time and certainly that work, both there in the concrete activities of the embassy and beyond, is more difficult, because we have seen what this corona means for this kind of basic connection now. We in this House see it in that way, just as Mr Park well pointed out, that when we have these various parliamentary, international institutions, it is true that their importance in the conclusion of bilateral relations has been very much reduced in this corona period, when physical international meetings cannot be held. There are no new relationships in that meeting and communication through Teams or Skype. However, foreign policy is also very much the creation of personal relations, which can then promote relations between countries. For my part, I have been given action in this NATO parliamentary delegation, and this year there have been virtually no meetings on it. Madam Speaker! In that part of the debate, I raised my concern about this security of supply, and the ministers did give good answers to it. Again, it can be said that this year has taught us a great deal. The things that have been trusted and taken for granted have not been taken for granted, and that is why this sort of preparation and then preparing for new types of threats came up very strongly in this report paper too, and yes, we must continue this debate both within the EU, within the Nordic countries and beyond. If such things become equivalent to either health crises or, in the worst case, military crises, then it is very difficult for it to help any more. It has to be a pre-arranged, premeditated, pre-arranged reserve, and it can also be done well with other countries, that not everything needs to be done alone in Finland, but of course its basis has to be found, because it was discovered now that everyone is looking first and foremost at their own country when the time of the crisis comes. Madam Speaker! I think that next year's budget is balanced. The comments made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs in a very vigorous way have been taken up, and this is a good thing for us to continue our foreign and security policy. For my part, I would like to wish all my good colleagues a very good and peaceful Christmas time, with whom they have been able to make their debut. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u153	Madam President! I will concentrate my speech on international development policy and related comments on Finland. Here it is good to see the difference between governments. It's the vows that matter. Elections have many meanings. This is also reflected in foreign policy, in this case above all in development policy. We have a clear change of direction in Finland since the last government term. As far as development cooperation is concerned, it is reflected in the development of the volume and quality of development aid, of which we now have a budget proposal at hand. It is interesting that a great deal of debate has been held here today on the UN target of 0.7% of GDP for development cooperation, to which Finland already committed in 1970 when the second UN decade of development was declared. A relative target of this kind was then set for international development cooperation. In tenaciously, Finland has approached it gradually. At the beginning of the 1970s, Finland was already committed to reaching that 0.7% level by the end of the 1970s, and our neighbours, the Nordic countries, as we have seen today, achieved it — Norway, Sweden and Denmark. Sweden has been more than 1% for a long time. For the first time — and for a single time — Finland reached 0.7% in 1990. Thanks in part for the GDP bill that year, it was reached in 0.7. It was also budgeted very close to it. In other words, the fall in GDP was accompanied by a sharp fall in aid as a result of the economic crisis at the time. Then, from the mid-1990s onwards, it was gradually started to be built in such a way that by 2015 it was almost 0.6% — or was it 0.6 already broken — and once again it was collapsed to 0.35% during the last government term. And now we're going up hard. Now we're getting 0.52. In other words, this trend in the volume is directly reflected in the nature and impact of the government periods. But, Mr President, this is also reflected in the quality of development cooperation. We have many criteria for determining it. One is aid to the least developed countries. Here, too, we have an international target of 0.2% of GDP, and now the government has 0.18 of this draft budget. So it goes up a few tenths of a percent anyway, now from 0.16 to 0.18. And here, too, there is a change of focus. In particular, it is reflected in the NGO's support. It has been invested heavily, a great thing. It's important there. Humanitarian aid is rising strongly, and multilateral cooperation, which is one of the traditional quality criteria, is also heavily invested. Mr President! In this context, it may be useful to look not only at traditional development aid, its quality criteria, but at the basic paradigms underlying international development policy. An interesting change has taken place over the decades. At the time when this development objective was set as a target, comparisons were mostly made on the basis that some countries are poorer, others are richer. The proportion of prosperous industrialised countries was subject to an obligation to support poorer countries and poverty was measured as purely national productions per capita. These comparison calculations moved far at this level. GDP per capita countries were placed in an evolutionary order, and the debate moved on how to raise the poorer countries to a higher level. By the beginning of the '90s, this paradigm changed. It was realised that growth in GDP alone, the national product itself, determines the standard of living, because how these resources are distributed is a key issue. There were new criteria and, among other things, this Human Development Index was created within the framework of the UNDP, the United Nations Development Organisation. At that time, the key criteria were, on average, the expected life expectancy, which sums up well the human health and well-being situation, the level of education and then the standard of living, i.e. the calculation of GDP. With this criterion, Finland has ranked fairly well, among the top ten, throughout history, so that we are, of course, in the position of Donor, the donor in relation to the rest of the world. Now UNDP has developed a new index. For the first time this year, the Yearbook of the United Nations Development Programme has developed a new type of development index with the addition of resource use and carbon footprint. So this has widened into a new corner, and we too are talking about climate change as a key element. It is now an exciting situation to see how the countries are located. As far as Finland is concerned, we are in the 11th position for the development index. By expanding this to the use of natural resources and after carbon footprints, Finland will fall to the 30th, and so to speak, many other industrialised countries will get hurt. There will be some countries like Costa Rica where natural resource management is better than ours.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u154	Mr President! Det nordiska samarbetet har inhämtat många fördelar för oss i Finland. The Nordics är ett brand som på de flesta ställen i världen aven har positiva connotationer, goda vibrationer när det gäller trygghet, Väfärd, ren milö, Mänsskliga rättigheter. Norden är en alldeles särskild plats med tanke på barnens och kvinnornas rättigheter och ställning. Det är svårt att finna något likanande stanelle annans i världen. Kulturen och det culturella i Norden har en stor betydelse som motor, incubator, när det gäller samhällsutvecklingen och samhällsclimatet. Det är viktigt att på alla sätt främja öjligheterna för oss i Norden att ta del av varandras kulturliv — vare sig det gäller TV-sier, barnprogram eller discussioner kring identityt och mänskliga rättigheter. Jag vill påstå att Astrid Lindgrens barnböcker har format vår syn på barnens rättigheter, som har haft stor betydelse för utvecklingen i hela världen. Barnen är egna människor hos oss med rätt att höja sina röster i familinen, i skolan och i media här i Norden.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u155	Mr President! Finally, I would like to wish everyone a happy International Day of Migration. Global migration rates have increased during this millennium. As migration spreads, societies around the world face challenges in terms of both prejudice and opportunities. Ministers and representatives in the Chamber, we have a great deal of work to do to ensure that equality and non-discrimination are realised here in Finland for everyone. — And Merry Christmas to the ministers too!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u156	Mr President! I would like to raise one more theme. We have the Minister for Development Cooperation, Mr Skinner, here, and he has repeatedly stressed that trade and development policy must go hand in hand and support one another. This is the most sensible and comprehensive approach, to which the Foreign Minister also referred with regard to African policy. It is important that we see these various elements of cooperation blowing in the same direction. Trade policy can also be used as an instrument for development policy, as the Minister well knows and has repeatedly pointed out. I would like to raise one big question which should perhaps be even more strongly reflected in the Finnish guidelines, and this must be subject to a certain conditionality in trade policy, which relates to minimum labour standards. This is an old theme that has been mentioned for several decades, but some countries may gain a competitive edge by violating the basic standards of the International Labour Organisation. After all, we have the so-called fundamental minimum labour standards, which are generally about forced labour, the use of prison labour or the use of child labour, and also the protection of the right of workers to organise, including labour rights, in the country. These would be the criteria for conditionality — as has been the case with the rule of law in many other contexts, which could also be an element that should be highlighted, inter alia, because of the dangers of corruption. I remained to ask the Minister: how far could this go to ensure that this international trade policy agreement also clearly defined these minimum labour standards, which would of course also improve the conditions for development in countries more generally?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u157	To this end, every minister has two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u158	Mr President! First of all, thank you to Parliament for a good debate — a lot of contributions I can fully endorse. I will answer a few questions that have been asked. Mr Kauma and, in fact, Mr Biaudet asked whether these UN posts could be influenced by our development resources or by the lack of others. It certainly does, but my own experience, when I worked at the UN and looked at the Member States from that point of view, is the general activity and initiative of the Member States. Good initiatives, sensible initiatives are very welcome in the world of the UN, and the fact that a Member State is presenting them and raising them is important. I would like to take this as an example when, through the UNHCR, we raised the issue of refugees with disabilities. It had been considered by the staff there, but had not really been able to begin. Then there came a Member State that said that this is a priority; this needs to be done. Then the other Member States came along, and the matter moved on. I think it would be important to think about and take forward good UN initiatives. Mr Kauma also raised the importance of election observation, and thank you for that. Your contribution to the follow-up to the US election was very important. It is good to hear that this election observation work continues. I fully agree that this must be supported. Mr Pelkonen raised the issue of the situation of girls in this middle of a corona pandemic, and there is a common concern that in many developing countries the development of girls may go backwards. Representative Hyrkko asked if there was any information about the United States, which will be the line for sexual and reproductive health during Biden. We look forward to this, but, of course, we look forward to it with a positive spirit, so that we can move forward on these matters. Representative Ovaska took up this crisis management issue in the EU, strengthening EU crisis management. I agree with you. Perhaps also from the Finnish way of thinking: I have often thought about the enormous significance of the fact that in 56 C.E., the troops left in sarcastic pants for Suez, which was preceded by a debate. We were a country recovering from the war and then decided to take part in the UN operation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u159	Mr President! For my part, I would also like to thank you for the debate we have had, and I would like to emphasise Finland's contribution to the global learning crisis and education as a whole, and that is reflected in our budget – and thank you for that confidence too. The common vision of trade and development, cooperation on the principles of working life and sustainable development, are very important in many ways. Representative Savola was well aware of the importance of exports and Team Finland activities. I would also emphasise the importance of digitalisation here too and virtual opportunities. For example, I was already a hologram at the opening of the Olympic Pavilion at our embassy in Tokyo, and I was told that it looked fine — thanks to Nokia and Finnish engineering know-how that this kind of virtuality is possible, also on behalf of Minister Lintilä. But all in all, we must have the goal that we are the best in the world virtually and that we do the services so well that we are known for it, and that is what we have managed to do before. Congressman Kauma, thank you for your thanks. New 20 human-year resources: It is very important now that they have clear goals, goals at country level and then at national level, when we join forces. A very important new resource, and thank you for the confidence that we will be able to deploy 20 Finnish business experts to carefully selected targets. All in all, on the competence of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: The Minister of Foreign Affairs has already explained the importance of Kavaku. I would like to raise some of the themes from there: digital policy, knowledge of climate policy — those areas of future policy and today's policy that Finland needs to be really good at. We need that diplomat's deep expertise, but at the same time, of course, the social abilities, sales and marketing skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-12-18-ps-169.u160	Mr President! For my part, too, thank you for a good debate and good questions. I really want to say that I think Mr Biaudet has made a very good speech here.
