ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 21/2020 vp. It is now up to us to decide whether or not Parliament will give its consent to a representative. To prosecute Mäenpää for the crime referred to in the request for authorisation to prosecute. I note that, in accordance with Article 32 of the Constitution, the representative is unable to participate in the decision-making process in matters concerning him personally. However, he may take part in the debate in plenary. — Statement by Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u2	Madam President! On 16 January 1920, the Prosecutor General has sent to Parliament a request for a warrant under Article 30(2) of the Constitution requesting the consent referred to in that paragraph to prosecute the MP Juha Mäenpää for his statement at the Parliament on 12 June 2019. The Prosecutor General considers Mäenpää to have committed the most likely crime of arousal. According to Article 30(2) of the Constitution, a Member of Parliament may not be prosecuted or deprived of his or her freedom as a result of the opinions he has expressed in Parliament or of the procedure he has followed in the proceedings, unless the Parliament has agreed to it by a decision which is supported by at least five sixths of the votes cast. The Constitution or the Rules of Procedure of Parliament do not contain any specific provisions on the handling of such a request for prosecution in Parliament. During the period of independence, Parliament has dealt with this before in three cases a request to prosecute a Member of Parliament for the opinions he has expressed in Parliament. In all cases, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has adopted a report on this subject, on the basis of which the matter has been dealt with in plenary. At the 1932 parliament, the Constitutional Committee proposed that Parliament should decide to give its consent to the prosecution of the representative. However, the position taken in the committee report did not gain the qualified majority required. In the latter two cases, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for its part, proposed that Parliament should decide not to accept requests for prosecution. Thus, during the period of independence, Parliament has never accepted a request to prosecute a representative for his opinions in Parliament. In 1932, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took the view that it was not up to Parliament to examine the question of guilt, that is, the question of whether the alleged act in the letter was to be attributed to a representative as a criminal offence, because it is a matter for the Court of Justice. The committee's assessment is whether the immunity provided for in the MP's Constitution can be broken in a criminal case of this kind. The committee does not judge the question of guilt, but the assessment cannot ignore the criminal and criminal procedural issues of the prosecution threshold. In addition, the relationship between the freedom of expression of a Member of Parliament and criminal liability will be assessed, particularly in the light of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The committee had two key issues to resolve. Does Article 30(2) of the Constitution protect a Member of the Parliament against a discretionary failure to prosecute? The statement of the Advocate General is based on the interpretation that Article 30(2) of the Constitution protects the MP not only from prosecution and possible subsequent conviction and punishment, but also from a prosecutor’s ruling in which the prosecutor finds that the MP is likely to have committed a crime as a result of the opinions he has expressed in the Parliament but renounces prosecution. According to this interpretation, Parliament's consent would be necessary not only for prosecution but also for discretionary non-criteria. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the decision taken by Parliament's plenary session only concerns whether or not to authorise the prosecution of a Member of Parliament. There is no support for the interpretation of the Constitution that a decision not to prosecute would also require the consent of a qualified majority in Parliament. The interpretation of the Constitution contrary to its specific wording would be exceptional and it is therefore justified that authorisation should only be required for prosecution. If a majority of at least five-sixths is not found in the parliamentary vote, the Prosecutor-General shall decide not to prosecute on the basis of the absence of the right to prosecute. The second question to be answered was whether the committee was proposing to authorise the prosecution. In its criminal assessment of the request for prosecution, the Prosecutor General assumes that Mr Mäenpää's speech might be a case of incitement to a group of people who should be assessed on the basis of the grounds for restricting freedom of expression referred to in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights. In other words, in the view of the Prosecutor General, this would not be the most serious form of hate speech that should be judged as an abuse of rights within the meaning of Article 17 of the ECHR. the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, The examination of the Venice Committee's recommendations and of the European Parliament's practice shows that the freedom of speech of the MP must be remarkably strong and that parliamentary freedom of expression is, in principle, at the heart of freedom of expression. Nevertheless, restrictions on parliamentary freedom of expression can also be seen and, in certain circumstances, parliamentary immunity can be withdrawn. It may also be important that it is possible to clarify the matter through the criminal proceedings conducted by an independent court. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the extent of political freedom of expression and notes that it is important to lay down strong criteria for intervention and that intervention should only take place in rare situations where there are acceptable grounds for intervention. On the other hand, speech or expression in this House may also be interfered with if it is a speech that meets the criteria for restricting freedom of expression defined by the European Court of Human Rights in its decision-making practice. The committee draws attention to the fact that the regulation of Article 30(2) of the Constitution which allows a Member of Parliament to be accused also means that his freedom of speech is not intended to be unlimited. The warrant referred to in Article 30(2) of the Constitution does not refer to a statement confirming the guilt of a Member of Parliament. The question of guilt, i.e. whether the act referred to in the request for authorisation to prosecute is to be attributed to a representative as a criminal offence, should not be examined in the context of the case concerning the authorisation of prosecution by the Parliament. This also excludes any question of reason-readability, i.e. wilfulness, from the assessment of the authorisation to prosecute. However, in the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is also possible to take account of the conditions for making a statement and other matters relating to the conduct of the proceedings if the committee were to conclude that it was obvious that it could not be a criminal offence. In this case, this is not the view of the committee. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has in practice drawn attention to, among other things, whether the statement by the representative appears to have been made of vandalism or intended to be an insult or a serious, factual criticism, and whether the allegations made are apparently unfounded and how serious a crime may be. Those considerations shall continue to be relevant to the assessment of the request for prosecution referred to in Article 30(2) of the Constitution, mutatis mutandis. Special importance may be given to the seriousness of the request for prosecution. In this respect, it is also important to assess the way in which the representative acts in relation to the broad right of speech and the way in which the representative expresses his political message. Excitement against a group of people may be regarded as a serious act in violation of the dignity and equality referred to in Article 1(2) and Article 6 of the Constitution. While political freedom of speech is particularly strong and the freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament must be considerable, restrictions can also be imposed on it, both on the basis of the European Court of Human Rights’ ruling practice and on the previous interpretation of the Constitutional Committee, which has emphasised that parliamentary immunity is not intended to be extended to protect criminal activities. In the view of the Constitutional Committee, the immunity and freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament guaranteed by the Constitution is not intended to use Parliament's parliamentary activities for violations of the dignity guaranteed by Article 1 of the Constitution and of equality guaranteed by Article 6. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that Parliament decide to give its consent to the prosecution of representative Mäenpää for the offence referred to in the request for authorisation to prosecute. This solution was not unanimous, but the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u3	At the beginning of this debate, I would like to remind all the representatives of a stable and dignified presence.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u4	Madam President! Freedom of expression is one of the fundamental democratic values and freedom of expression must be firmly defended. Freedom of expression always includes responsibility. Speech can also restrict the freedom of expression of others. Hatred speech, incitement to popular groups, and goals are used to intimidate people and try to silence them and limit the freedom of speech of others. By nature, racist and xenophobic crimes violate human rights and threaten the rule of law and the stability of democracy. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has previously stressed that incitement against the people does not enjoy the protection of the freedom of expression of the Constitution. Madam President! The Constitution's line on the immunity of a Member of Parliament is extremely important. However, that does not mean that Members of Parliament are above the law. The Member of Parliament must take responsibility for his speeches, including those he has spoken in the Chamber of Parliament. Political speech may enjoy the greatest possible protection of freedom of expression, particularly in the Chamber. However, the freedom of expression of a Member of Parliament is not absolute either. This is supported, inter alia, by the practice of the EIT and the interpretations of the Venice Committee. The fact that the Constitution allows the MP to be prosecuted also means that his freedom of speech is not intended to be unlimited. The purpose of parliamentary immunity is not, nor should it be, to protect hate speech. Madam President! The tripartite doctrine of power is a fundamental part of the governance of Western democracies. We are not taking a stand on the question of guilt itself. That is the task of an independent and independent court. The Prosecutor General considers that representative Mäenpää was guilty of a probable offence of incitement. Would it not then be right to give the court justice and the opportunity to investigate a possible crime? No constitutional expert recommended that the committee retain the immunity of Mr Mäenpää. Madam President! The Constitutional Committee has assessed the legal aspect of the waiver of immunity. The experts consulted have taken the same view as the majority of the committee. The fact that the judiciary is not given the opportunity to solve a potential crime is a purely political solution and a solution that seeks to protect the representative from any criminal liability. The Finns and Christians have expressed their opposition to granting permission to prosecute. This was also supported by two thirds of the members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. For political reasons, therefore, this group wants to protect hate speech and racism from a possible charge and conviction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u7	Madam President! The representative, Paavo Arhinmäki, gave a model example of a political speech in which the legal points were irrelevant, and of course this is also the speech that the representative in this Chamber has the right, and the Constitution of Power guarantees. You can then judge the fitness and substance of the speech according to how you feel it is good. As has been said, the Constitution guarantees freedom of expression and, in particular, it safeguards freedom of political speech. As the chairman of the committee said earlier, the speeches made in this Chamber are at the heart of freedom of expression. We have rightly believed that only in exceptional cases and in a very high majority in this House should we give the arraignment of what the MP has said in Parliament. It has been required by a qualified majority of five-sixths, and specifically in order to ensure that the policy is not taken through courts, but only in cases where such a case is particularly necessary or necessary, that immunity should be opened. But it is quite true that freedom of expression is not unlimited, nor is it in this Chamber. There are even constitutional provisions for this too. We are required to have sound and dignified behaviour, and this increased immunity has also been counterbalanced by a number of disciplinary procedures within Parliament to ensure that, if the representative fails to comply with this requirement of sound and dignified conduct, he can also be reproved internally. In assessing this case, the question is, to a large extent, whether the speech in question has been of the kind that it would be justified, for reasons of public or private interest, to go all the way to the courts and whether the internal disciplinary procedures of Parliament, which the Constitution allows and even requires, have worked in this case. Mr Mäenpää certainly did not believe that any member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has complied with this requirement of sound and dignified behaviour, but the Bureau as a whole has also addressed him on this matter and the President-in-Office of the Council has also criticised him here. Although neither the Constitutional Committee nor Parliament judge the question of guilt, it cannot, in its assessment, ignore the criminal and criminal procedural issues of the threshold, as the chairman of the committee said. The objection lodged by five members of the Constitutional Committee states that, in this case, it would be an act that, in view of the circumstances of the suspected offence, it would be of such a nature that the likely outcome of the immunity would be merely a penalty in the form of a decision not to prosecute or a court of law to condemn a minor fine, and this should be taken into account here. In the light of this and other arguments put forward in the objection, I would like to suggest that Parliament does not give its consent to a representative. To prosecute Mäenpää for the crime referred to in the request for authorisation to prosecute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u8	Madam President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a good job of considering this, and I believe that the position of the majority is well-founded from a legal point of view. Personally, I believe that all of us, including the Members of Parliament, should be subject to the same laws. We parliamentarians must be legally responsible for the kind of speech that the Prosecutor-General suspects is offensive to the dignity and equality guaranteed by the Constitution. When the Constitutional Committee, which interprets the Constitutional Treaty, is in favour of authorising the prosecution, as is the case with all the experts who were consulted in the committee, I think it is appropriate and justified to grant it. As parliamentarians, we cannot use our freedom of speech as much as we do, not at least in violation of the rights guaranteed by another person's constitution. Madam President! Excitement against the people must be seen as a serious act. It is a crime of widespread social importance and violates the dignity and equality guaranteed by the Constitution. The ruling practice of the European Court of Human Rights, which concerns hate speech, highlights precisely the seriousness and rejection of the act. The parliament should therefore, by granting a warrant to prosecute, show that a representative of Parliament cannot say anything. Madam President! I believe that the matter should be referred to an independent court and I see it as very important for everyone. I am disappointed that this issue here in Parliament became a political drama when I personally see that the ruling of the Court of Justice would have a bearing on the social issue of freedom of speech and expression. Where the boundaries of freedom of expression go cannot and must not be a political issue. It is a legal issue to a very large extent. The majority of the Assembly supports the position of the Constitutional Committee, the position of the majority, because we believe that the immunity and freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament are not intended to violate human dignity and equality and to protect criminal activity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u9	President! We're not here to evaluate the representative. The guilt of the hilltop is whether his possible guilt should be considered in this way, as is the guilt of other people in Finland. When no expert consulted by the Constitutional Committee is in favour of maintaining immunity, there should be very strong arguments if Parliament were to decide to do so. The prosecution institution is intended to protect the undisturbed administration of the office. It emerges from the history in which parliamentary activities, in particular their opposition, have been disrupted, including by means of legal instruments. In this case, there are no indications that this is the case during the proceedings. On the other hand, immunity could arise in a situation where some political opinion of a Member of Parliament would be such as to make it impossible to present it without at the same time breaking the law. Well, this is not about this either, quite the opposite. Mr Mäenpää himself has stressed that this is a spontaneous statement rather than a carefully considered and unambiguous statement. I am in favour of keeping a rather high threshold for the use of the rules that are impaled on freedom of expression. Freedom of expression is a serious matter and the aim should be to keep it as broad as possible. On the other hand, I am also in favour of keeping as high a threshold as possible for the use of the legal privilegies of parliamentarians. Specific provisions have been drawn up for the specific situations in which they were created and should not be used as special rights for political elites.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u10	Mr President! In this case, it is necessary to consider both the merits of Mr Mäenpää's speech and the constitution and the nature of the immunity of the MP. The Finnish Parliament has never given permission to prosecute a representative of Parliament for a speech in Parliament. So we are at the very centre of a historic decision, and I would like this to wake everyone up. Giving an unparalleled immunity would mean that a representative: The speech at the top of the hill was unparalleled, the worst thing that has been heard in this house for over a hundred years. Everyone can ask themselves whether this is the case. People in Peru have been accused of not respecting the law, the judiciary, experts or even the Constitutional Committee. These are very unusual criticisms. It is precisely the Constitution that gives exclusive decision-making power to Parliament's plenary and to the representatives of Parliament, not to the Prosecutor-General, not to the media, not to experts, not even to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but to the plenary. Representatives can't run behind anyone's back. Each of you will answer and decide on your own vote alone. Many say that the MP is not above the law and that Article 30 of the Constitution does not apply. It is not intended to protect criminal activities. These are also interesting claims. After all, the sole purpose of the immunity is to prevent prosecution when the prosecutor considers the crime to have been committed. In this respect, Article 30 of the Constitution it is intended to protect criminal activities, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u17	Mr President! The immunity provided for in the Constitution guarantees the freedom of expression and the critical social debate necessary in a democracy. However, the Members of Parliament are not above the law, and that is a good thing. It would be very elitist to send a message from Parliament that we would prevent criminal law from being implemented, that as parliamentarians we would not be subject to criminal liability. We are at the heart of the rule of law on this issue today. Instigating against the people is a violation of human rights and freedom of expression as a fundamental right at the heart of human rights. However, freedom of expression does not apply to speech that violates human dignity and equality. Mr President! We all have to take responsibility for what we say. Parliament has a special responsibility here. We often set steps towards what is more widely accepted in society and how far the limits of normality can be stretched. For the majority of MPs, responsibility for their own words does not seem to be a problem. Mr President! Words are deeds, especially political rhetoric, and words have consequences for people's everyday lives. For example, racist words, metaphors and self-intentionally de-contexted phrases justify unequal, discriminatory and racist treatment of people in everyday life. Often this happens by stripping certain groups of people first of all of their dignity, then dehumanizing them, and then the violence against them is seen as justified. We have gruesome examples of this history, but we do not even have to go into history when the same happens today in Europe and globally. That is also why today is so important. Mr President! Contrary to what many people here often claim, the freedom of speech situation in Finland is not a problem; the country is at the forefront of measurements in the implementation of freedom of expression. Instead, freedom of expression is currently threatened mainly by online criminal hate speech, harassment and harassment aimed at deterring those who defend human rights. Mr President! The criminalisation of hate speech is without prejudice to a vigorous political and social stance. The critical social debate is still very welcome. For the majority of the people, it is perfectly possible to have a debate on sensitive social issues with respect for human dignity without incitement to hate speech, while for certain groups it seems almost impossible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u18	Mr President! The Authority must not trample on human rights without any consequences, nor should the MP be allowed to violate Finnish laws freely. It is our job to make laws, not to put ourselves above them. Parliament's freedom of speech is very wide, but it does not cover hate crimes. It is the duty of the authorities to promote human rights, equality and the elimination of discrimination and oppression, not to foment discrimination or to trample the dignity of any human being. In this respect, both the European Convention on Human Rights and the Finnish Constitution are unusually clear. Therefore, Parliament should not stand in the way of a proper investigation of suspected hate crimes; that is all we are required to do here. As the chairman of the committee has well said, we do not decide or even judge the guilt, it is done by an impartial public prosecutor. And then there will be a worrying road if these solutions from the prosecution's office are somehow to be called into question on political grounds, especially as we are dealing with charges against the authority. There is no support from any constitutional experts for the protests of the people of Peru and two people in the Coalition Party. None of them in the committee's hearings were in favour of leaving Mäenpää's immunity in force. Nor is the objection supported by any previous decision of the European Court of Human Rights or the Finnish Constitutional Committee. The European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly ruled that greater freedom of speech for politicians does not cover incitement to incitement or any other violation of human rights. This is unusually clear. To Mr Rydman, this serious crime is not mitigated by the fact that in Finland this can be punished by a fine. This objection is therefore a distinctive political and clear contradiction to both the European Convention on Human Rights and the established line of the Finnish Constitutional Committee, since hate crimes are not covered by parliamentary immunity. This is clear. It is, of course, a good thing that, in the past, there has been no suspicion of incitement against the people. So we are in a unique situation, a very serious situation, where everyone should stop. The protection of such racist speeches is obviously so important for some that, in order to protect it, we are prepared to turn against experts, against long-term parliamentary traditions and against international agreements that are legally binding on Finland in a very violent way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u21	Madam President! Instigating against the people is a serious crime, and the Prosecutor General has requested permission from Parliament to prosecute a Member of Parliament. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs shows that there are strong grounds for prosecution, and the majority of constitutional experts are in favour of lifting immunity. We are in this Chamber to safeguard the interests of Finland and the future of the country for the next generations, in all situations with respect for human rights and equality. We are here in this Chamber to legislate, not to distribute judgments. That is the task of the judiciary. Madam President! In ancient times people survived in small groups and in their own clans. Since then, people have created national communities because they have faced challenges that individual tribes could not have survived on their own. Now our challenges are common to the entire planet, to all mankind. Nationalism and racism threaten our future together. We can only deal with global challenges together, with respect for each other and working together. There is no place in this world for racism or violence. Madam President! Nationalism and racism are trying to return right now, in the face of the greatest challenges in human history. Now, if ever it's time to open your eyes and see what's happening around us. We must recognize the dark hues of history and make sure that there is no foothold among us. Finland is committed to international human rights conventions. The UN was established after World War II and the UN General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in December 1948. Article 1 states: ‘All persons shall be born free and equal in value and rights. They have been given reason and conscience and must act toward one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” Cooperation and empathy save humanity and this planet. Freedom of expression is an important human right. It should be protected under all circumstances. Hate speech and racism are not included in the constitutional freedom of expression or in the right of the MP to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u22	Madam President! In the parliamentary debate there are often inappropriate situations, but the threshold for taking them to district halls should be kept very high. Mr Mäenpää's speech seems to have received a deeper interpretation than those who heard it at the hearing could understand. The President did not respond recently to the speech and it did not provoke debatation and disapproval among the Members of Parliament who were present in the Chamber. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] If the parliament does not end up issuing an arraignment in the case of Mr Mäenpää, that does not mean that in future the MP will be free to break the law in the speaker's toilet. It should be noted that, even in the view of the Prosecutor General, this is not the most serious form of hate speech. The question of guilt, that is to say, whether the act referred to in the request for authorisation to prosecute is to be attributed to a representative as a criminal offence, should not be examined in the context of the case concerning the authorisation of prosecution by the Parliament. So we are not here in the comrades' court, although unfortunately, for example, Mr Arhinmäki and some other representatives have already labeled what has happened as hate speech. [ Hulls on the right] and even accused the defenders of this immunity as protectors of hate speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u24	Mr President! In the case before us, it is a question of whether the immunity of a Member of Parliament provided for in the Constitution should be broken as a result of a speech by Mr Mäenpää at the Parliament. This is a legal issue, not a political one. It is very regrettable that an attempt has also been made to politicise justice in this debate. It is not, therefore, a question of whether the speech that has been said personally is to be condemned. My personal opinion is that the speech was inappropriate and reprehensible. This is a question of interpretation of the Constitution. As a lawyer and as a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I also take the issue under discussion in that way. As the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Ojala-Niemelä has pointed out, it was a question of weighing the matter on both sides. The wording of Article 30 of the Constitution is clear, and the immunity of the MP is very strong. As stated in the expert opinion to the committee, the purpose of the immunity provision is to safeguard the broad freedom of opinion and action of the MP, which is relevant not only for the role of an individual MP but also for the whole parliamentary system. The basic idea behind this provision is that it is only exceptionally possible for a Member of Parliament and, in the event of a very high qualified majority in Parliament, it is justified to prosecute for the opinions it has expressed in Parliament. During one parliamentary term, a change in the form of a Finnish state has been imposed by the author of the Constitution by the same very high five-sixths qualified majority requirement. The high qualified majority requirement has been the express choice of the author of the Constitution. In its previous practice, the committee has therefore considered that the qualified majority required for the authorisation of a charge shows that, from a criminal point of view, the conduct of a representative in Parliament needs to be criticised more broadly than similar activities outside the Parliament and that the procedure in question must be ‘very serious’ in legal terms, in order to enable the prosecution of a licence to be brought. As far as international obligations are concerned, the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also pointed out that, in the view of the Prosecutor-General, the issue would not be the most serious form of hate speech which should be assessed as an abuse of rights within the meaning of Article 17 of the ECHR. Mr Mäenpää's speech has also been reprehensible in constitutional law. It is also clear from the objection that the presence of Mr Mäenpää did not meet the requirement of a stable and dignified presence laid down in the Constitution. The representatives who have signed the committee's objection have given importance to the point raised by the expert that, in assessing whether the prosecution of the representative is justified by the opinions he has expressed in Parliament, it is given importance to how the primary control of the internal control of the Parliament has functioned. Parliament has been lacking in the representative of Mäenpää [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u25	Mr President! The case before us is historically exceptional and can be seen as a legal ambiguity. In the committee, the Group of the Finns Party came to the conclusion that the warrant should not be granted. The high qualified majority, or five-sixths of the votes required for the prosecution of a Member of Parliament, shows that the procedure of a Member of Parliament must be highly incriminating in legal terms in order to be able to issue a charge. From the point of view of the assessment of the case, it is important to know how serious the offence may be and what the penalty to be imposed on it would be. The milder the penalty, the less appropriate it is for the matter to be brought before a court of law. In the case of representative Mäenpää, estimates of punishment are a few daily fines if, therefore, he was found guilty of a crime at all in court. Mr President! In a representative democracy, it is important for citizens' views to be passed on to decision-making through their representatives as unforgivable as possible. It is up to the Members of Parliament to represent their constituents and speak on their behalf. It is a legal right of MPs, but also a moral duty. The intervention of representatives in the right to speak is always a serious risk to democracy. It is therefore important that, according to the Constitution, Parliament also has the power, if it wishes, to prevent representatives from being charged with their parliamentary activities. Traditionally, the freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament has been regarded as quite broad, and it can be said that the freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament provided for in the Constitution enjoys greater legal protection than usual. This is demonstrated by the high qualified majority required to prosecute the MP. The freedom of expression of a politician has been emphasised when it comes to political speech, because protecting the freedom of expression of a politician is at the same time protecting the realisation of pluralist democracy. Political speech should not be restricted without particularly heavy and compelling reasons. Mr President! On the basis of what I have just said, I support the objection contained in this report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u26	Irade the Talman! För det första vill jag tacka tallmannen för att ha påpekat att ledamot Mäenpää i det actuella fallet inte följt instruktionnerna i grundlagen, enligt viika en riksdagsledamot måste uppträda sakligt och värdigt. Anförandet som jämförde aylsökande med invasive arter som ska utrotas är inte värdigt denna sal. Det är inte lämpligt någonstans. Det är förkastligt och också farligt då det skapar en Bild där en del Människor berövas sina Mänskliga ragtigheter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u27	Madam President! The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that political speech may enjoy the greatest possible protection of freedom of expression. This right is also enshrined in our Constitution in the section on the freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament. However, the counterpart of freedom is always responsibility. This is also required by the Constitutional provision governing freedom of speech, which lays down a requirement for sound and dignified conduct and other persons for inviolable speech. It is up to the speaker to take responsibility for his words. Our society is already moving in a frightening direction as far as the culture of conversation is concerned. Political play mode is dominated by aggressors and words simplifications. In the speech, the world is divided between us and others, the upright and the wrong. The lack of vision and aggravation must not be fed. The world and the escalations of two blocs are a breeding ground for extremist movements. [Base Finns Group : Yes! ] Mr President! Parliament representatives must represent a respectful culture of debate. It does not require a consensus: one can respect and understand the other even if there is a complete difference of opinion. Comparing people or groups of people with alien species is not appropriate in any way for a respectful culture of conversation. The line must be clearly drawn to the limit of the permitted speech. Setting the line in Parliament is a message that there is concern about the state of the debate culture, with the highest decision-making body in society. I support the draft decision of the Constitutional Committee to give consent to the prosecution of Mr Mäenpää. We are here to take responsibility, and we really must take responsibility for our own words.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u28	Madam President! The article of the Constitution in order to safeguard the right of speech of a Member of Parliament is very important in the face of situations such as these, that is, that no authority can rise to such a tyrannical position that it can shut the mouth of a political opponent. In this way, in order to undermine the freedom of expression of the MP, it is a great shame for the Finnish Parliament. It is a disgrace to the Finnish judiciary, and it is also an extremely great personal disgrace to everyone who has given their voice to promoting it. Madam President! I consider it a special matter that the Parliamentary Constitutional Committee does not see the problem of the Government Party Minister being caught behind Parliament’s back for tumultification, but when a member of the opposition’s national parliament exercises his constitutional right to speak freely and unhindered and says the word ‘foreign’,it seems to me to be a terrible thing for the Union’s committee that even future representatives of the peoples of the European Parliament may be deprived of their constitutional right to respect their powers of law-making ministers and the judicial system of law which are being abused as a political sub-assembly. Madam President, such action is appalling and extremely shameful. Madam President! There has been much talk of human rights recently. We are also talking about human rights in this area. Freedom of expression is an important human right; without freedom of expression there is no freedom. Madam President! I support Mr Rydman's objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u29	Madam President! We in Parliament should certainly start with constitutional rights and, of course, we must at the same time see the dignity of the Members of Parliament's behaviour both here and outside the Chamber. In this context, however, it is necessary to highlight this Article 30 of Chapter 3 of the Constitution, which, for a particular reason, has created immunity for a Member of the European Parliament. It says here that ‘the representative of the European Parliament shall not be represented. A representative of Parliament shall not be prosecuted or deprived of his or her freedom as a result of the opinions he has expressed in Parliament or of the procedure he has followed in the proceedings, unless the Parliament has agreed to it by a decision which has been supported by at least five sixths of the votes cast.’ Yes, a Member of Parliament should appear in a firm and dignified manner, but one inappropriate, intended statement is not sufficient reason to remove immunity from a Member of Parliament. Now we have to remember that this is the only place in Finland's democracy, where freedom of speech is all there is to it. Freedom of speech and freedom of expression have been restricted to a great extent due to the comments made by various protestors. It is, of course, a different matter if you commit a crime and commit a serious crime, for example, to go up against a group of people and make speeches that are a direct threat to a group of people. But it has been stated here that this is not the case. Such conclusions have not been reached, and this has also been seen by the Prosecutor General. He went along with this but has not seen this as so extensive that could have such a conclusion directly drawn. And that's why they want to take this thing out of this hall. I would have liked the Members of Parliament to have more debate on this issue now, as we have done at the moment, if we are prepared to abolish this kind of protection, which the opposition has been granted, particularly in democracy. In the future, this may lead to an attempt to suppress the voice of the opposition on issues other than such statements. I'm not saying this myself, which is what the representative is saying. Mr Mäenpää has said, and I do not support it in any way, but I cannot accept that we should change this Parliament's policies permanently so that our immunity can be removed as a result of unsuccessful statements here. However, this is the only place where it is possible to do so, and the picture of its development could be the opposite of what it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u30	Madam President! Is this worth it? It can't really be. Representative On the cheek of a new Member of Parliament, the hillhead may throw an inappropriate throw, but the fact that we are going to start chewing on the throwing here, almost for a year, even today, as the only thing that is practically being done in this Chamber, is that one of the words “the alien species ” is really on the menus that we appreciated on the outside,that we had the luxury of being such a fool? The committee also stated that‘if there is a serious crime’. Is this?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u37	Mr President! I think Mr Laakso asked a good question: is this worth this? We have a corrosive background here, and we are really spending one day here, and in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs we have spent a great deal of time — I myself have been an alternate at some meetings — and certainly it would be far more important for the citizens than to weigh up this perhaps failed speech. I wasn't there myself, but if I'm thinking about what this time is, I'm pretty worried. There have been such speeches that, just as the prosecutor has now decided that he is likely to prosecute, we should now be allowed to admit, but I ask these people why there would then have been a constitutional threshold of five-sixths. It is a threshold similar to that found in procedural law, for example, where there are always different conditions for a process: the offence must not be outdated, the plaintiff must make a request for prosecution. If the plaintiff fails to prosecute in some crimes, the prosecutor cannot prosecute. It will then be said that the conditions for the process are missing, and that is one of the fundamental issues of the rule of law and procedural law, that if the condition of the process is not, it is missing, and that is what this is all about. I wonder when Mr Laakso said that this is worth this and where we are going to end up. This is a precedent. I remember last season when — on 9 November 2016 — Rinne, President of the SDP, spoke in the Chamber of three happy robbers and referred to the ministerial box. Well, everyone can wonder if it was a good or a bad valve, but with the same association that is now being considered, one might wonder that he did not just accuse them of a theft crime of whether the police should investigate. I'm sure no one thought anything at the time except that that was a little tasteless. But would it be the future now that, in future, if, for example, Mr Rinne or Mr Lindtman were to throw three happy bandits out of there, we would immediately be there in the Constitutional Committee to consider what you are now talking about, and nothing more than to think about to the Court of Justice? Let us not politicize this Chamber. Then there is the fact that a lot of people here are talking about it as if there was a crime here. They say that it is not being weighed here, and then, on the other hand, as the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs said, it is necessary to assess the threshold for prosecution. But now it is good to note that there is a presumption of innocence here all the time and that is until the end of the process. Unlike Professor Schein, for example, has already announced in January that there would be a third category — cause for doubt — that is totally contrary to the rule of law. I had a lively conversation with him on Twitter, and fortunately I also received support from Professor of Process Law Mikko Vuorenpää. This is what you can see when you appeal to experts, how experts are also politicised on certain issues. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u38	Madam President! This really should not be a question of whether the Finns of Finland are against the politics, goals, or representative Mäenpää, but about how to deal with the right of the MP to speak, to express his views, to challenge, to say frankly, to say foolishly, to oppose the policy of the government. It is a question of how we deal with the right of the people in this Chamber to speak, how we view the policy area, words, political rhetoric, logic of argument, political life, our role as parliamentarians, members of the supreme democratic body. As the protest of the People’s Party and Peruvians says, ‘the protection of freedom of expression may be protected by political speech,and as a special situation where restrictions on freedom of expression should in principle be dealt with in a In this context, there is a need to talk about the general atmosphere of debate in our society and, in particular, its present state. We live in very absurd times. The so-called liberals are reactionary opponents of freedom and freedom of expression, fearers, injured people, angry people. If they don't get horrified, they'll get hurt. If they do not demand resignation or apology, they will demand dismissal, punishment, warnings, shame. They say they have the right ideas and the right goals and we have the wrong ones. Nevertheless, they fear so much that they want to silence differences and determine right and acceptable words and thoughts. If you're so right, why do you need this theater? Is this how they build a good and beautiful world? There has been reference to history on the left, but I have read from there very different views on what such action will bring. No, the threat is not the wrong words defined by the lynching forces and the wrong lines of words that Mr Mäenpää was guilty of. The threat to freedom, democracy, opinions, argumentation, social development lies in the crowds who are hunting for wrongdoers, lurking on Twitter and social media, attacking until one escapes or begs for forgiveness or kneels. Word policemen and stalkers, moralists with arrogant and theatrical speeches, censors, they are a breath of totalitarianism.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u41	Madam President! I am saddened by Mr Arhinmäki and Mrs Suomela's argument that those who support the arguments for the objection are protecting hate speech or racism when we are protecting the immunity of the MP in relation to his parliamentary speech. Let it be clear to everyone in this Chamber that I do not regard the speech of Mr Mäenpää as proper or as consistent with the firm and dignified conduct of the MP. I am pleased that the internal disciplinary procedure in Parliament intervened in this matter and the representative was in the Bureau's interview. As we know, by decision of the Bureau, Parliament could also have arrested him for two weeks of parliamentary work, and I think that when it was a recent first-period MP a year ago, the Bureau ended up in this interview. [PaavoArhinmäki calls for an answer ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u44	Mr President! Parliament's representatives have a broad degree of independence and protection, which requires Parliament's discretion in the prosecution. That is the reflection we are now making on the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the expert opinions in our background work. The immunity of the representative is intended to protect the freedom of expression of political speech. Words, even very colorful, may be used, but we must not break the law. The trial has been conducted and the Prosecutor General has requested permission to appoint a representative. The hill's head is charged with provocation against the people's group. Inciting against the people is a serious crime against human rights and is of major importance to society. The question of guilt will be decided by the court. Parliament's discretion is that there is no undue attempt to restrict the freedom of action of a representative of Parliament and that the crimes should be dealt with in a proper manner by the court. The same law applies to all of us. As a counterweight to independence, we representatives have a great responsibility for all our words. We also have a great responsibility to ensure that the system, independence and immunity are not abused. Each representative therefore bears this responsibility in connection with this decision. Now, if this reflection is politicised, it will leave a shadow over the whole system. Does this require reflection on the changes to the majority required to abolish immunity, so that the judicial process can continue to apply to parliamentarians? There has been no need to ask the Parliament for a similar judgment on immunity since the 1970s, or several times before. It's a serious question. The state of racism in Finland is also serious. In 2018, a report from the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights was published to measure racist harassment — offensive gestures, comments and threats experienced by people who moved to the EU in 12 different Member States. African backgrounds living in Finland are the most experienced of comparative racist harassment. Question representative The top of the hill should be not political, but legal, about immunity and the limits of freedom of expression.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u45	Mr President! The case concerning the immunity of Mr Mäenpää is important in principle. I myself signed an objection in the Constitutional Committee, which provides the basis for this. The objection is legally coherent, coherent, logical. It is also sustainable from a democratic point of view. During Finland’s independence, the immunity of the MP has not been broken at all by speeches in plenary sessions. This despite the fact that each period has its own political sensitivity and a desire to influence the parliamentary work, this great hall outside of it by means of legal activism. You're not to be allowed to charge me with anything. Mr President! The actual report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has one particularly noteworthy point regarding the procedural review of the matter. When the case was brought, the Prosecutor General stated in the statement on the warrant that, even if the Parliament consented, this does not mean that he would prosecute Mr Mäenpää. So it was evidently the view of the prosecutor that he could, as it were, run the parliament and request the permission of the parliament to prosecute a representative before the actual prosecution was even completed. This was a strange interpretation of the law from the Prosecutor-General, since the wording of Article 30(2) of the Constitution expressly prohibits the prosecution of a representative of the Parliament unless the Parliament has agreed by qualified majority. Logic was therefore lame, but at least I am pleased that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs took a clear position on this point in the report and in practice corrected the weak judgement of the Prosecutor General in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u46	Mr President! Freedom of expression is the most important cornerstone of a democratic civilised state. Without freedom of expression there is no real democracy. Freedom of expression as a fundamental right applies to everyone. For parliamentarians, broad freedom of expression is essential in order to carry out their work. We must be able to speak, we must be able to criticise, we must also be able to use quotes and imagery. However, the representative of Parliament should appear firmly and with dignity, in other words, whatever or whatever the representative cannot speak. Children, bad choice of words, inappropriate things can happen. Is there any such a prime, such a perfect representative in this Chamber that this could not happen at some point? Representative Mäenpää criticised the Government Programme's policy on asylum policy. At the end of his speech, he made a quote from the Government Programme on the fight against alien species by means of legislation and increased funding. I'm sure it wasn't the most successful quote. It can be considered inappropriate, or who will judge it how. In any case, the President did not intervene, nor did the two ministers present, nor did the Members of Parliament intervene in their own speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u49	Madam President! The freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament protects a democratic society, which is why political speech enjoys the same greatest protection of freedom of expression. Nevertheless, restrictions can also be imposed on the freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament. Both the ruling practice of the European Court of Human Rights and the previous interpretation of the Constitutional Committee have underlined that parliamentary protection is not intended to protect criminal activities. On the other hand, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the immunity and freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament guaranteed by the Constitution cannot be used to violate the dignity and equality of those equally protected by the Constitution. For these reasons, among other things, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is in favour of authorising the prosecution. Madam President! It is also important from the point of view of the right to prosecute the offence in which the representative is suspected. The Constitutional Committee sees incitement against the people as a serious crime. At the same time, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stressed that incitement against the people does not enjoy the protection of freedom of expression or, for example, freedom of association and assembly. The crime title ‘provoking anti-population’ protects people from discrimination and racism. So it is certainly not a minor matter. Its seriousness is based on several international obligations binding on Finland. Inciting the people to them is not only a violation of the equality laid down in the Constitution, but also of the inviolability of human dignity. Madam President! By its decision, the Constitutional Committee does not take a stand as such on the guilt of Mäenpää. The committee will only assess whether the immunity of a Member of Parliament can be lifted in this case. Normally, the Constitutional Committee seeks unanimity in its opinions and reports. Unfortunately, there was no such thing this time. In the Constitutional Committee, experts have an exceptionally important role to play. It is their job to weigh the issues to be dealt with from all sides. The most important thing for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the outcome of the experts on this issue. The majority of the experts consulted by the committee asked for immunity to be lifted. So the majority of experts felt that immunity should be abolished. And also to clarify: none of the experts suggested that immunity should be maintained. That is why I very much disagree with the decision of the signatories. Madam President! Representative Halla-aho has accused the Constitutional Committee of politicisation. So such an accusation is made by the chairman of the Finns of Peru, who announced in advance that the party would prevent the MP’s immunity from being lifted. If anything is a politicisation of matters, then it is the fact that you give your opinion before the matter is dealt with. [Left: Just like this!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u50	Mr President! Recently, millions of people around the world have come up against racism and said that enough is enough. Here in Finland, too, it has been pointed out how racism is in the structures, it is in the works and it is in the words. That is why I find it very sad that we now have to ask ourselves whether the Prosecutor-General will be able to determine whether there has been any provocation against the people in this Chamber. Instigating a group of people is a serious crime. When we act against racism, we defend democracy, we defend equality between people and we defend the rule of law, that is, the very things that we in this Chamber should cherish and promote. Today we are dealing with very fundamental issues. Are we MPs above the law? In terms of democracy, the Constitution's policy on the immunity and freedom of speech of MPs is important. We should have the freedom to disagree with each other, and we should have an open debate. However, we must not have freedom from responsibility. A Member of Parliament must also take responsibility for what he says. The immunity clause is not provided for as protection of absolute immunity. A congressman has no freedom from hate speech. It is not up to Parliament to act as a court, but it is up to us to give the court the power to carry out this vital role for the rule of law itself. Mr President! Now, for the first time in the history of this house, the limit has been exceeded that the Prosecutor General has had to request permission to prosecute a Member of Parliament for his speech in the Chamber. Do you really think that we should prevent the judiciary from working freely? Do you really think that we parliamentarians should not be subject to the same laws and rules as any other Finn? I think that we represent a democracy here and not an elite separate from the people. We have heard in this Chamber today, in my opinion, the kind of elitism that at its worst threatens our democracy. Today, however, we are not dealing with what Mr Mäenpää has to say. We're not a court. We are dealing with whether we allow the judicial system to evaluate what a representative says in accordance with Finnish law. Finally, I would like to say that every debate can happen in such a way that it does not violate the dignity of another person. This will enable us to ensure that, while we have a heated political debate, we do not question the equality of people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u51	Madam President! We are here today on a serious matter. We are weighing on whether we should waive the immunity of a representative of parliament and bring a potential criminal representative into the criminal proceedings requested by the Prosecutor General. Instigating a group of people is a serious crime — a crime that attacks ethnic, racial or other groups of people. It is defined as a crime because racist hate speech threatens human dignity. It's a very serious crime. We don't give out sentences here in this courtroom. No one recommends maintaining immunity from prosecution when consulted by the Constitutional Committee. Having read this report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I cannot help but conclude that immunity must be abolished in this case. Mr President! We are a pioneer of democracy and equality in Finland in many countries of the world. Democracy, however, is not a matter of course. Nor is it ever ready; it seeks its form in the present world. In this time in which we are now living, we are once again faced with new challenges. Hate speech is becoming widespread and the undivided dignity of all is increasingly being questioned. Hate speech is already reflected in political activity. It seems that more and more politicians are tempted to draw support even by incitement to fear and hatred. In Parliament, too, the atmosphere of discussion has changed, as many experienced MPs say, and that is what we are witnessing in this situation. We are discussing racism more in society than ever before. Here in Parliament, we bear responsibility for the direction our society is taking: whether we allow racism to creep into political debate or whether we are opposed to this development. Mr President! Our role in this Chamber is to defend democracy. It is our job to defend human dignity. Freedom of political debate is a value which we all cherish in this Chamber and which we are prepared to defend if it is threatened. Freedom of expression is one of the cornerstones of democracy. We can criticise and criticise institutions and people, and we parliamentarians have even greater freedom to do so. Freedom of expression is guaranteed in the Constitution. It cannot be, however, that a Member of Parliament can say anything, that human dignity should be violated in the name of freedom of expression, as he wishes, or that international obligations should not apply in this Chamber. It is not common sense, nor is it the opinion of legal scholars. It is also the responsibility of the Member of Parliament to present the Constitutional Committee, which has consulted experts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u52	Mr President! Many Members have now said in this Chamber that there are no judgments here, and then in the previous or next sentence they have already handed out the judgments themselves. In reality, however, we are not here to hand out judgments, but we are fulfilling our constitutional obligation to deal with this issue. This immunity is as strong as the Constitution itself. Breaking it will require the same majority as the amendment of the Constitution in urgent order. That is why it is a very serious matter. Article 30 of the Constitution entitles the MP to freedom of speech and Article 31 of the Constitution; It shall be restricted, giving the Bureau the opportunity to intervene in the right of speech of a Member of Parliament. It is Parliament's own control mechanism for parliamentary immunity. On the basis of Article 31 of the Constitution, this mechanism could very well be used by the Bureau for, for example, these speeches by the government parties, which accuse the signatories of a well-founded objection of favouring hate speech. I personally support this objection. How, then, could this protection be dismantled, and what basis could that be? Its basis would at least have to be a clear crime, a clear crime of exploitation of this article, using that article in this Chamber, and rather the repetition of its act, namely that the Parliament's own means of conduct under Article 31 of the Constitution have not been able to intervene. Now nothing like this has happened. We are having a debate here about the fact that one representative slipped a bad joke. At the same time, the whole conversation is a bad joke in one way or another. How many representatives do you have in this Chamber who are unable to make a slip of their own? Do you understand which Pandora's box you're opening if the immunity in this case were to be lifted? Do you realise that each of your own speeches will then be watched extremely carefully? They will be investigated and will be dealt with well, with a very tight sieve of what you yourself say. What you're going to take from someone, you can't keep. [Iiris Suomela’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u53	Irade the Talman! Grundlagsutskottet anser att det är käl att kapa åtalsimmuniteten i fallet som berör sannfinländrannas ricksdagsledamot Juha Mäenpää. Svenska rixdagsgruppen stöder grundlagsutskottets slutsats. Det är inte värdigt för en riksdagsledamot, eller för någon let att Jämföra aylsökande med invasive arter. Sådant språkbruk hör inte hemma i samhället eller i riksdagens plenisal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u54	Madam President! As a member of the Constitutional Committee, I support the opinion of the Chairman and the committee that Parliament will give its consent to the prosecution of representative Juha Mäenpää at his parliament on 12 June 2019. Everyone's dignity is the starting point of the Constitution, and it must not be undermined in any way. The Members of Parliament must show the model in this Chamber, and this House should not allow a speech that would not be suitable for general debate on the basis of values. People cannot and should not be compared to alien species. In its report, the committee states that the suspected crime, the incitement to a group of people, can be regarded as a serious act that violates the dignity and equality protected by the Constitution. The seriousness of the act and the need for rejection of hate speech are highlighted by a number of international obligations and by the European Court of Human Rights' broad approach to hate speech. In its most serious forms, hate speech has also been seen as an attempt to undermine the fundamental values of a democratic society. Parliamentary immunity is not intended to be extended to cover criminal activities. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the immunity and freedom of speech of a Member of Parliament as enshrined in the Constitution is not intended to use Parliament's parliamentary activities for violations of human dignity and equality. Madam President! I will not comment on whether Mr Mäenpää has committed a crime. It's not my job to evaluate it. I think, however, that it would be justified, in accordance with the principles governing Parliament, the rule of law and other principles governing our activities, to allow an independent judiciary to assess whether the inappropriate speech in question is a crime of freedom of expression. I would like to draw attention to the fact that political debate must not move towards borders where human dignity is being violated and devalued.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u55	Madam President! It is intolerable that the Prosecutor General is going to undermine the immunity of a Member of Parliament for such a vague reason. After all, it was not the worst speech possible for the Constitutional Committee or, as I understand it, for the Prosecutor General himself. However, here we are dealing with this issue. I would like to thank Mr Mäenpää, who has been sitting here all this time listening to all the dirt that the Green Left has thrown from that side with its completed convictions, figuratively murderous eyes on his face: when he only gets that judgment. There's even been a hint of racism here. The representative, whoever is on the Green Left down there, hinted at racism and the fact that those in favour of the immunity of this representative Mäenpää were supporters of hate speech and supporters of racism. I am sure that this representative is quite certain that this will not pass. If he were certain that immunity would be released in this Chamber, I would believe that he would not be insinuating racism in this Chamber, because there is a court precedent for it. Mr President! If Parliament approves the bite of immunity, it will have far-reaching and social repercussions in two. That is perfectly clear. As a result, the opposition's criticism of the government's actions can be silenced if necessary. Well, it is not democracy, it is pure totalitarianism, and that is not what the people of this country have ordered when they vote for Parliament. Mr President! Mäenpää enjoys his mandate and constitutional right from the people to freedom of expression and immunity from prosecution, which the Prosecutor-General is now trying to destabilise just because someone thought that the election of a Member of Parliament was wrong, even though he has a fully constitutional right to pronounce them. Bringing such matters before Parliament is nothing more than theatre. It is as if there is nothing more important to deal with in this country at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u58	Mr President! The representative, Juha Mäenpää, responded to the speech I made a year ago, when I reacted to the speech so that because of the terminology used, I was unable to continue the debate. That's when it got quiet. Now it won't shut up. Now I'll get it. My answer starts with the determination of who we Finns are, which is the people of Finland, and, Mr President, I quoted Sakari Topelius's book of 1875: “In this country, we carry the blood of different nations. But it has been said that all who recognize this land as their fatherland and love it as such — all who obey the law of this land and work for this land — are one nation.” That's Sakari Topelius 150 years ago. We are talking here about Mr Mäenpää's spontaneous throw, the tongue talking on the cheek or a bad joke, which I am sure we will hear on the Ilmajoki market, but they are offensive words both on the Ilmajoki market and here in the Chamber, and the formulations you used offend another person and they are particularly offensive to other Finns. It is a matter of hate speech in its very essence. I appreciate both the expertise and the judgment of the Prosecutor General, and I believe that if he suspects that this may be a crime issue, it should be dealt with in an independent court and not as a result of a political process here in Parliament. This is respect for an independent court. When Mrs Halla-aho thanked you for your speech a year ago, I would like to ask the Finns how you define Finnishness as what Finnishness is. We speak different languages, we have different origins, we have the blood of different nations, but is it not enough that we live here and work together, we love this country as our fatherland and we obey the laws of this country — is it not Finnish? And then, if we talk about this, do not insult us other Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u59	Madam President! The right of Members of Parliament, like other people, to speak must be protected against attempts to silence people. Freedom of expression and criticism belong to a society in which we live and in which we want to continue to live. In this case, as has been pointed out, the criticism of the representative, at least an inappropriate expression, could have been expressed in another way, so that there is no doubt in this House that human dignity is being violated, would not have to be spent so much time and energy. I don't think it's a single squeezing. We have seen these numerous examples both here in the Chamber and in social media. They tell us about the value base on which some people make politics. An online hate speech must be addressed, the goal must be addressed. It is also the case, however, that the goal must not be turned around to silence criticism. Proper criticism should not be called a goal. Since the 1932 Parliament's position, the culture of speech has changed. There are many arenas where parliamentarians and institutions participate in the debate. It is still possible to try to silence parliamentarians or other actors in society. Having been a Member of Parliament for a year, I have been able to see in concrete terms how political it is to write legislation, and that is what it should be. Legislative power is based on democracy and values, on the objectives we want to promote as a nation. However, the interpretation of the law after its adoption will be done by the judiciary. After the laws are passed, we can't interfere with court decisions. In this case, it would be justified, as the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the experts consulted have said, that Parliament would allow the judiciary to make a legal assessment. That's just what we're being asked to do. Personally, I am concerned about the kind of laws that hate-talking politicians would like to impose when they enter power. In general, such groups want to silence freedom of expression and limit the operating conditions of the media. Democracy is fragile.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u60	Mr President! Mr Mäenpää's speech on the fight against alien species did not in any way represent the best of the speeches. On the contrary, the choice of words intended to be cleverly weak was clumsy and inappropriate. These excesses of a few words have now been brought before us. We are seeking permission to dismantle the immunity of a Member of Parliament in so far as the weight and legitimacy of the speeches can be clarified. Thus, Parliament will inevitably have to play the role of a kind of immunity judge. At this point we are faced with a difficult situation where, like gladiator displays, we should show our thumbs up or down. I find myself repulsed by this mission. Freedom of speech for parliamentarians is of considerable importance in a democratic society. In the name of representative democracy, we have been elected to carry out democracy, and that is a very important task. The representative's political speech may enjoy the greatest possible protection of freedom of expression. The restrictions on freedom of expression should be treated with great restraint. President! Although I do not understand in any way why the representative Mäenpää used the words he mentioned, and I also do not understand the scale of the investigation. The representative has faced, as it should be, the parliamentary disciplinary procedure. I believe that this method has been sufficient and, in this case, in proportion to the scale of the unsuccessful speech, the right one. President! I personally hope that in our speeches there will be sound and dignified conduct, respect for one another and understanding of human life, understanding of humanity. It was not in the speech of Mr. Mäenpää at the time. I also find myself repugnant of this fire. President! In the end, no matter what happens here, it will be the citizens, the voters. Finally, it is up to them to consider whether the speeches made on the basis of the broad right of speech of the Member of Parliament are such that they will be made in the subsequent periods here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u61	Madam President! In my opinion, hate speech is never used by accident, hate speech is never used by thoughtlessness, hate speech is always a reflection of human values, indifference or ignorance. But I think that hate speech and racism could be compared to one thing, and that is the fear of diversity. Racism is always racism, regardless of whether it focuses on the race, ethnicity, biological differences or on the diversity of physical or mental qualities of a person. Each is basically about the fact that another person is not equal, and that is why we are discussing what has happened here today. Sometimes it is difficult to explain what is happening in the world to children, and that is why I am speaking here today also as a mother. A congressman's right to speak does not justify hate speech. Racism does not even enjoy the protection of freedom of expression. In the case of Mr Mäenpää, five out of six experts consulted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — again, I would like to remind you — raised the question of the waiver of immunity. In Parliament, this case is serious. The parent’s instinct for inequality and acceptance of discrimination is now sounding loudly, for what we decide will serve as an example for our own children and young people. It is not up to Parliament to decide when and when a crime is involved, it is solely a matter for the Finnish judiciary. When Mr Peltokangas, who is no longer here, accused a few minutes ago that some of the representatives would be prepared to condemn Mr Mäenpää, I would say that this is precisely where it is required that Mäenpää's act be evaluated by the Finnish judiciary, not by the Parliament. Therefore, every single representative here will be responsible the day after tomorrow for teaching our children that Parliament can prevent the Finnish judiciary from carrying out its work, whether he teaches that diversity must be feared, and whether he teaches that another person is not equal. Human dignity is indivisible, regardless of human qualities, and that is our job to show, to everyone. Humanity is always, always equal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u62	Madam President! On the left side, we have heard how cooperation and empathy can be saved and that ‘every conversation can be held without insults’. However,in this autumn,Mr Arhinmäki made a speech: "There is no theme or theme that the Finns of Finland would not try totransmit into immigration,because there are no views Once again, your speech and actions are in complete contradiction.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u63	Mr President! Instigating against the people is a serious crime. It's worth saying a lot of times. Racism and hate speech are therefore not within the sphere of freedom of expression. The immunity of a Member of Parliament does not allow it to be permissible for a Member of Parliament to speak anything in this Chamber and in Parliament. Parliamentary immunity is not intended to be extended to cover criminal activities. A speech that violates our human rights obligations, human dignity and equality cannot gain political legitimacy. In its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs states that the seriousness of the act and the need to reject hate speech are highlighted by a number of international obligations and by the European Court of Human Rights' broad approach to hate speech. In its most serious forms, hate speech has also been seen as an attempt to undermine the fundamental values of a democratic society. Hate speech is one of the greatest threats to democracy both nationally and internationally. Instigating the people against this group is perhaps the most serious form of it, and that is why the crime is the subject of a general charge. UN Secretary-General António Guterres stated at the launch of the hate speech programme that hate speech itself is an attack on tolerance, inclusion and diversity, as well as on the fundamental principles of human rights, and in a joint statement UN experts compromise the threat of hate speech to democratic values, social stability and peace. Hate speech is aimed not at safeguarding freedom of expression, but rather at slowing down the freedom of expression of others, at the participation of others, and at dehumanizing other people. For example, international hate speech has also served as an engine for creating and mobilising the basis for human rights violations: this is what we see in the crisis in Burma, for example. This is not how we can close our eyes to hate speech or its devastating effects and consequences for our democracy. That's why it's so serious today. A congressman who misuses his freedom of speech to restrict or silence the freedoms of others is intended to shut other people out of our society. Hate speech and racism are also a threat to Finnish democracy, and democracy is perhaps the one that we in the Finnish Parliament should do all we can to defend.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u64	Mr President! There's got to be a rat in what a congressman says. It can't be that you can blab anything on the basis of the freedom of expression of the representative. As a former history teacher, I almost abhor the rhetoric used by Mr Mäenpää, because it has similarity with what was common in Germany in the 30s. According to the U.S. Attorney, a congressman Mäenpää has compared asylum seekers and Muslims to foreign plant species and has spoken about their fight against them. According to him, The statements made by Mäenpää can be understood as a positive attitude towards the eradication of the groups of people in question, which fulfils the characterisation laid down in the Penal Code. It is not up to Parliament to take a position on the guilt, but in some way Parliament will have to take a position on whether the parliamentary procedure before us has been such that it can at all be the subject of a case before the Court of Justice. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has carried out a legal assessment based on a proposal that the Prosecutor General may prosecute MP Mäenpää. We will vote on this on Friday, and the outcome is already known. The charge will never be brought because it would require a qualified majority of five-sixths in Parliament to be appointed. The number of representatives of the basic Finnish group alone is sufficient to reject the charge. I am saddened by the whole episode because it will not promote a smarter culture of discussion in Parliament, on the contrary I fear it will slip to new lower levels. Mr President! The best thing would be for adult people to have a hold in their own speeches, but, if necessary, they should also be able to tackle it by more drastic means. A congressman if anyone should show stability and dignity. A statement a year ago did not express it in any way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u65	Irade fru talman! Yttrandefriheten är en hörnsten i vårt democracy samhalle och som skyddas starkt i grundlagen. Den friheten är ändå inte helt obegränsad. Den får exempelvis inte användas för ärekränkning, hets mot folkgrupp eller att uppmana till våld. Riksdagsledamoter har därtill ett ytterligare skydd för yttrandefrihet, då vi gör uttalanden rai i riksdagens plenisal, som ger oss ledamöter åtalsimmunitet. Den finns för att ledamoter ska kunna uttrycka sig fritt och utan rädsla för påtryckning av en regeringsmajoritet eller av en frammmande marks intressen. Därför är skydet principiellt viktigt och skyddas i grundlagen. Men den åtalsimmuniteten har aldrig funnits för att beskydda sådant som en åklagare vill väcka åtal för, då det exempelvis går under brottsrubriken hets mot folkgrupp, och som således kränker en give paragraf i grundlagen, nämligen under pineskors läs värde. Därför ska inte Heller yttrandefriheten i riksdage reserve helt obegränsad, och av den anledningen kan också ricksdage kapa åtalsimmuniteten för en ledamot. Det kan riksdagen göra på rekommentation av grundlagsutskottet, med stöd av fem sjättedelars majoritet i riksdagen. Grundlagsutskottet har noga behandlat ärendet och hört sakkunniga. Vi har också diskuterat ärendet ingående under många öten då ärendet är ganska unikt. Utskottet föreslår att man äver ricksdagsledamot Juha Mäenpääs åtalsimmunitet. Riksåklagaren vill åtala Mäenpää för hets mot folkgrupp. Om ska ska bli fälld eller inte ska inte riksdage ta ställning till utan en Oberoende domstal. Men för att domstalen över huvud taget ska kunna ta ställning till saken måste ledamotens åtalsimmunitet kausas, och det är det som grundlagsutskottet nu tags ställning till då man föreslår att så görs. Det var för mig ett enkelt beslut att vaa med om att fatta, aven om vi inte blev enhälliga. För mig är det nämligen otankbart att en ricksdagsledamot ska särbehandlas för något som en anna finländare skulle bli åtalad för då åklagaren vill lyfta åtal för hets mot folkgrupp. Åtalsimmuniteten var aldrig tänkt att skydda mot åtal för hets mot folkgrupp i riksdagen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u66	Mr President! In many ways, there is now a serious and far-reaching decision to be taken. Good debuts and colorful language are the salt of this house. At the same time, here in Parliament there is a special requirement that conduct and discussion should be respectful and dignified to others. As the Constitution says, a Member of Parliament must appear firmly and with dignity and without offending another person. Freedom of expression is central to the rule of law and, in particular, the freedom of expression of the MP in parliamentary work is important and it is important that the freedom of speech of the MPs is protected. However, that does not mean that freedom of expression is unlimited. The provisions of the Criminal Code, including the ban on incitement to incitement against the people's groups, also apply to parliamentarians. Comparing immigrants to invasive alien species in the parliamentary debate is unambiguously unacceptable and dangerous. It violates the dignity guaranteed by the Constitution and human rights treaties and puts people against each other in a way that is not part of the nature of a tolerant and democratic Finland. Apart from the fact that the comparison of immigrants with alien species in this Chamber, to put it out loud, is very disrespectful and offensive, the consequences can be even worse. If such talk is allowed in this Chamber, it will set an example for the whole population of what kind of speech is acceptable. It must be remembered that we parliamentarians have not only rights but also a great responsibility for our words and actions. Mr President! The Prosecutor General has stated that representative Mäenpää is suspected of being guilty of incitement against the people. This is an extremely serious suspicion. Parliament is not a court of law. Here we do not judge guilt or hand out judgments. Instead, it is up to us to assess whether the suspected offence is of the nature and nature of the offence which should be submitted to the Court of Justice for assessment. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after consulting the country's best experts, has decided to propose that the immunity of Mäenpää should be abolished. We should give this assessment the weight it deserves. We cannot begin to divide justice, but we can also make it possible for justice to be done in the case of a Member of Parliament. Mr Halla-aho already announced before the debate on the Constitutional Committee that the Finnish Parliament Group would prevent Mr Mäenpää from being accused — that is, before any legal clarifications had been made and before the Constitutional Committee had even addressed the matter. At the same time, Mr Halla-aho has stated that immunity has been created in order not to transfer policy from Parliament to the Court of Justice. Mrs Halla-aho, the same should not be done here in Parliament. That's not our job. President! Words matter. Representative The words of Mäenpää offend not only human dignity but also Finnish values in general.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u67	Mr President! First of all, on a personal level, I consider Mr Mäenpää's foreign-species speech to be outrageous and reprehensible. I strongly condemn all such speeches and believe that Parliament must intervene in them with its own authority, and I believe that is what has happened. Representative Mr Mäenpää has been reprimanded by the Council of Presidents, although it was unfortunate that the speech was not immediately addressed by the President when it was presented in this Chamber. Mr President! Having said that, I am not going to vote in favour of breaking Mr Mäenpää's immunity. I would assess the situation differently if Mäenpää had, for example, called for mass destruction or rebellion against the legitimate government of the country, but this is not the case. This is a bad, reprehensible racist metaphor. However, this is another kind of hate speech, because I believe that there is a very strong basis for this type of immunity. We may have a wide range of governments in this country in the future that can criminalise a variety of issues under the normal legislative procedure. Let me take, for example, Hungary, where in March a law was passed that allowed up to five years of imprisonment for criticising the Hungarian government's interest rate measures. I therefore believe that if we were to break immunity in such a case of daily fines, we would be on a very escalating surface, which could at worst lead to the effects and consequences that no democracy-loving citizen would want.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u68	Mr President! Parliament is not a court. We will not take a position on whether or not the representative is a representative. Mäenpää is guilty of a crime, but we are making a legal assessment of the extent of the immunity of the MP. Representative The hillhead in this hall did not compare people to plants alone, but compared people to alien species for general rejection and destruction. We will take a position on the extent to which the MP is on the same line as other citizens when talking about other people. A Member of Parliament is not exactly on the same page. The freedom of speech of the representative is exceptionally wide in this Chamber, but not absolute, but not unlimited. Freedom of expression is a particularly high value, but even more so is the right of everyone to life and integrity guaranteed by the Constitution, and the ban on incitement against peoples. In previous cases, when the Constitutional Committee has dealt with similar cases, there has been no ban on incitement against the people in Finland. It is based on human rights agreements, and on that basis, for example, the reference to Hungary which Mr Kärnä has just raised here is not in any way relevant. In the state of justice, we first investigate and then make decisions. That is why I consider Mr Halla-aho and the Finns of Peru to be the decision whether or not to give a warrant for prosecution, strange and contrary to the rule of law. Now, in the form of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have heard experts who are very unanimous in their view that a warrant for prosecution should be issued, and on the basis of this legal assessment, I believe that this should be done. The politicisation of the matter is that we are acting against expert judgements and, on political grounds, we are deciding that there is no reason to authorise the prosecution. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u69	Mr President! We MPs have been voted on to represent the Finnish people. We are the voice of the people in the Parliament. Now, however, this voice of the people is being silenced here, in the parliament of a democratic country. It is a dangerous path for a Member of Parliament to intervene in a very broad right of speech and freedom of expression. In the event of a representative: Mäenpää will be prosecuted for his speeches in Parliament, and any representative of Parliament may in future be subjected to equally arbitrary arguments for the teeth and prosecution of the Prosecutor General. According to the Finnish Constitution, the government in Finland belongs to a people represented by a parliament meeting for the Parliament. How can a parliament act in the interests of democracy if we are no longer allowed to speak freely here? The prosecution of Mr Mäenpää's speeches in the Chamber violates his parliamentary immunity to speak freely as a representative elected by the people in the Parliament. At the same time, the prosecution of a representative is a violation of democracy. Mr President! If the MP is no longer able to speak freely in Parliament, then the citizens will no longer dare to express their opinions because they are afraid of charges and, for example, of losing a job because of what is known as wrong opinion. That is why it is very important to remember that if Parliament gives the prosecutor the right to prosecute, citizens' freedom of expression will also be seriously threatened. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u70	Mr President! Particulate children, poor immigration, refugees from living standards — this is not about the words of a single representative,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u71	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u74	Mr President! It is up to Parliament to legislate on the laws that govern our society. Our government and our authorities are implementing our decisions, and independent — note. independent — our judicial system gives judgment according to what is provided for in the law. It is important to me that the tripartite doctrine of power be respected. The political speech of our parliamentarians enjoys the greatest possible protection of freedom of expression, as many have said here today. Our immunity under the Constitution is justified and necessary for the functioning of our democracy. I've never heard anyone question this in the courtroom today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u75	Mr President! I was in this Chamber when Mr Mäenpää said this statement — I remember laughing a little — and no one in this Chamber reacted to it in any way at the time. It was humor. That is why I am greatly surprised at the debate that has taken place in retrospect. It's out of proportion, it's over-interpreted everything Mr. Mäenpää said. The situation in the Chamber was peaceful: there were no mezzanines, and there were not very many representatives here. I am also puzzled by the actions of the Prosecutor General. The prosecutor does not make a plea, but asks the parliament whether he should or should not.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u78	Mr. Speaker! Today, racism is even seen in Eskimo ice cream sticks and Uncle Ben’s rice. Such sensitisation in view of racism everywhere and the continuing culture of injury is largely a political phenomenon created by the Green Left and which it seeks to exploit in order to reduce the debate. Efforts are being made to make a taboo on the criticism of immigration. It uses an Orwellian euphemism and promotes a two-faced moral pose. The supporters of the Finnish nation state are being labeled as burdens. It can be said that, up to now, immigration could be discussed without being guilty of inciting the people in question, but it is becoming increasingly difficult to move the goalposts. We're on the incline and we're headed in the wrong direction, so the game's gonna blow over. We don't have freedom of speech if we give it away. Insulting language in itself is undesirable, but it should not be illegal. Instigated against the people was certainly originally intended to be a strict ban, but it has since been brought into an arbitrary section of the case-law which condemns any speech that is considered racist at any given time. No one knows any more what kind of activity fills the sign of incitement and what does not. This is shown in the case of Mäenpää at hand, where the Prosecutor General brings a historical request for a warrant of prosecution to the parliament for a joke-like throw by a MP. I'm not saying it was a good joke, but even those who get hurt by bad jokes are either true or too politicised. I'm sure it's both of them this time. This radicalisation should be avoided. The head of the hill may not be a comedian by trade, nor does he seem to be a comedian, but you can't make a comedian's right to self-determination. The more gruesome sense of humor at the top of the hill is heard in homes than every night on television, perhaps in South Park cartoons. [of the group of Finns: Let's deny it!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u79	Mr President! I am not in favour of abolishing immunity in this case of Mr Mäenpää; I am in favour of protesting against the Finns and the Coalition Party. The key is freedom of expression, which we are discussing. Is there a representative? Mr Mäenpää, who appeared in that speech, in accordance with the authoritative behaviour expected of the Member of Parliament? The answer is no. But when you look at his famous speech, the spontaneously cast word for alien species, the quote, the President, among other things, did not comment at all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u83	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u84	Mr President! Although we parliamentarians have a broad freedom of speech and expression in this Chamber, I think it is important that parliamentarians play their role with respect for human dignity and equality. If the Prosecutor-General suspects that they have been insulted by his speech, and when the Constitutional Committee is in favour of authorising the prosecution, I consider that the granting is justified in order for the Court to have an impartial assessment of the case. The ruling of the court would be important in seeking legal borders for a matter of social importance as regards the freedom of speech and expression of a Member of Parliament. I believe that such an objective assessment would be in the interest of all parties involved.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u85	Mr President! There has been a wide-ranging debate in this Chamber on the authorisation of prosecution, and I have already said in my first speech that there is no political reason for us to proceed with the evaluation of the prosecution or the judiciary. I hope that we will stick to this, because the tripartite division of power and the independence of the judiciary is one of the fundamental preconditions for democracy: politics must be kept separate from the judiciary. We need to focus here on our role, which is now the consideration of issuing an indictment. On this issue, as I said, the European Court of Human Rights has a very clear line: hate speech and related crimes do not enjoy the protection of parliamentary immunity. Finland is committed to the European Convention on Human Rights, which cannot be ignored in this matter. If we wanted to break away from human rights agreements, then we could probably make decisions that are independent of human rights, but now that we are committed to them, that is what defines and binds us. I very much hope that we will all stick to this as well. When we really look at those decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, that line is unusually clear. No resolution by the European Court of Human Rights was found in support of this objection, in which such suspicions of hate crimes were somehow considered acceptable to politicians. Also, how this suspicion of incitement against the people is classified is a matter for which Parliament does not decide. This is precisely a crime of human dignity, a serious crime. It is quite clearly a crime that falls within the category defined by this European Convention on Human Rights, which does not enjoy the protection of freedom of expression or freedom of assembly. This has also been repeatedly stated by the Finnish Constitutional Committee, and it has been condemned in Finland to ban organisations involved in racist activities, among other things. This is what we are doing in Europe because of the heavy history of our continent. Unfortunately, we have seen what it can lead to if people are allowed to be turned on and stimulated from places of power. It has not, of course, led to the conclusion that they are in line with the basic principles of human rights or democracy, and that is why this is a serious suspicion of crime, which should be allowed to be investigated by an independent judiciary. There is no proper reason to think that Finland should not stick to its human rights obligations here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u86	Mr President! I am surprised that many times during this debate it has been argued that this speech by Mr Mäenpää is a crime, although Parliament should certainly not examine this question of guilt. We do not have a mandate for that, which means that we do not decide here whether or not the offence referred to in this request for a warrant is a crime. According to the Constitution, the MP has the right to speak freely in Parliament about all the issues under discussion, and this right has traditionally been considered to be quite broad. There is a restriction on freedom of speech on the part of Members of the European Parliament, which states that a Member of the European Parliament must appear firmly and with dignity and without offending another person, and here, too, we have a procedure in this House, which means that the President can intervene, the President can interrupt the speech, and we can have an interview. Well, in the case of Mr Mäenpää, such an interview was held, but then it would even be possible to hold a representative for two weeks from the parliamentary sittings if this offence were considered so serious within the parliament. This Parliament's strongest disciplinary procedure was not used in the case of Mäenpää, and I also find it strange that this matter should still be handed over to the district hall. Freedom of expression is a fundamental political right and enjoys the strongest protection, particularly in the area of political freedom. It has been repeated here on several occasions how the European Court of Human Rights has also held that political speech must not be restricted without compelling reasons, that is to say, the threshold is set high, even though hate speech is indeed excluded from freedom of expression. But then it must be borne in mind that this concept of ‘hate speech’ has not been defined in national law nor,in fact,in the Convention on Human Rights,i.e. defined precisely what it means. The concept of hate speech cannot be based solely on that,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u87	Mr President! I will pick up where I left off in my previous speech. — These yachts are not equally targeted. We have special protected groups, we have neutral groups, and then we have a landfill class for everyone else. This is, of course, particularly evident in the civil and social debate, in the social media, the most flagrant, but also elsewhere. Neither the Finnish people nor the mainstream religion of our country Christianity have received the same legal protection as certain minority religions and nationalities or countries of origin in the case-law. A 15 - year - old article in which the concept of marriage is justified by the Bible has been prosecuted by the Prosecutor General. Similarly, convictions have been handed down, for example, that a person has said things about the perpetrators of terrorist attacks in Europe. This is not the case with other religions. In the social debate, it is perfectly acceptable to insult and slander the male gender, its false and false stereotypes. The same does not apply to a woman in special protection. A young woman in particular has already been gloated in our society, even though sex was supposed to mean nothing. The same applies to Finnish and certain immigrant groups, white and black in colour, although this was not supposed to mean anything either. Yesterday there was a video in social media that was filmed in the centre of Helsinki and where a very drunk black woman gives a rather ugly talk about white people. Well, people are talking crazy things when they're drunk, and it's nothing, I think, the more amazing it is, but I was wondering what would have happened if the screamer on the video had been a white Finnish man and he would have spoken this anger, contempt and understyle language in relation to black people. I think that a demonstration or a march would already be planned in the social media and here on the left, in the name of oppression, racism, violence and so on. I also think that man would end up in court. I personally am not in favour of this in either case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u90	Mr President! At all times and in all places people have tended to believe that in their time the world is coming to completion and that the great truths of their day will remain final truths. History has been merciless to these truths. It will be equally merciless for today's racism and hate hysteria, where when a horde of nothing is chasing the torches and pitchforks in the hand of the heretics, and the Inquisition condemns them to the stake. This is not enlightenment or progress, but the dark Middle Ages. [Veronika Honkasalo’s interlude] The majority of normal people feel that the lynching atmosphere continues to be distressing. The problem is not fanatics and lunatics, who are a minority. The problem is the majority who, either for fear or for comfort, dances according to fanatical whistles.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u91	Mr. Speaker! This debate has in many respects been an actual quibbling and twisting and an injury process. It has been interesting to hear that the representative The head of the hill would not have been guilty of such an act, which would give the prosecutor the right to take it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u92	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u93	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u97	Mr President! It is indeed written in the Constitution that a Member of Parliament should appear firmly and with dignity and without offending another person. I wonder how many times by the years this Chamber has failed more or less. In any case, there are ways in which Parliament can intervene. The President may point out that he refuses to speak, may repeatedly give a warning to those who violate the rules, and may also arrest him for two weeks from the parliamentary sittings, as has been the case. Just as Mr Juuso mentioned earlier, on that summer night, no one intervened in that failed comment, but the situation was quite calm. [ Hustles from the left]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u99	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u101	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee's legal assessment and decision are well founded and easy to support, and the judiciary must then assess the matter. I believe that Mr Mäenpää's language and the changed culture of discussion in this Chamber must also be extremely concerned about Parliament's authority and appreciation. We parliamentarians are concerned, as has been said many times, with the Constitutional Act, according to which our presence must be dignified and stable. Each of us should assess whether this has happened in the case in question. This Chamber includes a genuine and even colorful political debate between the government and the opposition. Furthermore, I believe that we parliamentarians have a particularly wide-ranging freedom of expression in this House, but under the guise of it you cannot allow just any kind of speech. In this case, the limit on the admissibility of a representative's speech will also be assessed. As far as Mäenpää is concerned, the Prosecutor General has intervened, and several experts heard by the Constitutional Committee support the position of the Prosecutor. It is quite clear that neither our representatives nor any representative should violate our fundamental values, the inviolable and undivided dignity. Mr President! Whatever the outcome on Friday, I hope that this debate will prompt us, each representative, to reflect on our own behaviour in this Chamber and in the work of the representative. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs' legal assessment and opinion also confirms the principle that the MP does not have absolute immunity. I support the motion of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u102	Ärade talman, Mr President! I think it has become clear in the debate that we have a very different idea as to whether this law, the incitement against the peoples, is the right law or not, and it is quite clear that it also affects this decision, which is here today in the debate. I understand that Mr Mäenpää's party colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group have actually tried to speak as if this was a question of restricting freedom of expression and criticising government policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u103	Irade the Talman! The impression has been given here that freedom of opinion or political speech would be restricted. Yes, we have broad freedom of political speech. We can talk about economy, education, internal policy, foreign policy, culture [Right : What about immigration? ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u105	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u106	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u107	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u108	Mr President! In this debate, when I have followed it today, there have been two somewhat surprising aspects. The second aspect has been that we, however, have a rather clear doctrine of the division of power in Montesquieu. We have legal jurisdiction separately, and we have legislative and executive power separately. Now, in this debate in this Chamber, relations between political power, if that is what can be said, between legislative power and the judiciary have been confused. I am wondering, among other things, what Mr Tanus has said, and there are other speeches here that have even been made by the Prosecutor-General, in which his independence, the independence of the Prosecutor-General, has been called into question, even at the level of the names of persons, and we are discussing whether he is competent, whether his judgment is sufficient, and these other lawyers in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs have also been underestimated. It has gone even further here, and the courts have already started to think. This is the first striking feature of the fact that this political debate extends to that area, which is a genuinely understood independent judiciary to date. Another feature is this concept of the “free line. ” In my view, in this Chamber, when I have listened to this debate, no Member of Parliament has spoken in favour of holding political freedom of expression. It has been emphasised throughout all the speeches. But it has also been stressed that the ‘free word’ cannot mean that you’re winning with racist expressions, hate speech and targets by narrowing the possibilities for others to express their freemindedness and this process. In his own speech,the first speech,Mr Mäenpää’s speech on the ‘maritimes’ — he made clear his use of this term,also in this last speech,that racism and hatred were born. When he says that we are talking about witch-hunts, inquisition systems, as it were in our era, I think about this, think about it and think about it against the background that if we take the term freedom of speech to narrow the freedom of expression of others, it is a bit like democracy being spread with weapons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u109	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u112	Mr President! Dear enemies of democracy there on the left side, I would never have imagined that such a day will come true in Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u115	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u116	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u118	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u119	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u120	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u124	Mr President! When Mr Adlercreutz, in his speech, raised the issue of whether a representative of the Republic of Finland or of a representative may have come across racism, I can say to all of you with a fine and clean conscience that I am, and if anyone wants to discuss it with me, then I am ready to discuss it right away, but not here. Personally, I'm ready to talk. With anyone. But Mr. Mäenpää has been subjected to a direct hunt for a year, which has caused him to become overly abusive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u127	Mr President! This is not a precedent. This is a person who used the same term, which is used, for example, in the fight against weeds and their destruction. At this point, the Prosecutor General has seen that the matter must be tried to the end and given the opportunity. In my own speech, I appealed to colleagues from the point of view that I myself am tired of being the person who has received feedback throughout the journey, which is entirely in line with the words that have been used in this Chamber. I do not deserve it; no one else deserves it, and this hall should be the hall that unites Finns. Finns are those who are prepared to commit to these common laws and regulations, working, paying taxes. And if they can't do this, society will help them on the road to a good life. I also took a position on this from the point of view that I hoped that in the future it would not be allowed in this Chamber, now that I, people like me, were reminded and the word 'beard child' was used in the last week of President Halla's work. My genetic heritage was a little wrong back then. It felt really bad. As a father with a daughter, I fear that one day in this Chamber women will be called even more forcefully. Rape fantasies may also come from this hall. What do you do then? Where do we draw the line, Mr President? Then what is allowed, what is not? Now it is right to listen to the Prosecutor General and to give the right to consider this matter to the end. It is democratic, it makes sense and it is justice, independent justice, without interference. That is what I support and therefore intend to vote in favour of the abolition of immunity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u128	Mr President! I think there are two things in common in this Chamber. First of all, the need for Finnish law to protect against incitement to the people, at constitutional level, to protect human dignity and equality from an act that violates them, even when that act is spoken of. There is probably another matter on which there is agreement, and that is that we all know more or less what the European democracies have in mind in the constitution of a number of countries as regards the requirement that the prosecution of a representative of parliament be limited on the basis of the speech he has made. It has to do with the fact that the majority in this Chamber cannot possibly begin to organise, using other power bodies, as if to marginalise a minority when it comes to the social system and its direction. There are examples of history, as we all know, for the past 100 years. But when it comes to getting turned on against a group of people and getting caught up in a person’s equality, this section to protect it has never been thought of in Finland or in other Western democracies. Of course, border crossing is sometimes a line drawn in water, and that is why the Constitution has also anticipated this so that, on the basis of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have the possibility of derogating from immunity by the decision of this Chamber. I very much hope that this Chamber will also be able to draw this line. Of course, that depends on the vote this week, because it is also linked to the legitimacy that this immunity of a Member of Parliament will normally see in the future among the families of the European peoples. This has been the subject of debate yesterday in the parliamentary assembly of the Assembly, and we have said that the line taken by the Assembly is to support the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to support the protection of the dignity, equality and dignity guaranteed by the Constitution. This was the line of the overwhelming majority and the will to state it as the line of the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party. Given the legal nature of the case, we do not consider it appropriate in itself to impose a binding group decision on voting behaviour, but rather to act on the basis of a discussion within the group. Personally, too, I think it is important for this debate to take place. The fact that I was somewhat surprised by Mr Tavio's comments on this point is that he refers to the Eskimos or to the fact that we cannot have an immigration debate. It must be possible to have that debate in a different way than by comparing people with other people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u129	Mr President! In recent years, Finnish society has undergone drastic changes. The opposition between the various groups has accelerated. On social media, on Twitter, we have individuals and others who deliberately provoke this confrontation — have you noticed?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u134	Mr. Speaker! In this request by the Prosecutor General, the prosecutor himself did not know whether the wording used by Mäenpää fulfilled the people’s opposition label, but stated that a request for a warrant of prosecution would be made even if he were making a decision not to prosecute — in criminal law rather untenable. The D.A. reported that he could not make a decision not to prosecute without the consent of the Parliament. This is obviously a false interpretation of the law. In itself, making such an incorrect legal request is a valid legal basis for refusing a request for authorisation to prosecute. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also noticed this, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs then asked for clarification as such, and finally the Prosecutor General gave the opinion that, yes, he was going to press charges. Thus, the Prosecutor General changed his position even more harshly during the proceedings of the Constitutional Committee. This gives a rather interesting picture of the prosecution, you might say, a political tone. But the political image of the Prosecutor General has been given by the fact that, after being elected, he identified as his main concern the charges of freedom of expression and, after being elected, stated to Yle, among other things, that he wishes that ‘a certain political speech or political rhetoric would not be spread’. In other words, the Prosecutor General has suggested that his role is to constrain a certain type of political speech and rhetoric. [Eva Biaudet intermediate call]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u135	Mr President! Let us now be clear: Parliament is a parliament, Parliament regulates the laws and then the courts interpret and apply them. The fact that we are going to have a debate here about the activities of the Prosecutor-General in his profession, as if his activities were within our jurisdiction, is quite clearly a blurring of the tripartite division of power and endangering people's right to an independent trial. It is now up to us to decide whether or not the Prosecutor General will be granted the immunity he has requested. We do not decide whether the Prosecutor General is competent or not. We are not having a personal debate here about the Prosecutor General or his possible underlying ideas. That is simply not part of the rule of law, which has been based for centuries on the tripartite doctrine of power. It is the cornerstone of democracy that laws are regulated by a different body than the one that executes them and by the one who condemns people on the basis of them. If this is to be obscured, then we are really at the expense of the crumbling of the rule of law. Equally, if the Constitutional Committee were to go against any of the recommendations of any of the experts, it would also be a rather shady road, and that is why it is good that the committee acted here on the basis of the clear views of the experts. However, when the Constitution is interpreted, it is their expertise that has a great deal to do with this, so that we here, as it were, do not go alone to interpret these matters. In the end, of course, we will decide for ourselves, but that consultation of experts is important here. It is just as much the duty of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to monitor compliance with human rights treaties, and it is clear that incitement against the people does not enjoy the protection of freedom of expression or even parliamentary immunity. And when we talk about these acts, we are talking specifically about suspicions, that is clear, but precisely so that these matters can be investigated, we should give it the immunity. Finally, I would like to point out that the debate on social media in this Chamber has been compared with lynchings, persecutions and fires. In fact, it is the discriminatory speech that has led to lynchings, persecutions and fires against minorities. It is precisely these acts that have been tried to justify by depriving certain groups of people of their humanity, by comparing them with animals. In his day, lynching was the racist, cruel murder of a black man.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u136	Mr President! Apparently, the speech in this Chamber is accelerating as far as we can go. However, from the point of view of the process, I personally think that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is the one doing the legal analysis, i.e. consulting experts. They also have the opportunity to ask experts, unlike those of us who are not members of the Constitutional Committee here today. If a clear majority of the Constitutional Committee has come to the conclusion that, in this case, what Mr Mäenpää has said should not enjoy this immunity, then I myself will rest on this interpretation of the Constitutional Committee. It would be difficult to come to another conclusion in the background of the opportunity for me to look into this matter. Fortunately, we rarely have such cases, and even in this situation it would seem that this matter is not going to go to justice. However, it would be quite desirable in the sense that, during the new constitution, we have not yet had situations in which this freedom of expression of a Member of Parliament has come to be considered by the court, and we have no clear practice as to how far it goes and where it goes or what kind of crime it is possible to commit. Freedom of expression is, of course, an extremely important and cherishable issue, but it should be possible to use freedom of speech without breaking or even being close to breaking any of the laws we have laid down. Especially when we talk about groups of people, no matter what minorities they are, we must be discreet in our speeches in that sense, as well as polite, just like any person who lives here with us. In order to be quite brief about what has happened here, I am also absolutely in agreement that internal disciplinary procedures in this House should also intervene in such cases and should also take place in the event of violations of the limits of polite and dignified behaviour in this Chamber. That is quite often what the Presidents do. In this case, it did not happen, and I do not think that was a good thing. I hope that in the future the Presidents will be vigilant, and that is usually the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u137	Mr President! There have now been several speakers who have called for the absence of a representative in the Chamber a year ago. In any way, there could be nothing wrong with the speech that, since Mr Eerola did not say anything, it proves that there was nothing wrong with this. This argument is very strange to a Member of Parliament. It assumes, as it were, that only if there is an immediate absence of an inappropriate speech and an immediate statement of opinion is proof that the speech is inappropriate. Would anyone tell a youth about bullying at school that since you did not intervene immediately, bullying could not have been serious? In fact, hate speech is characterized by the fact that it paralyzes both the object and often the people around it, it slows down and it stirs up anxiety. Nor can it be thought that only a loud and public condemnation of inappropriate speech would be included. For my part, I can tell you that yes, a talk about alien species a year ago raised a wide-ranging debate in the scenes and that debate was not fully visible and publicised. Mr President! I think that this debate today has been characterised by the fact that those groups, which are often the subject of hate speech, as in this case asylum seekers, are rarely present themselves in the debate. That is why I found it very brave when Mr Al-Taee said in person what it was like to be called a racist name — precisely the kind of name that has also been used several times in this Chamber quite recently. Much to tell was that Mr Halla-aho shouted ‘self-pity’ at Mr Al-Tae. Mr President! In this Chamber, representatives of the Christian people, in particular, have spoken about how freedom of speech has taken a drastic step backwards and, in fact, nothing can be said anymore. This is simply not true in the light of international comparisons and statistics. Finland is top-notch in terms of freedom of expression, where we are at the forefront of world statistics. As I said in my first speech, the majority of the people seem to have no problem having a critical social debate in such a way that human dignity is respected and hate speech is avoided. I simply do not understand why it is so difficult to understand this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u138	Mr President! There is no basis for the immunity of Mr Mäenpää, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, after consulting the experts, has said. There are two disturbing misunderstandings in this debate. The Constitution guarantees us all certain fundamental rights. However, those fundamental rights are not absolute and may conflict with one another. In this case, it is necessary to assess how different rights are limited and coordinated. In this case, it is a question of weighing up freedom of expression on the one hand and the indivisibility of human dignity on the other. It is not political but legal, and that legal assessment must be submitted to the Court of Justice. In practice, the Court of Human Rights will determine what it means to provoke a group of people. It is based on human rights treaties binding on Finland, which also protect freedom of expression and prevent, among other things, the fears expressed in this Chamber that the freedoms of parliamentarians or citizens should be overly restricted. In fact, if we accept incitement against the people, we will limit the freedom of expression of others even more strongly. Another disturbing feature of this debate is that MPs feel entitled to attack personally, but especially against the Tripartite doctrine of power, against the Prosecutor General. We do not blame, we do not judge — we legislate, and their application does not belong in this house. The application shall be submitted to the Court of Justice for consideration. Mr President! Some people in this room want to pretend to be patriotic. Those same people boast their sentences, attack the law, justice and the authorities of the Republic of Finland. There's nothing patriotic about it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u140	Mr President! Today, in the Parliamentary session, a left-wing ‘inquisition’ has attacked the defence of the immunity of a Member of Parliament and the suspension of freedom of expression. Immigrants and standard of living surfers are a holy cow to this group. They are so sacred that part of the left-wing material sees associations with these people in every speech. At the Prosecutor General, this led to an unprecedented climax. The prosecutor has become famous for the fact that he feels that the police's preliminary investigation is wrong and that he has found an association in his own head to stimulate against the people. In the opinion of everyone, the talk about alien species was not right, but I would like to go and think about it and I would like to sit next to a legal scholar who would tell me which group of people was turned on. What exactly is it? [Eva Biaudet’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u143	Mr. Speaker! Representative The hillhead is a first-season MP, and 12. June 1, 2019 was the first real political issue in this Chamber in the new Parliament's deliberations, i.e. the Government Programme. Before that, there was no real chairplay, but the actual political issues had not been dealt with. In that debate, in the first actual matter, the representative of the first period used, in my view, an ill-advised figure of speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u144	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u149	Mr President! I asked for this intervention when there were some representatives who raised my name, inter alia, because I mentioned the Prosecutor General. Unfortunately, these representatives have already left, but I wanted to take the floor to say that neither I nor any other Christian Democrats have in any way called into question the tripartite doctrine of power and this division. At the same time, however, it must be said that the prosecution's actions have been astounded and alarmed by the fact that issues of freedom of expression, opinion and religion — at least as they have been the subject of freedom of expression, opinion and religion for decades — have recently become charges, charges of incitement against the people's groups or accusations of hatred from the Prosecutor General. Even in cases where the experienced police have carried out a careful investigation and have mapped the literature and so on and found that there has been no unlawful violation, however, we still have the highest prosecutor who wants to do otherwise. So not only is my mind surprised and concerned about this, but many others, including in Finland, are amazed at this. When there have been recent inquiries from citizens about the expression of their opinions, yes, many have said that they are wondering what to say and what to do with it. That's absolutely true. Mr Honkasalo mentioned that freedom of expression and expression of opinion would not have been reduced in Finland. This may be the case when we talk loudly about very liberal ideas and ideas, but then, if opinions are somewhat different from these mainstreams... I wonder, for example, how much debate we had over the last period on the fact that we want to respect the indivisible dignity of every human being and also to defend the right of the weakest, the smallest, to life or to respect the right to study and to respect life, whether it is the beginning or the end of life, and I wonder if, with the same degree of precision, the Prosecutor General would look at the speeches of last season's representatives in this Chamber, what we had to hear and endure when we also wanted to defend the right of the smallest and the weakest to life and also the rights of those women who have had to go through a wide range of difficulties and atrocities in life, there was quite a lot of comment. That in that sense the tripartite doctrine of power is... And at no time have I questioned you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u150	Mr President! Naturally, I support the objection made in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I am defending the freedom of speech and the right of all MPs to make political speeches here in the Chamber without going to the courtroom. Now I will try my best to justify why this rule in the five-sixth is so important and I will justify it to you, the Green Left, on an important subject. Let's take this theoretical transecutor. Let us imagine that there would be such a party in this country that is opposed to any kind of transplantation for minors, i.e. children, or any kind of surgery on the genitals or anything else. And it is thought that this party would also demand in its agenda that if someone exhorts or even encourages children, older than a doctor, anyone, that you should, now that you experience that way, go into surgery, it would be criminal, because this party would feel that it is absolutely wrong for the child who may not have figured out what he wants to do with life. Let's just pretend like this. And then this party would gain power, get a huge number of seats, get supporters, and then it would also be illegal to call on minors to go through such cuts. And then you Green Left representatives would like to make speeches here in the Chamber, where you would like to change this law, but now the law says that this kind of exhortation should not be discussed, so once again your speech should be taken to the courtroom for consideration, because the law is what it is. But even then, we Finns would defend
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u153	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u154	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u155	Mr President! Such a legal comment that, when there seems to be a desire, especially in the assembly, to withdraw from this controversial vote by the Constitutional Committee and to try to escape its responsibilities, this will not succeed, because the Constitution sets out an unambiguous decision-making power in this matter for the great Chamber of Parliament. There has been a touching talk here about the impartiality and independence of the judiciary. This is where trust is what it looks like, and now it really does not look good. There is no need for conspiracy theories to question the independence of the judiciary and the courts in this matter, but it is enough to look at some sources of public media. This prosecutor, whose competence I do not question, but whose ideology I question, has publicly boasted of how many politicians have been convicted of crimes against freedom of expression. He has actively stated his intention to achieve more and even tougher levels of these sentences. How does this sound? Detective Inspector Pekka Hätönen, who was nominated by the Greens, has been the investigator in the case of representative Mäenpää. The same green police have also studied the quotes of the Räsänen Bible and the hate speech of the representative al-Tae on Facebook. What does this look like? What would this look like if a political opponent in Hungary, in the ranks of the police, were to examine the speeches and writings of his political opponent in freedom of speech crimes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u156	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u157	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u158	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u159	Mr President! Mr Kankaanniemi appealed that the representative should: Mäenpää had only been a Member of Parliament for a few weeks and therefore did not really understand what he was talking about when he referred to it and had not understood the points of the Constitution in relation to these matters. Today, more than a year after that, the words “lifesurfers” were heard in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u160	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u161	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u162	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u163	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u164	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u165	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u166	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u167	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u168	Mr President! It has been said here that politics should not be done through courts. No, but justice must be passed through courts and not distributed here, and that is why it is precisely this dismantling of immunity that is justified in order for the judiciary to be able to carry out its criminal assessment. It is also true that the freedom of expression of a Member of Parliament is remarkably high, but it is not endless. We are also affected by the limits of freedom of expression, that is quite clear. There have also been many references to the tripartite doctrine of power, on which I fully agree. We make laws, we do not judge their compliance. Furthermore, it is perfectly normal case-law that these different rights should be coordinated, but this assessment is also made by the judiciary, not by us. There was talk here of this mandate given to us. Do you therefore believe that you have been given the confidence to do this work to relieve you of criminal liability? At least I don't think so. And speaking of responsibility, I myself think that this Chamber is more important than just the individual words of responsibility for what we have in connection with the social debate. If a Member of Parliament, from a privileged and visible role, uses racist speech, then, first of all, it has the opportunity to have a very high profile in the media and in society, and it must be understood that in politics words are deeds. They are acts that have an impact, and the political speeches of the MPs can shape human perceptions, which means that the MP can use their speech to strengthen very harmful social development. Hate speech has a very damaging impact on our society and can weigh down people’s rights and people’s security and opportunities for action. In practice, hate speech can undermine the equality of people that is the basis of our constitution. That is why it must be tackled in all situations. The Finns of Peru are trying to create a feeling that words do not matter or are somehow free of meanings, and they are not. The hate speech is clearly defined, [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: No, it's not!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u169	Mr. Speaker! The debate has been very interesting. In some way, the division in which the government parties act as prosecutors and opposition parties as defenders is shining through, and here is such a peculiar version of a trial.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u170	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u171	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u172	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u173	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u174	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u175	Mr President! I support the objection made in the Constitutional Committee that the Constitutional Committee is proposing that Parliament does not give its consent to a representative To prosecute Mäenpää for the crime referred to in the request for authorisation to prosecute. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I was there when the representative Mr Mäenpää gave his speech. It was a long night. In the meantime, I went to Orimattila at the house, and I came back to this sitting to continue the discussion, which was related to the government programme. There were not many of us here, but those who were here felt it was important to be here to speak. In my opinion, Mr Mäenpää's speech was calm and it was a good one, and of course there was a translation which he might not use again. Every one of us has to practice here and think about what comes out of his mouth, but there was something he wanted to say in the speech. Mr President! I myself am now a third-term MP, and perhaps I am known for being restrained and calm. It's not because my tongue isn't sharp, it's because sometimes it's scary what you're afraid to say around here, it doesn't happen that you're going to get caught in the crossfire. I have heard here, when I have made a good speech, that my speech caused stomach ache. Since last autumn, I have seen Mr Adlercreutz, the representative of the RKP, tear up our alternative budget in front of my eyes. It became a feeling that ‘workplaceworkfilling,minrevinsen,andput into pieces’.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u176	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u177	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u180	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u181	Mr President! As far as I am concerned, we are doing our job here while discussing this issue, and we are not wasting any time here, as it were. It is up to us to deal with this issue here, and that is what we are doing. I was thinking earlier about how difficult this Article 31 of the Constitution, ‘Freedom of speech and the appearance of a representative of the people’, is to be. This is the following:‘The nationalrepresentativeinonedus isfreeto talk about A Member of Parliament should appear firmly and with dignity and without prejudice to another person. In the event of a breach by a Member of Parliament, the President may point out the matter or prohibit the representative from continuing to speak.’ This is also the case: ‘The Commission may repeatedly warn or hold a member of Parliament who has broken the order for a maximum Obviously none of these things happened in this case, although it may be thought that perhaps this was not a matter of sound and dignified conduct. Of course, it can be questioned in many other ways. Maybe sometimes the parliamentary debate goes out of order. However, it is not often that speech goes beyond the threshold that the Prosecutor General should have the need to request the removal of this immunity, no matter what his opinion of the need for prosecution. This is the first time that we have a situation like this before us during the time that I myself have been a Member of Parliament, that is, during the last period and this period, and for the first time since the new Constitution, that is, after 2012. So it is very easy not to create a situation like this. When such a situation arises, at least I do not need to go behind anyone's back. I am simply using the documents and sources that I have the opportunity to use, that is, the report and the objection of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It may be necessary to state here how we use the objection here as a justification that it very much departs from the very same arguments as the actual report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. It simply considers that the threshold for the detection of the charge to be slightly higher than is currently the case in this case. However, I think it is quite clear that when, after careful consideration, the Constitutional Committee of Parliament has come to the conclusion that the threshold is exceeded, after which the Court of Justice — not this Chamber, as many have said here, but the Court of Justice — should weigh where the limits of the freedom of expression of a Member of the European Parliament go, I believe that this should be the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u182	Mr President! Everyone has undivided human dignity, which is probably obvious in this country, or at least should be. It really does not depend on the age of a person, not on the ability to function, not on the background, not on the color of the skin, not on religion, nor on the place to live. I mention this because the smallest of all those living there in the mother’s womb also have indivisible dignity and the right to life. But why am I raising this issue — in fact I asked for the floor for Mr Al-Tae's speech, because in Finland too, depending on where we come from, where we come from, not to mention when we come from all over the world, from different cultural backgrounds, from different growth environments, the same words can mean very different things to us. As a Savolainen from Eastern Finland itself, as a double savolainen, it is quite different when acquaintances come from Ostrobothnia, and the same word can mean something quite different. In this way I wanted to point out that when we evaluate the words of others as well as their hurtfulness and how we ourselves experience a sentence or a word, perhaps we should learn not only the discreet manners but also the empathy and the judgment and perhaps also the encouragement to go to the representative in this Chamber and ask what you really meant, what that word or sentence meant to you. It may be a big surprise to see that one was actually thinking of something quite different from the other. I understand that at that time, especially — and as a health professional — if we have had a very different environment for growth, or if we have tragic, unpleasant, hurtful, hurtful experiences, then words or phrases, especially in relation to such experiences, can happen differently deeply and we can experience them in a different way from those of someone else who has no experience of this and uses the word in an entirely different sense. In this Chamber too, today's long debate has come up — I am not talking about the words used by Mr Mäenpää — many other words in which someone has known their historical background, and one has used the same word in a very different sense, and many of us have not necessarily known or heard such a word. Although I now think that moderately now at least I know something, at least more came to me to look in the dictionary for what this really means. In fact, I already got some message there, some clarification that what this really means. So also in this human-to-human interaction and in the understanding of one another that one will meet one another halfway, I think that in this Chamber I am sure
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u183	Mr President! I have often heard how well-off people say that we should now meet halfway when something is said, the right advice is given. Mr President! In the words ‘foreign species’and ‘foreign defence’,there is nothing that anyone could understand at such an extraordinary time as it The word “lifesurfers”is not such as to allow one to understand otherwise. It repeats: it is intended to lower and downgrade. I find it totally unreasonable to ask those people who belong to minorities and who are in a subordinate position to come halfway and understand the attack and ugly language of this other person on the minority because he is ignorant. He's a congressman. He's not ignorant. He has a certain responsibility in this Chamber, not the one that is being repeated. This is wrong. This is a similar explanation to the fact that marriage could not be raped. Exactly the same logic and completely unacceptable. Mr President! There's been a lot of reference here to the Constitution. Let me read the first section here. ‘State rule. Finland is a sovereign republic. The Finnish Constitution is laid down in this Constitution. The Constitution safeguards the integrity of human dignity and the freedom and rights of the individual and promotes justice in society. Finland participates in international cooperation to safeguard peace and human rights and to develop society. Finland is a member of the European Union.’
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u184	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u185	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u186	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u188	Mr President! Unfortunately, very many times during this debate, attempts have been made to repeat such a narrative that MPs cannot have different rights vis-à-vis citizens, not so that they are free from criminal liability, but in exactly the same way they must be brought to justice. It is quite clear that in all other cases — whether it be drunken driving, it is violence or whatever — in the same way the Members of Parliament are being brought to justice, but now we are talking about the fact that there is this exception in the Constitution to the effect that, if a Member of Parliament does the work he has to do, there are political opinions, legislative proposals, parliamentary measures that can change the laws, then this is where it is protected, and in this context it is not possible to take these speeches to court, unless the five-sixth qualified majority breaks this immunity. That's where I asked the Green Left a question a while ago. I haven't received an answer from anyone. You have said many times that it cannot be that if the Prosecutor General goes on to charge, then here in Parliament we will prevent the judiciary from acting, and we should allow this case to go straight to court because the Prosecutor General has accused us. I asked the question: do you think that there are possible situations, that the Prosecutor General should prosecute and then that Parliament should decide at some point not to give it to the Prosecutor General? When you go in such rhetoric, does it in practice mean that if the Prosecutor General accuses you, then automatically put the Constitution in the trash and go straight to the judiciary, because we cannot have different rights as decision-makers to speak political speech than then the citizens? What is the point of such a provision if you use such arguments that only when the Prosecutor General is accused can we proceed? And I say, if the Prosecutor General is now given the right to go on the charge of political speeches — many of you have said that, well, this is so rare that only for very well-founded reasons such as this will happen — then I can promise you that if we are now flexible on such a small matter, then after that, you will start to rain pecks and prosecution requests from the Prosecutor General, because we have seen in the media that his aim is clearly to reduce freedom of expression, freedom of expression and what is politically allowed to speak in this country. He has said these things out loud in public. And remember that this also applies retrospectively to other parliamentarians, those who have been here before us. Do you know that those texts exist in the same way as the texts of Mr Päivi Räsänen, which began to be viewed 15 years ago? There, listen, there are going to be old MPs about to be prosecuted — to be dismantled. This is a terrible chain that's going to happen. Don't go and vote for the demolition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u189	Mr President! Indeed, about four or five years ago, when the current Prosecutor General was appointed Assistant Prosecutor of the Kingdom, he stated in an interview with the Lawyer News that he would do everything in his power to turn all the stones so that incitement and hate speech could be eradicated. It seems that all the stakes have now been put in it, and many financial crimes and so on may be secondary. However, this procedure must also be examined by Parliament as to whether this is really the right order of priorities — without disregarding any crime in itself. I do not approve of incitement or hate speech, but the demarcation should be much clearer than is currently the case. Mr President! When I have been in this Chamber for over 30 years, I have listened to thousands and thousands of speeches, and then, of course, there was no earlier paragraph of this article, an arousal, the law, but, in those times, especially from the extreme left, there were such texts that today they should be given very hard sentences. Compared to what we are now discussing, the difference has been enormous. At the time we had genuine communists who wanted a revolution and wanted to destroy a certain group of Finns, even completely or at least to put their dignity at risk. Fortunately, there is no such talk today in this Chamber or in the country any more, but if anyone were to study these talks, there would be much worse expressions than what has now been produced by such a huge revoc. [First Vice-PresidentAnttiRinne : RepresentativeThe Kankaanniemi, I hope that this issue will be addressed. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u190	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u191	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u192	Mr President! Mr Tynkkynen and Mr Kankaanniemi have already started a little with that form of immunity, and I will continue with that. In other words, in Finland, this parliamentary immunity of MPs applies precisely to what is said in the Chamber of Parliament and to what is done in parliamentary work. We do not have such greater immunity, as perhaps in some other countries, that parliamentarians or politicians face more general immunity from criminal law. In other words, we are talking here in particular about the work of Parliament and the things that have been said here. In this article of the Constitution and in some others, we are in the position of legislators to interpret the law. The President interprets Article 31, which is appropriate — the President has the power to interpret it under certain conditions — and then the Parliament interprets what is the case in which a representative of Parliament can be prosecuted for it. It is exclusively a matter of Parliament's powers of interpretation, and in this sense the tripartite doctrine of power in relation to this section would exactly work in the same way as in normal law. In this context, the debate has often confused the oatmeal and the wafers. We should now be able to interpret this objectively. In this debate, we have been discussing what conversation is appropriate, polite, beautiful, eloquent, discreet, considerate of others. It's all right, but now that we're not talking about it. Here we are discussing whether we are going to dismantle the immunity of the constitutional order in order to exercise the power of society over the individual. This is the subject of debate that we are discussing here at the moment, and it would be good for everyone to understand that. There have been such speeches here that ‘I’m more of a teacher and I’m more of a teacher and I’m more of a fan of your ear than I’m talking about’. This kind of speech is not worthy of this Chamber, and I would like these people who use these speeches to understand what they are talking about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u193	Mr. Speaker! In society, in Parliament, we need to have a debate on the issues of society in order to see what is worth doing. Argument is needed. In the course of this debate, there is a constant misunderstanding of one another and the accusation of the other, and instead there is a need for a debate to continue and then find the things on which there is agreement that can then be corrected. In my view, the key to this stable, secure society is precisely this debate, a more open democracy and wider freedom of expression. A more limited, controlled society, however, is more unstable. The wording of Mäenpää at hand did not in itself refer directly to asylum seekers, I do not know exactly what it referred to, it must be asked of Mäenpää himself, but in some way I have more concern about how to make immigration criticism taboo, and especially Islam's criticisms, difficult. And when the criticism of Islam is restricted, we are one step further away from the civilized West and one step closer to the Stone Age Islamic state. In practice, from people's point of view, this problem of restricting freedom of expression is that it may be very difficult for citizens involved in the debate on immigration to know when the inviolability of words exceeds the forbidden limit. This in itself can lead to self-censorship, i.e. to remain silent rather than risk being judged. This will lead to the end of the social debate, and that is why it must also be allowed to be offensive, possibly offensive, political debate. It's a hallway. All the discussions must be held so that all the arguments can be brought up. To allow the debate and to keep it going generally means that the use of common sense cannot be forgotten either. Mr. Speaker! There is no reason in Finland to fall into the blue eye of a Swedish social democracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u194	Mr President! This is where Mr Tynkkynen and Mr Mäkelä pointed out what I was thinking about, and I would remind everyone that this is not really a question of the general immunity of a Member of Parliament. If any crime is committed, the MP will be subjected to a preliminary investigation and prosecuted in exactly the same way as all other people. It is a question of what has been said in this Chamber and it has been sought to protect it so that different opinions, successful or unsuccessful ones can emerge. Here Mr Suomela said that there would be little support for this objection in the European Court of Human Rights. In my opinion, there is, for example, a European Court of Human Rights ruling in that report which states that incitement to violence indirectly or directly is a threshold beyond which, if we go, immunity from prosecution could then be abolished and no longer talk of freedom of expression. At least personally, in that description of action — whatever it is, it must be saying — I cannot find in these things that, directly or indirectly, would have been provoked to violence, and I do not even know who. As a lawyer myself, I suspect that this charge would, in any case, go to the wreckage, but of course I cannot be sure of that. I was very concerned, and I would like to return to this — I regret that Mr Al-Taee left here — that Mr Al-Taee said that it was not just one Member of Parliament who said that it was about his own experience and his own frustration. Now we have to make sure that we are involved in this process to provide a prerequisite for the process or to remove the requirement for the process, which is that it can or cannot be prosecuted, and we are part of the process. It is equivalent to the defendant’s immunity so that the prosecutor can take the matter forward. If, as with personal feelings, we want some sort of general example, then we are on a rather dangerous path. In other words, for example, Mr Al-Taee will vote according to the way he generally feels that he has been treated in life, and that is not the point — let us try to stay on the subject — but it is we who decide here what the representative will do. Mäenpää said in that situation, not what kind of debate society has in common. The hill has not been convicted of saying what al-Taee has been through, and, of course, in his case I would perhaps think deeply about what he himself has sometimes said. Maybe you shouldn't be so pious. Finally, I would like to say what Mr Kärnä has pointed out very well that criminal law is being regulated by a simple majority and that new types of crime can be introduced. We're on a precedent. Parliament has never granted an indictment before.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u195	Mr President! I am in favour of the majority of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this point, I will say it at the outset, but I asked for this to be taken on account of the fact that, as I am now sitting in this Chamber for 18 years — it is, of course, a short time in relation to what Mr Kankaanniemi has been, but still some — and I have sometimes also been allowed to sit in the chair where the Vice-President is currently sitting. Rinne is that I have also been in charge of this debate, and I would like to comment on this debate on asylum seekers. I have been making many laws that have tightened asylum policy. I have also been presenting them myself, and I believe that such a debate is certainly part of this Chamber. As far as this asylum policy is concerned, it is also clear that asylum seekers and those who receive asylum are, of course, subject to the same legislation in Finland as all other people, that it is quite obvious. Of course, the debate that has to do with the fact that if you fall into violation of the law or abuse of social security, there are questions of the same class as that of someone born in Finland, even a member of the general population. So I think that this type of thing is part of the political debate, but instead what I do not think is part of the whole group, and I think that is a big deal. I am quite sure that everyone here knows and knows these cases, knows asylum seekers and knows that that is why we have the whole asylum system, that they screen those who have the right to asylum and those who do not. That is why the whole system exists, and there are also those who have a legitimate asylum and who live according to Finnish law and work well here. That is why I do not think that the kind of debate where there is a risk that the whole group will be labeled is right, and that is what I wanted to say in this connection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u196	Here are the representatives of Niemi, Tynkkynen and A stone before the summary statement by the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u197	Mr President! I would like to address that root cause in this act, which is usually the reason for this act to be readable and punishable. It's essentially a matter of consciousness and will. Representative There may have been an awareness of the inviolability of the sentence at the top of the hill, but what about this part of the will? There must have been no intention of offending anyone at the top of the hill, and when the situation is such that one is missing — there is consciousness but not will — then this should be treated as an accident and certainly there is no punishable act. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u198	Mr President! This is the last time I am asking — there are still three Green Left representatives here, supported by the representative of the city centre. This is the third time I've asked this question. You have been speaking all the time in favour of the fact that we cannot have different rights in relation to the fact that we can make political speeches here without being brought to justice, compared with the citizens. So is there such a situation that, in your opinion, if the Prosecutor General wants to accuse a representative of a political speech that has been held in the Chamber, he should use this constitutional record? Or is it the case that, in your opinion, this constitutional entry can be put in the trash and this can become the kind of democracy that is much worse democracy that we have at the moment? This is therefore based on the fact that in other democracies in Europe, too, we are complying with this rule. Is it true that this is of no consequence, but every time the Prosecutor General — no matter how politicised — wants to accuse you, you let him go? Or is this even about what it's all about? [MaiWinter Screaming]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u199	Mr President! First of all, let us start with the question of this immunity and the Constitution. Yes, I also believe that political speech deserves the greatest possible freedom of expression, but even the immunity given to us in the Constitution is not absolute. That's why we have that vote on Friday. If it were absolute, it would also not be possible to dismantle it in the Constitution, that is to say, the Constitution also provides for the possibility of immunity being lifted, and we will abide by the Constitution when we do so. Well, then, from this other legal assessment, that is to say, the Constitution is at the heart of our legislation, and it comes from the inviolability of human dignity and it comes from the equality of people. That is why it is so important to defend it, while hate speech violates these fundamental values of our legislation as a whole. Well, it has been said here that we do not know what hate speech means, or it is nowhere defined.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u200	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u201	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u202	Mr President! All in all, this debate has been just as sad as I feared in advance. Much has been said and even more has been said here. Constitutional law has been politicised here, and political opinions have been presented as legal facts. There have been very strict interpretations here, even though the opening of immunity has been considered a legal issue. Reference has been made to the oral expert hearings of the committee, contrary to the explicit prohibition of the Committee Guide. I would like to correct a few of the clear mistakes that have been made in this debate. Firstly, it has been said here that the laws must treat both parliamentarians and other citizens in the same way. Congressman Kivelä claimed otherwise to be elitist earlier. This whole debate is taking place precisely because Article 30 of the Constitution It is precisely on the basis of what has been said in the House that the representative of Parliament is given a special status in criminal proceedings. This provision states that a Member of Parliament may not be prosecuted for the opinions he has expressed in Parliament unless the Parliament authorises it by a qualified majority of five-sixths. Parliament's freedom of expression is thus protected by a special legal threshold for criminal proceedings in the Constitution, because it is at the heart of freedom of expression. The Constitution does not provide similar protection for statements outside this Chamber, not as a statement by parliamentarians or by other citizens. Here and only here, at the heart of the parliamentary speech, the message of the Member of Parliament is particularly protected. This is a constitution. If the Constitution does not please the MP, it can be proposed to amend it by means of a legislative initiative. However, the question of prosecution now needs to be assessed on the basis of the law in force. Secondly, it has been said here that all the experts consulted in the committee were in favour of breaking the immunity, as has been said in the oral hearing. In my view, the oral hearings of the committee are not public and cannot be referred to here in the Chamber, or are there different rules on this matter? Apparently, someone is concerned because the oral hearing had also been leaked to the public. However, it is clear from the written statements that not all experts took a position on whether or not to issue an indictment. Thirdly, it has been said that the immunity of a Member of Parliament would only protect the political majority from using the legal and violent apparatus to oppress the minority and that immunity would not protect unpleasant or aggressive speech. Well, immunity was introduced into the constitution that came into force in 2000 and is therefore not such a legal anachronism, that is, an ancient relic, but must have a specific purpose in such a modern rule of law. And the specific purpose of immunity, as stated — a direct quote from the expert opinion received by the Constitutional Committee — ‘has been given the widest possible freedom to review public affairs’. On that legal objection
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u203	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this opportunity, as chairman of the committee, for the closing statement. As we know, in this house the Constitutional Committee is making a legal assessment, and here I am still trying to open up this majority view on this issue. What, then, was the committee's position on this matter? The question was, does this fill in? Mäenpää's speech about the crime characterisation, and if you do, how serious the crime is. Mr PeV's assessment was whether the immunity provided for in the MP's constitution could be broken in a criminal case of this kind. The D.A. considered Mäenpää to have committed the most likely crime of arousal. Instigation against the people is provided for in Chapter 11, Section 10 of the Penal Code. It was also assessed what type of crime and the seriousness of the crime are at stake here. Experts felt that this was a serious crime based on a number of international agreements. In the view of the majority of the committee, when it comes to comparing immigrants with animals and plants that are not part of Finland's natural environment and should therefore be eradicated, it is a question of reducing human dignity and this statement is degrading. It was considered to be a violation of equality, and the Constitution in Finland assumes that it will safeguard the integrity of human dignity. This was not a question of punishment and penalty scale, nor did it become a question to be assessed. In that respect, even though this is a rather small punishment — a fine or a maximum of two years’ imprisonment — this has not been the subject of the committee's assessment. The majority of the committee felt that this authorisation for prosecution should be given, but that does not mean a statement on the question of guilt or even on whether or not to prosecute in this matter. So we cannot anticipate or go all the way to the Court of Justice in this conclusion. This also concerned whether it was a deliberate or a negligent act. This would have been the case by now if the prosecution had been carried out until then, and the committee abstained on this matter. With regard to freedom of expression, it is true that the Members of Parliament have a wide range of language protection, but it is not untouched. For the benefit of Mäenpää, it can be said that it was indeed a question of talking about the government programme and that the representative represents the opposition here. In other words, it is considered that it is also of a kind relevant to this issue, but it is considered that the MP is not free from criminal liability. Well, for the majority of the committee, it was not enough for the Constitutional Committee to say that: The talks at the top of the hill have been inappropriate and imprudent, but they would not have been in favour of granting permission. So, on the contrary, many thought about it in terms of what would happen and what would be the impression if it were shushed in the matter, pressed with wool, and considered that the house rules were sufficient to deal with this matter. The prosecution has completed this plea. There was also a misunderstanding here that this would not have happened. This has happened and the prosecutor has announced that he will be accused in March if he is allowed to do so. And, contrary to what has been said here, this does not make a taboo of immigration criticism, but will continue to be able to speak — we must be able to seriously criticise immigration policy. But even in this case, Mr Mäenpää would have had the opportunity to choose his words differently and do so in such a way that human dignity is not violated. There was a need to resolve this, and the majority of the committee now came to this conclusion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-24-ps-102.u204	The fourth item in the order of business is presented for table setting. The Council of Presidents proposes that the report be put on the table for the plenary session on 25 June 2020. The Council of Presidents proposes that the following procedure be followed for the sole examination of the fourth draft amending budget: The hearing will begin on Thursday, 25 June 2020, at 12 noon. After a presentation by the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, a one-and-a-half-hour debate will follow, divided into two 45-minute sections so that the groups can exchange debators halfway through the debators. After the debate, we shall move on to the general debate, in which the speaking time allocated in advance may not exceed 5 minutes. Other interventions shall not exceed 3 minutes. The amendments must be submitted to the Central Assembly no later than 12 noon on Thursday 25 June 2020. The relevant votes will take place on Friday 26 June 2020. To the extent that no amendments to the fourth amending budget have been proposed, it is deemed to have been adopted in accordance with the report of the Committee on Finance.
