ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u1	The second item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the Council of Ministers and I would ask those who wish to put a question to the minister present to register now by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u2	Congressman Juvonen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u3	Mr President! The number of coronavirus infections is growing at a significant rate in Finland. Yesterday the WHO declared the corona virus a pandemic. The WHO also strongly criticised the fact that not all countries have taken adequate action to combat the epidemic. Today the government finally announced how it intends to slow down the spread of the corona virus in Finland. Among other things, the government issued recommendations to cancel major public events. True Finns support the government’s actions, but more needs to be done. In the opinion of the Finns Party, a message should be given immediately about closing schools and other educational institutions. We are prepared to support the introduction of the Emergency Act so that the necessary measures are legally possible. Protecting the population is now the most important thing. Are you prepared, Mr Government, to take strict measures, even to introduce a preparedness law, to protect the public? Are you going to make a recommendation to the municipalities to close schools?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u4	Mr President! As I have told you today, and I have also spoken to the parliamentary party chairmen on the phone and otherwise informed, at six o'clock today we will meet together with the parliamentary party chairmen and the parliamentary group chairmen to discuss this situation in advance if we were to have to introduce such tough, serious measures in Finland. This would require action under the preparedness legislation, and today, together with the groups, we are discussing parliamentaryly whether there is a willingness to do so. I personally think that we are not in that situation at the moment. We do not have such recommendations at the moment from our health authorities, but if this were the case and if this were the case, I think it is good that we are already having this debate with all the groups in advance so that, if we need to act, we will be able to do so very quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u5	Mr Henriksson also wishes to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u6	Mr President! It's a very important question. The Emergency Act dates back to 2012, and the Emergency Act has never yet had to be applied. The definition of emergency conditions in the Emergency Act is limited to very serious crises affecting the entire nation or at least a large part of it and affecting the functioning of society as a whole. The definition of emergency conditions is contained in Section 3 of the Emergency Act and it is important to bear in mind now that we also have criteria in the Emergency Act, definitions that must be fulfilled in order to introduce the Emergency Act. In one of these paragraphs, it states: ‘Exemption andthis law...have the effect of a particularly serious major accident to a great extent a dangerous infectious disease. “ And, in a way, what we might be doing some time later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u7	And now I would ask those representatives who want to ask further questions on this matter to the ministers, to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u8	Mr President! The contingency plan clearly provides guidance: anticipate, analyse and prevent. The slower we move now, the harder the situation will be later. You told us that a letter will be sent home to the public to provide information on corona infection. The mail will bring it in in a week or so. Don't you think it's time for money? This doesn't sound very effective: a week, a letter. The main risks are the elderly, the disabled and the long-term ill. They must be protected by all means. If such a person falls ill with the coronavirus, he or she is in danger of life and is likely to need hospitalization, even intensive care. This is a very difficult situation in which we need to ensure that the care staff are able to cope. What capacity do we have to ensure that Finnish health care does not become a crisis, but that patients continue to receive good care? Where do you get nurses, medical staff if your medical staff gets sick? Are there any contingency plans for where we can get nurses and medical reserves?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u9	Mr President! It is very important to prepare for the availability of medical staff in all circumstances. What is most important is the fact that we have viable and healthy staff at our disposal. In this regard, we have come to the conclusion that every effort must now also be made to oblige employers in this sector to ensure that those who come from, and may come from, epidemic areas do not just show up at the workplace, but agree on how to deal with this absence so that we can be sure that the staff will be healthy when they talk about preventing such an important virus on the hospital network and in care and care facilities. In this respect, this is the most essential measure, but other measures, which have already been discussed a long time ago, have also been taken, and in this regard:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u10	Mr President! This situation has been monitored very closely since the beginning of January and we have taken measures in each situation. Now the situation is that in Finland too there will be more cases of these diseases and it can be seen that in Finland too this will expand. That is why we adopted new measures today. In the negotiations with the government, we made guidelines on how to do things, for example, with regard to public events. As far as this information is concerned, we have previously informed the parliamentary groups, I have given the Prime Minister's announcement, we have held briefings. Of course, our interested parties, the relevant ministries and also the authorities, the THL primarily, have been informing about this all the time, and today, on this communication, we have set out to extend the corona information points also to land borders — we currently have information points in ports, airports, and this is also being extended to land borders — to ensure the timeliness of the travel newsletters, to extend the national helpline service to meet demand and to ensure that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u11	Mr President! According to the latest data, no cases outside the known transmission chains have yet been detected in Finland. However, it may be asked whether this is due to the fact that even symptomatic patients may not be tested if they cannot be linked to a known chain of infections. It is important that efforts are made to slow down and limit the epidemic within Finland. At the same time, however, every effort must be made to prevent new infections from coming across borders. Austria restricts entry from Italy, Estonia has banned cruise ships from its ports. Similar quarantine measures are now spreading more widely around the world, which is a very good thing. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has just instructed citizens that it is wiser not to travel anywhere. I would like to ask: will the government take action to limit passenger traffic here until the situation is under international and national control?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u12	Mr President! Thank you for the question. Throughout the spread of this epidemic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has first looked very closely at these epidemic areas, and day by day has increased its travel warnings to the affected areas. After all, the situation is that there are now a very large number of countries and a very large number of entities in the area of epidemics. Today we have also seen this US decision that the Schengen area can no longer travel to the United States. Such national decisions must come from different countries. The advice of the Foreign Ministry today is to avoid all unnecessary travel in all directions because this epidemic has now spread in a great many European countries, not to mention the countries from which it started, such as Asia.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u13	Mr President! I'm sure this answered a lot of questions. [From the Group of the Fundamental Finns: Not answered!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u14	Congressman Orphan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u15	Mr President! The Korona virus is a huge international crisis. Finns are concerned, and rightly so, may be. Many of us, every Finn, have someone at risk who is really worried about, for example, older people or the long-term sick. That is why the Coalition Party believes that we should rather do more and sooner rather than less and later — that is, more and earlier. That is why we are prepared to support all the necessary means proposed by the government — all possible means. On Monday, we had a debate with all party chairmen on the initiative of the President of the Republic, including the reform of the Emergency Act. We then said that we in the opposition were prepared to support the introduction of the Emergency Act. I would now like to ask Prime Minister Marin whether the measures you have announced today and which in themselves are good — we support them, particularly this ban on major events —
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u16	Mr President! The Government is prepared to act quickly and decide quickly, and that is why today we are also having this debate with the parliamentary groups, together with the parliamentary parties. I do not see that this is a matter of government or opposition. I can see that this is a situation that is facing Finland and has already faced it, so it is good that we are discussing this together and we are also preparing for it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u19	Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u20	Mr President! It is essential to secure the capacity of medical care in order to combat the disadvantages of the interest rate epidemic. These most serious forms of coronavirus, such as respiratory distress and pneumonia, may require intensive treatment. In Italy, this situation has already led to the unfortunate selection that not all of these intensive care facilities have been sufficient. We have over two hundred intensive care places in Finland and the most important bottleneck is the number of people who have received vocational training. My question is whether the government is now prepared for the fact that, if more intensive care is needed, we will have the capacity to recruit skilled staff, for example, from a pension or possibly to undertake some additional training for nurses and doctors so that they can take up these tasks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u21	Mr President! At the moment, we are still focusing on this limitation so that we can secure its working medical staff. It is extremely important that we protect this particular staff who work in the various health care sectors. At the moment, it has been estimated that if this epidemic comes here to Finland when it comes here,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u22	Mr President! Just as Mr Pekonen said, we must now restrict ourselves so that we can make this situation more flexible and I would recommend even stronger means of limiting it. But my question: have you thought about the fact that, when we are currently at that border, when we assess whether there is a case of disease, for example, there should be a health care person with the Border Guard, could we quickly change the law so that the health care person would not be needed, but that border guards would have the capacity and the powers to assess this situation, because we do not have enough of those health care workers to reach the border? I would recommend that this law be changed quickly and brought here. I'm sure we'd applaud it quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u23	Mr President! The government has stated that, as this epidemic progresses, we are always prepared to look at our current legislation and make changes to it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u24	Mr President! There are many medical professionals here in the Chamber, and we all know that the only way to stop this disease from progressing is to shut down day-care centres and schools. If that is what you are going to decide this evening when you are having a debate with the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and the party chairmen, then I would ask you to consider how to do it with the matriculation exams, because this spring's matriculation examination is about to take place in the next two weeks. The question itself relates to the national contingency plan for the influenza pandemic. It's from 2012, which means it's eight years old. Are you prepared to update it, and are you also prepared to decide that it should be updated regularly in the future, for example every four years?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u25	Now both Minister Pekonen and Prime Minister. The Prime Minister will begin.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u26	Mr President! I am not an expert in health care, but I have discussed with the experts at THL precisely how it is estimated that this disease is going to run in society. At the moment, the estimate is that around 35% of the population in Finland could get this disease, but we are not talking about the figures that Germany has spoken about. This is the THL's expert evaluation. He's told me this. As far as the way this disease is going is concerned, my view, based on this debate and expert judgements, is that we will hardly be able to stop the disease in society. It is likely that many Finns will suffer from it. What we are trying to do is to slow down the progression of the disease.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u33	Mr President! As the representative well said, we have a contingency plan and also a pandemic plan, and I dare say that a great deal has been done since the last time — in a similar situation in this country with regard to swine flu. That was indeed a lesson learned, and we have these contingency plans, pandemic plans, and I am familiar with them all. In Finland, too, we are extremely well prepared for this situation, precisely because after swine flu we have had the excellent after-shave work done. We have, for example, these medical supplies, protective equipment for medical staff in stock at the moment, and so, in the case of medicines, we have these reserves of obligations which do not exist in other European countries, and I believe that this is extremely important. But as far as this updating of plans is concerned, it is clear that once this corona virus situation calms down, we will review the situation picture, update all the plans, and it may be necessary that these too always be.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u34	Mr President! I think it is very important that the government has made these recommendations today. It is now important that this information also moves really quickly among the citizens, and I agree with what has been said here: this is what must be done. I also share the Prime Minister’s idea that the most important thing now is to slow down the spread of this corona virus — that is to say, to slow down the spread, to loosen the angle. However, I will come back to this question, which has already been addressed a little bit, on the matter of preparedness. As has been said here at the mouth of the Minister of Justice, it has not been available to us and it is a very serious measure if we go to it. Nevertheless, I would like to ask either the Minister of Justice or the Prime Minister: Where are the criteria met in this situation if the Emergency Act is to be introduced? And if it is decided to introduce it, how quickly is it to be introduced?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u35	Mr President! My impression is that the Emergency Act is to be introduced very quickly. So today, when we meet with the parliamentary groups, we will go over this situation and take this assessment together. The President of the Republic, together with the Government, would then make this a policy. The Government would issue a regulation on this, which should be dealt with quickly in Parliament, so we would rather talk about the days, that we can take this process away than, for example, weeks, that is, very quickly, that we can act here. But will the Emergency Act be introduced? That's a different question. And is this exactly the kind of situation that should be? I believe that this should be assessed, but at the moment I do not have the strong view that this is the situation that should be the case. On the contrary, we have not, for example, been recommended by the authorities at the moment. We have the competent authorities. It is a question of whether we trust the competent authorities to have their own
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u36	Mr President! After all, we are living in the rule of law and we have all believed that it is important that the legislation that we have should also be observed. And, of course, what we are now facing is also an assessment of whether these criteria, which are required by the exemption law, are being met. In this previous speech, I made the point that there is such a provision in this current Emergency Act, which says: ‘Exemption andthis law provides for a major accident of particular severity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u42	Congressman Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u43	Mr President! The government has said that since January this situation has been monitored. I believe it would be easier to limit these cases and this whole pandemic if you took these measures in time. Does the government have a limit that there must be a thousand infected or a thousand infected before action is taken?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u45	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u46	Now there's more than one minister standing up. — Prime Minister Marin, on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u47	Mr President! We always work on the basis of the situation and assessment we are in. My view, when I have spoken to these experts, as I said before, is not that Finland should be shut down — we should close schools, day-care centres, restrict movement and take very robust measures — to prevent it,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u50	And also Minister Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u51	Mr President! I would now like to stress that, in this debate, a lot is being discussed about schools and schools and how they are being put on hold, that, under the current legislation, our authorities, where this is necessary, will be able to decide on the closure or quarantine of schools or parts of schools in this situation. This has also been the case in Finland when there have been cases of infection in educational institutions or when there is a suspicion that the pupils are exposed. In other words, our current legislation gives our authorities the opportunity to act where necessary. In addition to that, the government has today issued guidelines, which are also related to the education sector, perhaps the most important thing, is that in the case of a child, a pupil or a person of teaching staff who has travelled to a country with an epidemic, we recommend that these, including asymptomatic children and adults, stay home for two weeks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u53	Mr President! The number of coronavirus infections is increasing exponentially. According to extensive statistics from different countries, the number of cases at least doubles every two days unless the progression of the disease is slowed down. The daily growth rate of 40 or 50 percent may not sound very large, but the exponential growth curve may surprise the human mind. Mr President! In Italy, the number of cases diagnosed in 16 days increased 350-fold — I repeat 350-fold. In order to cut off the transmission chains in Italy, schools, kindergartens and universities were closed, public events were closed and movements were restricted by strict measures. Similar actions China managed to control the epidemic in about a month and a half. Now concrete measures have finally been taken in other Nordic countries, and this is what we need to do in Finland. Mr President! My question is: does the government agree that no decisive action is being taken on an epidemic and pandemic that is moving so fast?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u54	Mr President! The difference between the situations in Finland and Italy is that in Italy, for example, it has never been possible to properly assess how these transmission chains are going, and the situation is not the same in Finland. We have been able to assess who has received the disease, have been tested, have been able to evaluate the transmission chains and have been carried out and have imposed quarantine measures, for example. Which means that our authorities have been working at the moment. This has been the case so far. It now seems that more of these cases of disease are also occurring in Finland, and this is also spreading here into an epidemic. We are now acting accordingly, and that is why today the government has held the negotiations and adopted new guidelines for this situation. If the situation developed, we would still be prepared to take decisions and act, and that is why, together with the parliamentary groups and the parliamentary parties today, we will also meet to discuss this whole. I would also like to remind you that Finland also has a very strong restriction on mobility, that schools and day-care centres are closed and that society's activities are closed anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u55	Mr President! As the Prime Minister said, the situation in Italy was very different, because it did not really identify these transmission chains, and then this delimitation could not be made. But at the moment we are aware of all the cases that have been recorded and of their transmission chains and we are still able to limit this disease. I would also like to point out to you that nature is, listen, wonderful. If we were to close this society now, it would have to be done for about three months — schools, day-care centres, garrisons, shopping centres, public transport. What would result? Then, when this demarcation is dismantled and society as if it were reopening, the virus still lives here. And in the worst case scenario, that epidemic will come anyway. Our purpose now is really to limit this disease and also to reduce the disease peak so that we do not have a situation where our hospitals around Finland are filled with corona patients, but that we get this sort of chain of infection here in Finland, as it were.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u58	Mr President! Corona infection is a risk particularly for the elderly, the multi-diseased, young and adult patients with anti-resistance medication or disease. It is a pity, in itself, that the supply chains have not been caught in time. Infectors have moved among the population when there are too few tests. I would ask the government: How to protect these people at risk from getting an infection? How to ensure that it is available to all those in need of treatment when they need it? And is the government prepared to give possible guidance for prioritising if the need rises too rapidly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u59	Mr President! It is here that we have made recommendations yesterday and today on how we are protecting not only that health care staff but also those patients and customers in high-risk groups in the health and social care sector. And it is now very important that we can limit this disease away from these institutions, where people at greatest risk are. But I still believe that all of us, all of us Finns, also have a responsibility to identify these people at risk, the elderly, the long-term sick, and to consider them in this society also by our own conduct. All of us also have a responsibility to how we operate in this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u60	Congressman Lindén.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u61	Mr President! The most important thing in the fight against communicable diseases is the right measures at the right time. That is what has been discussed here, although I do not think this is a political and ideological issue. There are currently 489 infected people in Norway, the current situation in Sweden is 604, there are 612 in Denmark. Finland is currently in a situation in which these countries were in a week ago. The measures taken today by the government of the country are so pre-eminence that, at the same time, those measures had not yet been taken in those countries which were comparable to us. This timeliness is very important. At that time, I myself raised the Prime Minister's announcement on 27 February as the last item in the Emergency Act in the SDP's group statement. That too, as we have heard, is ready. Is the government monitoring the situation in and against the background of these neighbouring countries in order to assess the timeliness of the measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u62	Mr President! Yes, we are, and we are also in contact with our neighbouring countries about what kind of measures are being taken in Finland. This week I also attended the European Council's video conference, which was convened and dealt with the situation and the actions of all EU countries. We also dealt extensively with this economic aspect. Not only do we have this virus and we, too, are likely to have an epidemic in Finland, but of course this will also have a large impact on the economy and society, and the government is also prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u63	Mr President! Not only in the Nordic countries, but also across Europe, authorities are currently trying to prevent the spread of the corona virus by, among other things, restricting the sick to isolation and imposing carnivals and restricting movement and also closing schools and day-care centres. This is no longer a question of simply trying to monitor these transmission chains, but of buying time for health care chains. Now let us buy out time for our health care system so that it does not overburden it or its components at the same time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u65	Mr President! That is what we are doing, that is what we are doing. The Government has today presented measures in its negotiations; today we are meeting with parliamentary groups to discuss even heavier measures. My assessment at the moment is not that we should move on to the Emergency Act or that we should largely shut down the functions of society, but if the situation changes, then there is a readiness for this too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u66	Mr President! Now the government is expected to be a leader. Solutions must not be left to individual people, but there is now a need for proactive measures, clear information and clear guidelines from the government. Today we heard that HUS' cardiologist has been working sick and exposed a large part of his team and there is a big risk that this will spread throughout our HUS hospital. People are worried for a very important reason, and now I ask: what is the government going to do?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u69	Minister Kiuru will be here in the middle, but he's ready to respond. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u70	I hope, Mr President, that it is a good thing, because other health ministers in Europe also wanted to know what action has been taken here, and in that respect we too have an important role to play in this EU family – I believed that war certainly does not need one soldier. Perhaps now, however, the important question raised by Mr Sarkomaa is precisely how we are now talking about how each of us can contribute to the outbreak of this possible future epidemic. One important point is that these risk groups, which are therefore people with people’s diseases, i.e. the basic sick people, but also the elderly, must be protected. Each one of us can take action, wondering if now is the time to visit, for example, the service housing side, whether you can keep in touch in other ways. This is how we can get to the point, but we have been giving instructions to these housing units and other care centres throughout this journey,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u71	Mr President! It was precisely these questions and concerns that we answered today at the government information conference. With regard to the question of how citizens should act, for example, in relation to groups at risk, the government calls for special caution — in the case of older people, in the case of people with underlying diseases, particularly great caution must be exercised in their own activities, in their own close contacts. If there are any symptoms, do not go to work, do not go to day-care centres, do not go to school, and do not meet older grandparents, for example, if the grandchild has symptoms. In other words, particular caution now needs to be exercised by every citizen and, in his own behaviour, consideration must be given to how we can protect those who are in a vulnerable position. That is precisely the concerns that we have answered today, and that is exactly what we have given guidance on, and of course here the health authorities, the staff, are the experts we are relying on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u73	Mr President! Minister Pekonen here estimates that 35% of the population would fall ill in the first wave of this corona virus,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u75	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u76	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u78	Mr President! The availability of oxygen equipment is certainly one of the key issues when we assess our ability to function in the field. Hospitals are prepared for some of our citizens to become ill in a way that also requires intensive care. In the case of intensive care, equipment is used that, of course, would not be very much used under normal conditions, and if an epidemic breaks out, then of course the need is greater. We are prepared to work with this current capacity, but we are also prepared to act when demand is so high that we would have to switch operating rooms, for example, to intensive care facilities. All of this at the moment has been prepared by health authorities in all medical districts, and this preparatory work has already been carried out for these early months.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u82	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u83	Congressman Forsgrén.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u84	Mr President! Korona also requires preparation in different parts of the school path. Learning must be secured if schools are shut down. I am particularly concerned about children with underlying diseases. The interest must not be cut off from their school path. In the spring there will be matriculation examination and university entrance exams. Organising these is a prerequisite for students to enter the next stage of their studies. Thirdly, it is a question of having people, such as social and health professionals, who, while remaining healthy, have every reason to be at work. If, for example, schools and day-care centres have to be closed, care should also be taken for the care of the children of social workers and workers in other activities that are important for society. I would like to ask the Minister for Education: how is the government prepared to ensure education and early childhood education in an epidemic situation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u85	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Forsgrén, for the extremely important question. One of the starting points for preparation in the education sector is that we can safeguard the right of children and young people to take part in education also in exceptional circumstances. This means, from the point of view of the education provider, that if you have a child who is quarantined or has a confirmed infection, then we expect that the providers of education will also be flexible in their efforts to ensure that these children are able to study at home, such as at a distance. As far as the matriculation exams are concerned, our primary objective is to make the matriculation exams run as well as possible during this spring, i.e. there would be no disruptions affecting the organisation of matriculation exams, and at the moment the primary starting point is that if you have a student who has fallen ill or is quarantined, you can cancel your registration for this examination. So that's when we do what we're supposed to do.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u86	Congressman Hänninen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u87	Mr President! Now that the Korona virus has spread to Finland, it is up to the Government and Parliament to take all the measures that experts consider necessary and effective. This is a serious issue relating to human health, which should not under any circumstances now be a political issue. I and the whole left-wing delegation are concerned about how people's livelihoods will be secured during this epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u92	Mr President! If an employee is subject to quarantine under the Act on Contagious Diseases, he is then entitled to a 100 % daily allowance for infectious disease during that period of quarantine. If the employer pays a salary for this period, the employer will then receive this daily allowance. If, then, because of this corona disease, the worker is sick at home, then, of course, the pay for sickness is determined in accordance with the TES, according to the Employment Contracts Act and collective agreements. If, for example, an employee is quarantined when he returns from the trip and has no symptoms and is not ill, i.e. he is subjected to this two-week quarantine, the starting point is to agree with the employer. After all, in some situations it is possible that the employee does this work remotely. In the field of social and health care and education, it has been agreed that schools should organise them in such a way that there will be no loss. If the employee is:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u93	Mr President! After all, this whole virus epidemic got its way out of Wuhan City, China. There are about 11 million people there. The entire city of Wuhan was closed down and quarantined when the number of infections was four hundred — four hundred — and at this rate in Finland, a half - smaller country, this four hundred probably will be filled during the weekend. The Coalition Party supports any truly impressive action to control the epidemic. But, Prime Minister Marin, tell us: how many Finns must get sick before you take genuinely effective measures?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u94	Mr President! Yes, Finland has been taking genuinely effective measures all the time. Our authorities have followed this situation closely,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u97	Mr President! You don't have to be a prophet to say it's going to be a week or two, and you have to close all the schools in Finland for a reason that you don't have enough health care capacity. As for this Wuhan — such information certainly exists for the Prime Minister — as soon as data was examined when there were 400 sick persons, in reality there were 2,500 sick persons there at that moment. Now, after that, it has been established. This is the kind of data you can find if you know how to look. But as far as these experts are concerned, Prime Minister and Government, those experts are actually at that grassroots level. What did the companies do when passengers from China or Northern Italy came back to Finland? They said: “Don’t go out to work, stay away. “ What was the last time the nursing homes, such as Attendo, did they do? They said: “Don’t go out to visit. “ So this clear line exists for companies that have to pay a higher price for it. And I hope that you will take the example of these everyday experts and act proactively. And secondly, if you do not believe them, believe what the WHO has said that for everyone
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u98	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u99	Mr President! I would like this serious situation to remain calm in this Chamber, too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u100	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u101	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u102	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u103	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u104	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u105	Let's move on with the questions. — Mr Aittakumpu.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u106	Mr President! The central government parliamentary group considers the measures taken by the government to be justified and correct because of the interest rate. The Korona virus reminds us that man is not omnipotent, but we must do our best. Everything must be done to care for people’s health. In particular, we must protect those who are most vulnerable to corona disease in terms of health. Korona also reminds us of the importance of ensuring adequate security stocks and the provision of medicines. How do we manage in the international world when we are no longer able to rely, for example, on medicines in all situations abroad? I would like to ask the government: what measures is the government taking to safeguard the supply of medicines so that, in the event of an international crisis, Finns will receive the medicines they need?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u107	Mr President! As I said earlier, we have a European speciality here in Finland when we have these prescription stores of medicines in which there are many medicines stored and for various diseases. What is unfortunate about this corona virus is, of course, that there is no cure for this corona virus at the moment, as there is no vaccine. But it is always possible that this corona virus will cause post-diseases, for which, for example, we need antibiotic treatment, and these are available in the reserve of obligations, and I am pleased to do so. As far as the development of medical care is concerned, we have a specific purpose in the government in the long term to develop our medical care in a safer and more secure way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u108	Mr President! In this tone, I am concerned about the fact that we are on the move very responsively, should take a more proactive approach. Here, the Prime Minister used the whole expression that action should be taken in the situation where we are. I think we need to look further: let us act now while there is still time. All we have to do is look at this development in the world and we are seeing at the moment how, for example, Italy and many countries have gone on a very similar curve of this development and, on the other hand, those countries where action has been taken, in the Far East, have managed to control the situation. Now, if we consider the response, we have been suggested here that 35% would be the greatest challenge we are now preparing for. If you think that 5% of it needs intensive care, then we are genuinely asking big questions in terms of our health - care carrying capacity: how are we going to reduce that wave? And now we still have time to influence it. I am concerned, above all, about which intensive care of breathing machines and [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u109	Mr President! As I have said many times in this Chamber today, these measures have already been taken. The government has held negotiations today, action has been taken. And these measures are already tough and, of course, they are accompanied by experts' assessments. We have had a THL expert involved both in this preparation and in the government negotiations today. In fact, I would also like to put a question to the Chamber about the basis on which you think we should act. I personally think that our authorities, health professionals, have the best knowledge of the matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u110	Mr Juvonen, who raised the issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u111	Mr President! The virus spreads like wildfire. We all know that we are living in this epidemic. After five years, the programme looked like an intensive care unit in Italy and what is happening there. The program was shown not because it would increase panic or anxiety, but because we would get a realistic picture of where we are going. We're in the middle of a bad movie or a nightmare. We do not know what is coming, but we know that we are dealing with a serious, serious illness. Mr President! There are a lot of people in those homes who are quite rightly afraid. I get a lot of calls, not because I'm a congressman, but because I have a background as a nurse and a long career. People are asking me what to do. What kind of greetings are you sending to the homes now? First of all, the handicrafts are all over the place: they are not available at the pharmacy, they are not available at the convenience store. In what way do you now secure its Finnish survival in the midst of this serious, extremely serious disease crisis?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u112	Mr President! This question by Mr Juvosen is important in such a way that we are all in a situation where we are certainly asked for individual advice, even if some of the questions should actually be put to someone who has these answers. We already recognised this situation when the Prime Minister's announcement in this House was the subject of a debate. At that time, the representatives hoped that we could really respond with this information from the authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u113	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u114	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u115	The third item in the order of business is presented for the presentation of the interim question. Mr Ville Tavio and 39 other representatives have tabled a mid-term question on the government's asylum policy, the VK 1/2020 vp. I now give the floor to the first signatory of the intermediate question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u116	The fourth point of the agenda is the topical debate on the Nordic border barriers. The topical debate will be opened by the Chairman of the Nordic Council Delegation to Finland, represented by Erkki Tuomioja, in a five-minute speech. The following speeches will be made by Mr Blomqvist, Minister for Nordic Cooperation and Equal Opportunities, including 5 minutes, Sirpa Paatero, Minister for Local Government, still 5 minutes, and Mr Lulu Ranne, Chairman of the Nordic Council Working Party on Border Barriers, still 5 minutes. The President shall then, in the order in which he is considering, give his response. Responses will be reserved for the plenary session by V-button. We'll schedule an hour and a half for the conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u117	Mr. Speaker! I will start with a quote: ‘I work in Finland on a Swedish ship. I pay my social security contributions as a tax to Sweden. My Swedish employer pays my pension contributions, so my pension cover is also in Sweden. The problem for me and for everyone else in a similar situation is that we cannot access our own information in Swedish agencies. As a resident of Finland, it is impossible for me to obtain Swedish e-justimation, mobile identification or bank authentication. All electronic identification devices require a Swedish identity card, which I cannot obtain because I do not live in Sweden. Therefore, I cannot deal with the Swedish Tax Office, Kela or the pension authority.” This message from the citizen tells us very concretely about border barriers. A large number of people live in border regions or other Nordic countries who face border barriers when they live, work or study, engage in business or retire in another Nordic country. We have all received numerous contacts from people who have experienced practical problems like this when moving across borders to another Nordic country. Such day-to-day problems can relate to taxation, social benefits, access to social and health services, restrictions on working life, mutual recognition of professional qualifications and so on. The list is long because there are many obstacles that hinder free movement between the Nordic countries. Of course, work to remove such obstacles does not mean full harmonisation of legislation. We can maintain and develop our own legislation, according to our values and needs, sometimes with different priorities, without creating obstacles to people’s everyday lives and mobility. Mr. Speaker! It is the responsibility of all, both parliaments and governments, to remove these Nordic border barriers and thus to facilitate the movement of people in the north. Free movement in the Nordic countries, a common labour market and the opportunity to study and live in all the Nordic countries are benefits that have been achieved as a result of long-term work and must be maintained in the future. Mobility between the Nordic countries also contributes to growth and employment. The removal of border barriers has long been on the Nordic Council's agenda, and much work is being done on it. The Finnish PN delegation will keep this issue permanently on the agenda, including by inviting one minister to attend each meeting with whom dialogue will take place. In addition, at the initiative of the Finnish delegation, a Council recommendation on effective Nordic border barrier work was sent to the Government. This work requires a clear political will, both from the government and from us as parliamentarians. How to ensure that EU directives are implemented in the same way in all Nordic countries so that differences do not constitute Nordic border barriers? For example, when drafting draft laws, it would be important to clarify the consequences of the proposal for those moving within the Nordic countries. In reforming the legislator's guide, the Nordic border barriers should be taken into account, as former Prime Minister Sipilä promised. Pressure should be put on governments to remove border barriers and keep questions on the agenda. And I look forward to seeing how ministers Blomqvist, Paatero and others will find out how, in their own field of government, they are implementing the goal of the Nordic Prime Ministers to make the Nordic countries the most integrated region in the world. We want to make everyday life easier for our citizens, but how can we help a citizen working on a Swedish ship to get his own information in Swedish agencies? And how do you help a large number of other people who are struggling with border barriers? Digital services are one of the most important priority frontier barriers jobs this year. By enabling the use of a national electronic personal identity code in all Nordic countries, this is of great importance to both people and business, and could become a new milestone in Nordic cooperation, as important as the passport union in its day. I would like to express my thanks to the President, on behalf of the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council, for this debate, which is particularly important to the citizens, in plenary today. I expect and hope that this will be a tradition and that we will have similar debates every year in which we are going through progress or lack of progress. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u118	Mr President! In September 1951, the Nordic Parliamentary Committee on Freedom of Movement met in Gothenburg with a view to smoother interaction between the Nordic countries. The work was determined. Less than a year later, in 52 C.E., citizens were granted the right to reside in another Nordic country without a passport or a different permit, and before the Committee decided its work 56, joint labour markets and social benefits and facilitations in customs had also been agreed. This haste can still encourage us today.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u119	Mr President! The Government Programme has a strong policy that the Nordic countries are the most natural partners in Finland, and it is naturally natural because we have a strong history and strong common values: democracy, transparency, a welfare society built around the needs of citizens and a welfare state. We have set a goal of no less or more than the best integrated region in the world. This is done in such a way as to make it as easy as possible for both businesses and people, for the mobility of citizens, and to remove barriers to borders in this respect. Digitalisation is a good tool for making this e-services possible from one country to another. That's why it's been lifted, as we just heard, in the prioritization, right there in the first category. Within the Nordic Council of Ministers we have this kind of MR-DIGITAL, which is currently this kind of four years, and now for the next four years with these views, operating as a separate part of the Nordic Council. In the following years, we will have the objective of increasing the integration of mobility between countries and a common area for digital services. At the same time, of course, the sharing of information and the increasing of open data as cooperation between these countries can also be promoted. Secondly, we have one cooperation project between the Nordic countries and the Baltics in order to involve not only the Nordic countries but also the Baltic countries in the creation of interoperable e-identification solutions, thus facilitating our public administration for all these countries. The transition to digital services in this respect will facilitate, for example, the reporting of income for tax purposes, the application of various training programmes, the issuing of prescriptions on e-readers, the use of banking services and many other issues. At this point, it is a pleasure to tell you that the project in this Government Programme, which creates a digital identity for Finns, is moving at a good pace, when we are all about to create a secure, easy and accessible electronic identity, and it is also good to continue this Nordic cooperation. Well, the fact that we have this electronic identification does not, of course, always guarantee how this will happen in practice and the services there, we have a project on cross-border digital services, which then goes to that side of service production so that it can actually be used there, and in the following years these selected services will then be developed. Then in the direction of Estonia we have X-Road, which is thus a common platform for our data transfer solutions. So we already have this kind of secure data transfer tool so that we can have negotiations on adding countries to this – among other things last week discussed with Iceland a little more. After all, we have already had population register exchanges between the Nordic countries, and now this is also being extended between Finland and Estonia. A prescription with Estonia is also already in use. Another issue, which is partly related to other more traditional services: I have just received a report on cross-border cooperation between Finland and Norway on how services in social welfare and health care, rescue services and, among other things, education and labour mobility, and to strengthen economic activity, work genuinely between Finland and Norway. In particular, there are challenges here with regard to Sámi-speaking services, and recommendations for action have also been included in the report from now on. There is still a need to further develop the compatibility of services and cooperation between authorities. On the other hand, although we have laws and regulations and regulations, in some respects the practical way in which the authorities act does not necessarily support the fact that these barriers to borders are as small as possible. We may also need some legislative changes there too, for example, the social security system, which is so large, should be taken into account at this point when the social security reform is being carried out. It was also discussed in the context of the last wars, that how do we have these common services there in the northernmost part of Finland going forward in cooperation. Nordic cross-border cooperation cannot be, nor can it be, towards Estonia, one project or any individual thing, but is a continuous work, and we are a good example of it. I believe and hope that we will take great steps to ensure that this normal movement of people between these countries — at least in relation to these services relating to employment, taxation, social and health services — can be dealt with together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u120	Mr President! The work of the Border Barriers Council and its working group on border barriers is clear in itself. Removing the range of border barriers as a general rule and benefits The Nordic countries that make it easier for their companies and citizens to operate and live in the Nordic region. Multilateral win-win situations do not require any particular ideologies behind them. The things that are recorded as border barriers are indeed a heterogeneous list of sorrows from side to side. You might think things would be pretty good if one of the obstacles prioritised this year is the visibility of the programme content of public producers, such as Yle, in other Nordic countries. The benefits of geoblocking are mainly cultural. At the other end, you might think that there is not only digitalisation but also harmonisation of common building regulations. Their integration is a complex and long process, but it can be expected to have major economic, employment and environmental benefits. Here is a seam for real progress in terms of, for example, Nordic wood construction, the degree of domesticity in the construction sector and the forest industry. Mr President! However, for the majority of citizens, cooperation is seen as a free cross-border crossing at the borders between the Nordic countries without passport controls. Free border crossing has become an unquestionable dogma of border crossing cooperation that should not be discussed. Most of the so-called border barriers have nothing to do with crossing the physical border itself. The removal of other border barriers is therefore in no way incompatible with the fact that today's security situation requires the return of border controls to the borders between the Nordic countries as well. Finland should not be naive about this either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u121	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u122	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u123	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u125	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u126	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u127	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u128	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u130	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u131	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u132	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u133	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u134	Mr. Speaker! I am sorry that Mrs Ranne misused her speech, which was precisely a five-minute speech from the Border Barriers Group, to present the views of the Finns on immigration, which were not part of this debate or at least not part of this speech. I would like to thank the government for these views and answers that you have presented, and I wish you all the luck in putting them into practice, because, for example, as regards the removal of digital barriers, every time a new digital system is introduced, we know what new problems it is already creating in Finland – we already have problems in our own countries, for example, in getting healthcare systems digitally to talk with each other – so I really hope that this will lead to the conclusion that this will gradually succeed also between the Nordic countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u135	Mr President! I come from the border from Tornio and have crossed the border for the last ten years from Monday to Friday twice a day and worked in the Försäkringskassan International Unit specifically with EU affairs, with EU social security, family benefits, international medical care. As a frontier worker — i.e. I have lived on the Finnish side, worked on the Swedish side — these border barrier issues are very familiar. Before I go to them, I would just like to say briefly that customs control at that border is not strange to us, it has been done so long as we went to the EU and entered into Schengen, and it did not in any way hinder traffic there or people's attitude — it should rather talk about border security and perhaps not confuse it with border barriers. As regards these border barriers, it is the introduction of EU directives, the implementation of national legislation, which is lacking between the Nordic countries. We do a little different and different interpretations, and the problem is,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u136	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u137	Let's have that kind of one-minute speech. You'll have to ask for more in a minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u138	Mr President! Throughout my entire political career, I have fought against immigrationism and tried to bring realistic and truthful perspectives into immigration policy, but it must be said that in this demand, which has recently become the case in various fundamental Finnish speeches, it is precisely now and in this situation that border controls should be introduced, the basic Finns are totally wrong.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u139	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u140	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u141	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u142	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u143	Mr. Speaker! Thank you, first of all, for your excellent speech to the Judge-in-Office. Removing border barriers is an important task, but what is the reality? Sometimes it happens that when we remove one obstacle, two more will appear. That is why I would have asked the Minister: would it be possible to consider introducing such a border barrier assessment in the drafting of the law, which would then also force the authorities to assess whether there are genuine obstacles created or removed by this law? Like Mr Rydman, I am surprised at the way in which the Finns of Peru are now speaking in this debate, at all, at the requirement that these border controls should be returned. I'll tell you a few facts: We have 15 million inspections per year at the external borders. At internal borders, we have 50 million crossings a year. This proposal of yours would cost billions, it would be an input-output ratio of zero, it would not prevent any asylum seekers from coming to Finland. We should establish new border crossings in Tornio, High Tower, Pelloo, Kolari, Muonio, Karesuvanto, Kilpisjärvi, Kivilompolo, Karigasniemi and Nuorgam. With your proposal, our western border would be congested and queued like the eastern border. Are you absolutely certain that this is the policy you want to promote?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u144	Mr President, värderade talman! I personally strongly support the vision and the goal that the Nordic countries should be the most integrated region in the world. Together, the unified and strong Nordic countries are significantly larger both at European level and globally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u145	Mr President! The reasonably unambiguous task of the Nordic Border Barriers Working Group is to remove border barriers, and of course it could be easier to understand this purpose. Fortunately, many border barriers have been reduced. We've been working a lot lately. In the Nordic Council, for example, to combine e-prescriptions and antibiotic resistance practices, but surely the greatest hopes and expectations we all have include specifically the mobility of labour and work, services. As the chairman of the Nordic Council's delegation to Finland, the representative of the judgments well described these problems, we have difficulties in paying social benefits, unemployment benefits, long processing times that cause problems in terms of social security, unemployment security and creditworthiness, and we have big needs to make this organisation lighter. Unfortunately, Finland has been reasonably slow in the eIDAS system, among other things, and I would like to ask the Minister if, when it is intended that Finland should be ready in 22, can this happen?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u146	Mr President! As a Lapp Member of Parliament, there has been a good opportunity to monitor what borders of states mean to citizens. The eastern border has been closed for a long time, with the exception of official border crossings, while the border between Sweden and Norway has been very open in the west, for example in cultural strata and industrial structures, but there are problems. Firstly, at the Norwegian border, frontier workers have double taxation on part of their salary. Finland only partially recognises the tax paid to Norway when it should be fully taken into account. Secondly, the decisions of the Social Insurance Institution have been very strange in many cases. The husband and wife have the same work history and life situation and live together: one receives a Finnish Kela card, the other does not. Thirdly, Finland has, by its own decision, restricted, reduced and even reduced training places in the North Kalot Training Foundation Nord from sectors where employment has been the most secure and employment-oriented in the Nordic labour market. ♪ And fourth ♪
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u147	Mr President! We are talking here about developing Nordic cooperation and the welfare it has created. This is the common interest of all of us. Finland has identified ten border barriers for 2020, which we want to promote in a prioritised way. The overall objectives are good. I would like to make one of them central: social benefits for people, just as Mr Järvinen said earlier. They should be available to all, but there are currently some uncertainties regarding the country of payment in terms of mobility. It is these obstacles that can affect people's willingness to move between the Nordic countries. In addition, the Nordic Council of Ministers' objective of enabling digital access to another Nordic authority is a very central objective and I fully support the Government, as a member of the Council, in promoting these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u148	Mr President! I have been a member of the Nordic Council during the previous parliamentary term and I remember that a lot was already said about these border barriers, and it is a good thing that they are now also on the table here in Parliament. I would like to highlight this recognition of professional qualifications, and I would ask you, Minister: we have a lot of people in the care sector, nurses, local nurses working in Sweden, working in Norway — how does education correspond to that qualification both in the Nordic countries and in Finland? For example, we now have this proposal for a human resources law in the Parliament's deliberations, and we need a lot more staff. For example, there is a great shortage of care assistants in Finland, but how are they there in the Nordic countries? Is there such training there, and is it possible that Nordic education can be identified here in Finland, in what way could we further intensify cooperation so that we can attract nurses to work here in Finland when the Finnish Human Resources Act enters into force?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u149	Mr President! Thank you very much to the Judge-in-Office for giving a comprehensive and very concrete presentation of what should be done in the face of the border barriers in the Nordic countries. It is a very good objective that: The Nordic countries should be the most integrated region in the world, but unfortunately we still have a wide range of legislation, policies and practices that affect and hinder the everyday lives of people and businesses, especially businesses. It has been possible to develop this for less than 60 years, but still there is still quite a silo-like operating model in different Nordic countries. I think he was President Eerola when Finland took the initiative to encourage other Nordic countries to organise border barrier work as cross-sectorally as it has been done in Finland. After all, we have the Nordic-Norden Advisory Commission, where people from various ministries and administrative sectors try to reconcile these different challenging operating models, and this has been a very successful way of doing so. The representative of the Court of Justice has already raised this e-legalization,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u150	Mr President! Nordic cooperation has long and valuable traditions, and the Nordic countries are already one of the most integrated regions in the world. This has many great advantages for the economy, among other things. It is also excellent that we now have a Nordic Minister for Cooperation who can effectively address these issues and also deal with practical matters, such as those raised by Mr Mustajärvi, which are related to taxation. It is important that we continue to work for decades and remove the obstacles that remain. We must continue to strive to improve practices between the Nordic countries. The lists of border barriers between the Nordic Council of Ministers, the Border Barriers Council and Finland in 2020 are valid and reasonable. There is a need for systematic work to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u151	Mr President! The common goal of the Nordic countries is to be the most integrated region in the world, and to a very large extent we are already quite integrated, thanks to close cooperation. However, as has been well highlighted in previous speeches, we still have border barriers that appear in the everyday lives of individuals and businesses. At the individual level, for example, coordination problems relating to social security apply to many people, especially those who work or have worked in another Nordic country. I see it as particularly important that people should never be faced with a situation where, due to different practices, i.e. border barriers, it is unclear which country is responsible for paying a certain social benefit. Fortunately, this is also something that is being promoted. Digital dealings with another Nordic authority must be facilitated in order to make it easier to identify and deal with a person’s own affairs in another Nordic country. This is perhaps the most important of the prioritized border barriers, perhaps the most challenging. I think it's important that we take care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u152	Mr President! The Nordic countries are an exceptional region on a global scale. The area of freedom of movement in the Nordic countries is an exemplary area of international cooperation, which has a long history of close communication. It is very appropriate to address the obstacles to labour mobility. A major obstacle is the recognition of professional qualifications. Different regulation is a clear delay when one Nordic country does not recognise qualifications, qualifications or parts of qualifications acquired in another Nordic country. The harmonisation of qualifications requirements and recognition of qualifications between the Nordic countries must be carried out in a timely manner. In this way we could set an example for the whole of the EU. Labour mobility is also affected by the payment of social benefits. In some cases, there is a lack of clarity as to which country or body is obliged to pay the employee a social benefit. At its worst, this could result in neither country paying the benefit. From an employee’s point of view, the situation is unfair and, instead of encouraging, slow down mobility.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u153	Mr President! Traditionally, cooperation between the Nordic countries has been very easy because we are democratic states that respect international law and respect human rights. This is an excellent basis for good cooperation. Of course, there have always been little cracks on these occasions, and that too should not be denied. I would now say, for example, that in time Finns went to work there — less than 400,000 that figure is, around 350,000 people. They once went after a job in Sweden for quite mandatory reasons, when there was no work in Finland, and now that they have retired, they have not received it in full in Finland, because Sweden reserves its share of it first and then it is taxed for the second time in Finland. Of course, the Swedish tax is taken into account in Finland, but because of the higher progression, Finns pay a little more tax than others. That in this matter of tax treaties I would certainly like to see progress made and Finland would be active in it, as I believe it was. Then, with regard to the EU cooperation referred to by the Judge-in-Office, we all know that Sweden supports us in many areas of the EU, but unfortunately, in agricultural matters, for example, we have fallen short in some respects, and Sweden has not given us its support. Of course, there is a great deal of good done in these forms of cooperation, and we need to develop and expand cooperation in order to create these barriers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u154	Mr President! Nordic cooperation is of enormous importance to Finland and it is important that we continue to work concretely to remove barriers to borders. I also think that Mr Kärnä has made a good contribution to ensuring that all legislative work continues to be carried out in order to ensure that new barriers to borders are not created. This should be a very automatic procedure for drafting legislation in the ministries, but at the latest this should be ensured here at the parliamentary stage. Mr President! Mr Rydman spoke well on border controls and free movement in the Nordic countries. I'm not going to do it again, but I support his speech. But here I would like to take up this expert speech by Mr Hoskonen and the practical situation of the Finns who, in the 60s and 70s, were indeed employed in Sweden, but have now been able to return to their country of origin. Indeed, they find it difficult to obtain Swedish electronic identification because they do not have the Swedish social security number, which is required, for example, to deal with banking matters. This is a very concrete matter because Sweden, for example, has moved on to e-services in the area of pensions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u155	Let us take Mr Ojala-Niemelä and then the Ministers' replies and then continue this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u156	Mr President! Growing and born on that western border, I can say that when you cross that border, you hardly notice that you have moved from one country to another, but then, unfortunately, these barriers in the real everyday world come from different aspects of life. These are despicable of it, just as Mr Kärnä has said here that once they are removed, there will be another increase in them. I also read this latest study on the dismantling of cross-border cooperation between Finland and Norway and the obstacles that the Minister has just referred to, and there are still these old problems, such as the problems of access to health services in some situations. It mentioned, for example, that a frontier worker living in Finland and working in Norway may not have received an urgent service or a self-doctor, even if this is required by EU legislation. Now that this new social and health care system is being built up again, it would be important to take into account the fact that these barriers would not arise more, but that they could continue to benefit from these agreements, which exists, for example between Northern Finland and Norway. Social and health care is not the only thing where barriers exist, but the labour market and labour mobility,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u157	Now, the ministers' answers. Let me get this straight, Minister Paatero, 1 minute? One's enough. And Minister Blomqvist, 3 miner. Who's gonna go first? Paatero, ladies first.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u158	Mr President! First of all, the Minister for the Environment, Mr Mikkonen, says hello to these building regulations. These have been identified and the ministers have held a debate on this, and the idea is to harmonise the building regulations on accessibility, as an example of the first stage. With regard to this digitality: Maybe this is a theme of time, but even in Nordic cooperation, this has risen strongly, because only four years ago, this separate group of digital ministers, to which I have been allowed to belong, has been established. And last week we also discussed this issue with the EU Commissioner, that there would be no such gap between the EU's digital strategy and our Nordic cooperation and that cooperation would go well. And then the next Presidency, which Finland will be taking in next year, will be entitled: ‘The world’s most cross-border major digitalisation aid. “ In other words, this has been strongly taken into account for all of us, recognising the challenges which the representative is facing. Sentences on this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u159	Mr President! There were many questions here but there were also many good ideas on how to further develop this Nordic cooperation. I am now trying to answer as many questions as possible. However, I would like to start by saying, perhaps in such a general way, that this freedom of movement is an important cornerstone of this cooperation with the Nordic countries. This was the start of 51 when the Nordic Parliamentary Committee on Freedom of Movement met in Gothenburg, and it has been a prerequisite for developing this cooperation as far as we have been able to do. Then, quite rightly, in this House, Mr Judgments said that there was a need for strong political will. It is now not only in this new vision, which the Prime Ministers accepted, but also in our government programme. It is said that perhaps these smaller border barriers go through this border barrier council — there we are well represented by Kimmo Sasi, with whom I have also had discussions, and of course there is constant dialogue with Sweden and Norway — but for some of the larger border barriers, it is precisely this political will and the work and solutions that are needed at political level. It was accompanied by a representative and a representative. Sentences that Heinäcreated attention. Then, what Mr Kärnä asked me might be a good idea. Now, under the Danish Presidency, an experiment is being carried out to select certain EU legislation that cooperates more closely in order not to create these barriers. It is probably also in this domestic legislative work that this perspective could be introduced. I thought it was a good idea. At the same time, I would like to answer Mr Juuso's question about the implementation of these EU directives, that it is now being considered in the Council of Ministers and that we are trying not to create new barriers to borders. Then there were some good ideas: I encourage similar cooperation that has been achieved in the Kvarken region. The establishment of this EGTC area is, of course, a great achievement and an example for others. Then, to this question from the Estonians, do I believe that it will come into force: I believe, but that is not always enough. I'm also working on it. There are a lot of challenges here, but there is political will, and I understand that technically this would also be feasible. Of course, when there are intersectoral and five different countries and self-government regions still, there are many challenges here, but we are working to achieve that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u160	Let us now continue with these speeches of just over one minute. Let's take Mr. Ovaska.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u161	Mr President! The whole Chamber shares this idea — and many of us are just sitting in the Nordic Council — that in what way we try to reduce border barriers. But I have to say that there was a very comical situation in that Nordic Council at the end of January when my esteemed representative Lulu Ranne was elected Chairman of the Border Obstacle Working Group and, perhaps because of the fact-finding report, there was a great deal of feedback and amazement about the fact that ‘the main task of the Border Obstacles Working Group is to promote good Nordic cooperation and development’,but he also reiterated that ‘the barriers at the border to safeguard the safety of the inhabitants of the North’. How can we from this Finnish Parliament now pass on to our colleagues in the Nordic countries the information that Finland will continue to do everything in its power to reduce border barriers and not to do everything in its power to increase border barriers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u162	Well, now, Congressman Ranne, a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u163	Thank you, Your Honor. It is quite clear that all the Nordic countries agree that barriers that protect safety and health, for example, must remain at the borders. This is different. Among the issues we are dealing with in the Border Barriers Working Group is particularly important at the moment and at the next meetings, the Land Use and Construction Act, which is being reformed in Finland and directly linked to these building regulations and different standards. We have an enormous amount of work to do to remove such barriers to business and workers. It is strange that we should not talk about it here — as I said in my speech, we cannot talk about it here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u164	Ärade talman, Mr President! Det är valdigt glädjande att vi diskuterar Norden ox, och det är ju trots allt så att de är våra närmaste grannar och våra tankesätt är ganska nära varandra. Men för att Norden ska utvecklas till att bli världens mest integrale region bör det bli lättare för medbororganisationer och företag att verka i hela Norden. Ett steg mot tätare integration är att införa ett gemensamt elektroniskt ID, vilket också ledamot Autto är inne på.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u165	Mr President! Indeed, there are still border barriers, such as the possibility for medical students who have started their studies in Sweden in 2012 or after, for example, to carry out their legalisation training in mainland Finland. This is hindered by the fact that Valvira does not legalise persons who have completed their studies abroad who have started their studies since that date before this legalisation has first been carried out by the authority of the country of study. At the end of Sweden, only doctors who have studied in Sweden who have performed their entire allmäntjänstgöring service or at least its health centre section and psychiatry section in Sweden legalize Socialstyrelsen. If Valvira could, on a separate application, also act as a legal authority for these doctors who started their studies in or after 2012 in another EU or EEA country who have completed specific general medical training or equivalent training in Finland, the return of Swedish-speaking doctors from Sweden to Finland would be speeded up considerably, which would of course have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u166	Mr President! As a resident of the border, I, together with Mr Ojala-Niemelä, recognise these wishes and needs, which are precisely there on the Swedish, Finnish and Norwegian borders for people, and they relate to social and health care, i.e. access to social and health services across the border without having to use cash to pay. So if there is a planned treatment, it usually goes so that if you go across the border, you will have to pay for it first in cash and then apply for compensation in your own country, and it can take no matter how long, and this border traffic should also be facilitated in the case of rescue services. Now there is such a barrier that if we are going now to agree with Sweden, for example, on some of the advantages that apply only to Nordic citizens, we cannot do so because it is contrary to EU regulations. We must treat all EU citizens in the same way, and this prevents us from agreeing directly between the Swedish State and the Finnish State on certain advantages that would apply to us or to Nordic citizens — perhaps this could be done with Norway because Norway is not an EU country. I would ask you, Minister, to consider what are the measures we could use to agree on these benefits for the people of the Nordic countries without having to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u167	Mr President, värderade talman! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Blomqvist for his excellent speech and good answers. I would also like to point out from this memo by Kimmo Sas as a matter of principle and as a positive point that, with regard to the various building regulations, it has been pointed out in the Council that harmonisation could begin with the harmonisation of construction regulations for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u168	Mr President! When we talk about freedom of movement here, that means the free movement of people and goods, of course, and we have one thing that does not move freely between the Nordic countries: it is that snuff that can only be brought one kilo from Sweden to Finland. With this procedure, when no snoop is sold in Finland, we lose tens of millions of tax revenues and Sweden makes an account while we take care of the disadvantages. I would ask the Minister: would you, as Minister, be prepared to remove this border barrier or to promote the removal of this border barrier? The only way to do that is to bring snuff to stores in Finland. Then I would have asked Mr Rantee, the chairman of the Border Barriers Group, because you used an interesting choice of words: You said some of the border barriers were good. Now tell the Finnish people what are good border barriers — what are the good border barriers we currently have?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u169	Congressman Wrist, ready to go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u170	Thank you, Your Honor. I am sure we all understand that, for example, such inspections, as we currently have between Denmark and Sweden, can be felt by some people as unfortunate inspections. Similar checks are needed on the Finnish-Swedish border much more. To this I would like to point out that, once these checks have been carried out, they have originally been experienced and thought that a 20-minute inspection is an obstacle to the mobility of work, to the mobility of people, but the time has been reduced to a few minutes, when this has not even been seen as a problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u171	Representative Rydman was the first to want to answer this question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u172	Mr President! Still, I am a little surprised at this position of the Finns, which is also present on this matter. One of the main reasons why the Assembly could not agree was precisely that it called for the immediate introduction of internal border controls across Europe. When the situation is that people illegally seeking entry at the Turkish border into the EU are there to crash the border fence, this cannot at this stage justify the introduction of internal border controls a little across Europe. The situation would be different if we lived in a situation like 2015 when tens of thousands of people actually came through the Tornio. It would probably have been quite appropriate then to have considered substantially more drastic measures than those taken at the time, but we are not in such a situation. There are practically no asylum seekers crossing the border between Finland and Sweden at the moment — if at all — and if, in this situation, only because there is a situation in Greece, internal border controls are being introduced across Europe or, in particular, between Finland and Sweden, there is not even a strong supporter of such a strict immigration policy as in my eyes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u173	I will give you another response to this theme for the Judge-in-Office, and then we will go to the border barriers that...
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u174	Mr President! To Mr Kärnä, sniffing is not a problem between Finland and Sweden. If we were to remove the snus ban, which is not our concern, but a decision by the European Union, then there would be a barrier between Finland and Denmark and Finland and Norway. In other words, this is an EU provision. I believe that this is a well-founded provision, because I do not think that we should promote the use of tobacco or snuff in any way in Finland — it is also a public health issue. But I have been so liberal that I have always said that if Swedes want to poison themselves with snuff, let them have it, even if it is an exception from the EU, but we do not need to introduce the same exception here. I believe that this is a real Europeanism that we see that if a country has a national interest, an interest that does not hinder cooperation in the wider sense, we could allow it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u175	All right, there's a snoop for Mr. Kärnä and not for Mr. Rantee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u176	Mr President! I understand, of course, that we can quite rightly disagree with the benefits and disadvantages of snus, but I would have corrected to the Judge-in-Office that snus is being sold in Norway, as well. Denmark sells the exact same product under the heading of chewing tobacco. In Iceland, too, this product is in stores. There it is sold as a noseline, and then if you want to use it like a traditional snoop, you have to get some snoop paper and roll the snooze yourself into the lip then. So I can see that this is a clear border barrier,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u177	The Minister will be answering, but more questions will be asked. — Representative Hopsu has waited a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u178	Mr President! For Mr Kärnä's information, a very good debate was held here yesterday on how to reduce the use of snuff in Finland and not support this growth, and I am able to support Mrs Tuomioja's speech very well. The knowledge that the mobility and mobility of Finnish labour to Finland is lagging behind other Nordic countries is worrying, and further obstacles to mobility that have now been heard from the Finns of Finland are not needed. Let me return to the debate on digitalisation: the barriers to labour mobility are also linked to this. Currently, Finnish digital authentication methods cannot, for example, identify and log on to and visit the website of another Nordic authority. This makes it difficult to deal with tax matters in a significant way and in health care, as was heard. It was a pleasure to hear Minister Paatero's report on the progress of the digital identity, and I too am asking for a timetable for this. It was also a pleasure to hear that cooperation with Estonia in this sector is progressing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u179	Mr President! Indeed, Mrs Ranne thought that there were some good barriers to the border, and I cannot really come up with anything myself, and I do not think that Mrs Ranne could answer this question either. Although, in principle, the border is open between the Nordic countries, it is not easy for certain products, such as vehicles used in traffic, to move across the border in an appropriate way. Let me take an example: there is a maintenance company based in Haparanda and they operate in both northern Sweden and northern Finland. An employee can live on the Finnish side, for example in Tervola. When a vehicle registered in Sweden is not allowed to be used in Finland for more than three days in a continuous manner, for example, the worker may find himself in a practical situation where after a job at Tervola in Rovaniemi he will have to drive by home to Haparanna to take the car for the night to Haparanta and return home to Tervola with some other transportation. In this way, people are forced to travel hundreds of miles in their daily lives just like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u180	Mr President! I would like to ask the Minister one more thing — this is a border barrier, and I do not know if this has come to light anywhere — and this relates to the border crossings. In other words, the borderers have their own tax agreement, which means that the bordergoer pays taxes in his country of residence and gets paid in a clean hand from the country where he works. However, there is one problem in the tax decision that comes from the tax authority: it says that the tax on sickness allowance is 20% or 25%. This means that if you become ill for a long time and receive that sickness allowance, you will be taxed both in Sweden and Finland, i.e. you will pay double tax for the time you are sick, and then it may take up to a year and a half for the Swedish tax authority to get this back.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u181	Mr President! Thank you, Mrs Ranne, for your answer. In my opinion, this is not a government-opposition border, but precisely the way in which we all want to promote this Nordic cooperation. Perhaps it is also a matter of communication that in what way we can tell the other Nordic Council members that there is no need to worry, border barriers will be dismantled and common solutions will be sought further and thus also improved cooperation between all Nordic countries. So let us take care of communication and also see to it that this work continues with force, as it has continued until now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u182	Irade the Talman! Mobilitet är en av de viktigaste målsättningarna med nordiskt samarbete. Det har redan länge varit öjligt för oss i Finland att studera i Sverige och ta en högskoleutbildning i Sverige, och det är många som gör det. Frågan är då på vilket sätt man från de övriga nordiska länderna kunde flytta hit att studera, för vi behöver nog kunde också från andra länder hit till oss.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u183	Mr President! Here again, it is worth stressing that there is, in fact, a very broad consensus within the Finnish delegation of the Nordic Council and, more generally, among Nordic politicians that Nordic co-operation and co-operation offer Finland, especially in this time of the world, an asset and an arena that is also worth actively taking advantage of. We are living in times when we cannot be quite sure of the tenacity or depth of the transatlantic relationship. At least European integration has not taken any significant steps forward; one EU country has even left the Union. In many other respects, the unity of European countries has been tested. It is in such circumstances that the fact that we have one such group of countries, a reference group that we are able to work with like-minded countries and build unity and a well-integrated region, has both significant economic and political implications which are not to be underestimated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u184	And one more came from there, Congressman Strand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u185	Värderade Talman! Egentligen tog ledamot Rydman orden ur min mine. Han rain i princip allt det som jag hade tänkt avsluta med.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u186	Mr President! Again, there were good questions and points of view that I am now responding to in the order in my papers. It is precisely this recognition of professional qualifications that Mr Rydman gave an example of, and it has also been recognised by the Nordic Council of Ministers that this is a major barrier to finding solutions. This, of course, requires cooperation between all countries and cooperation between the ministries of education. Let me just say that I agree with Mr Rydman: work is being done on this, and this has been identified and has now also been raised to the political level of seeking solutions for this. Mr Juuso then continued to ask, among other things, about these EU directives, how to implement them. Of course, as an EU Member, it is clear to us that we are implementing the EU directives that come, but we are now looking at them and trying to implement them in the same way, that is to say to interpret them in the same way in these Nordic EU countries, that there will be no different interpretations, and that there will then be border barriers. This is now being sought during this Danish Presidency by means of an experiment such as this, which selects certain EU regulations and then cooperates more closely around them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-12-ps-22.u187	Thank you, Minister. There are no further speeches, so the debate is closed.
