ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u1	The third item in the order of business is oral Question Time. I would ask the ministers present to move to the ministerial box. I would also ask those representatives who wish to put a question to the Minister to register by pressing the P button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u2	Congressman Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u3	Mr President! The news we have been reading over the last few weeks about the drug deaths of young people and the events of the City Library Oodi is harsh but not surprising. Finland has a real drug problem and drug use has increased exponentially. Last year, more people died from drugs in Finland than ever before. Drugs kill young people the most, and children also die of drugs. The increased use of drugs in schools also causes anxiety and insecurity. Teachers feel that they have been left alone with a drug problem. Finland's current drug strategy was drawn up in 1997. Since then, huge changes have taken place in the drug situation in Finland and in the drug environment, which require urgent attention. Mr Pekonen, what is the timetable for the government to update the drugs strategy to meet today's challenges, and in what way will the policy decision on drugs mentioned in the Government Programme reduce the use of drugs?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u4	And Minister Kiuru will raise his hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u5	Mr President! Indeed, in our cooperation with Mr Pekonen, this is my responsibility. Firstly, the Government Programme negotiations have committed themselves to doing more to this phenomenon together, seeking a vision that will also bear on the coming years. It must be said that, in the case of children and young people, Mrs Niikko will be able to take a stand. Yes, the world has changed so much that we cannot even imagine what it really is today in this Parliament. I take very seriously your wish that we should be able to do better here. I would like to say that we are going to make changes to substance abuse legislation and we are going to seek answers to these questions with a clearly more strategic approach, but the first and important thing is that I have also called together the players involved in substance abuse work now so that we can already see, in the context of the reform of social welfare and health care, content and structure, whether we should:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u6	I would ask those Members who wish to ask further questions on this subject to register by pressing the V button and standing up.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u7	Mr President! Minister Ohio, you have said that the Greens are in favour of a moratorium on the use of drugs, including allowing the use of hard drugs. [Right : Ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u11	Mr Henriksson wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u12	Mr President! There is not a word in the government programme of this government about decriminalising the use of cannabis, for example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u15	Mr President! Trafficking in drugs, especially in Helsinki, has exploded in the hands. It is not unusual to see a completely open pill and other shop in the city center, Hakaniemi, Sörnäinen and, for example, East Helsinki. Substances are offered to very young people. The so-called 'euro pills' and other substances are often traded in the country by the citizens of Eastern Europe, thanks to the free movement of the EU. According to the police, the activities are run from Romania, the pills are bought from Hungary and they come to Finland through Tornio, for example. The police are often powerless, the resources are simply not enough to tackle this type of crime. A few days of power surges won't help. I ask the government: what are you going to do to eradicate drug trafficking that is rampant and seriously disrupting our streets?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u16	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Purra, for a good question. In Finland, there is strong cooperation between the police, Customs and Raja. This PTR cooperation has been working for years and is very effective, but it will not happen without sufficient resources. We have also discussed this issue together in the Administrative Committee that the field of Finnish security authorities is largely poorly resourced. If compared to Sweden alone, the number of police officers is very small in relation to the population. This is what the government has already taken up in its programme; it increases the budget of the police every year. The increase in appropriations for this year has also been targeted, among other things, at preventive action, which is precisely what is at a very early stage of intervention. Of course, the fight against organised crime is a major European challenge. In this, Finland is not alone, but, in good cooperation with Europol, we are constantly exchanging information between the Member States, and there are many not only European cooperation but also bilateral cooperation. Among other things, as an opening, I have suggested that cooperation between police forces across borders must also be strengthened at the northern border.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u17	Mr President! As has already been pointed out here, a programme for harm reduction has been included in the government programme on drug-related crime. On Christmas holidays, I read the book "Golden calf" about organized crime. Already in the 1990s, Finland's prisons have been talking about so-called humane substance abuse policy and harm-reducing substance abuse policy, in which criminal organisations want to be involved. Are the government's ministers aware that organised crime is also involved when it comes to legalising matters so that they can be involved in legal trade? And is it not the role of society to try to reduce use?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u19	Mr President! It is indeed the case that organised crime does much harm to our society and much harm to the world at large. As far as prisons are concerned, attempts are being made to ensure that drugs do not enter the prisons. Much has also been done to this end within Rise to improve prison security. I myself have also thought, when I have visited other prisons in the world, that there may be a situation in front of us too, that in the future we will have to check people who go out and enter the prison every day, including those who work there, in a different way than perhaps today. Organised crime is a very serious matter, and we must also try to tackle it as well as possible together. Here too there is a need for cross-border cooperation, and that is also the case with the police.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u20	Mr President! A secure Finland does not mean that the police resources alone are being improved. The whole chain must be in order: police, emergency services, prosecutors, courts and prison services. Additional funding has been provided to prosecutors in the Government Programme. I have asked the Minister of Justice in a public hearing whether that additional funding will go to the rising rent and ict costs or to the hiring of persons. You replied that wage expenditure would go from one item to another, so the additional funding would be fully paid by the staff. However, the number of prosecutors has now decreased by 20. How is this the case now? I would like to ask the Minister of the Interior this same question. Will additional police funding actually be spent on rising rent and ict costs and not on staff salaries? Are the practices of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior different in terms of spending money and various items? Is it the case that the numbers of policemen and prosecutors will actually decrease and not increase?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u21	Mr President! The draft budget for 2020 shows that: This year, the number of prosecutors' staff is 14 higher than in the draft budget for the last year. This is in the yellow book, which also belongs to the representative. The financial situation of the Public Prosecutor's Office has been confirmed by the increase in appropriations and budgetary allocation decisions agreed in the Government Programme. This is a clear improvement and a change of direction for the past. The fact that: However, the number of person-years worked by the Public Prosecutor's Office falls this year from the estimate of last year's execution, due to the fact that: In contrast to the draft budget and the performance agreement, the Prosecutors' Office has used appropriations last year to recruit prosecutors. But the reality is that more money is being spent now than before.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u22	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for a good question. So far, it has been a long time since the resource that we have been able to increase, even on the police side, has really poured into these ict projects and premises. The Government Programme has committed itself to healthy and safe working and operating facilities in all sectors and, of course, we should not have any indoor air problems in the state administration. We already know that people have fallen ill, including serious examples of this in Oulu. This year, from last autumn's budget, which we decided in the autumn, about 60 to 80 man-years have become more for the police and, as I mentioned, some of this increase has been put here for preventive work, and more people have just been recruited to the police in every institution. This is the path we will continue in the government. Of course, the risk is that when police equipment, Raja’s equipment and premises come to an end,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u23	Mr President! In Finland, unfortunately, we are underestimated by the drug problem, and even there there are ministers in the ranks of the government, who have always expressed quite permissive views about cannabis, among other things. [Department :Thursday! — Government line! — Shocking!]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u24	Mr President! I would first like to say out loud that no one in this line, no minister, has in any way underestimated the drug problem in Finland or in any way underestimated the problem and tragedy of the drug deaths of these young people. The statements made by certain ministers in relation to the positions of their own parties have not in any way been related to the authorisation of drugs, [ Intermediate Calls on the People’s People’s Group]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u25	Mr President! As a former substance abuser, who has been working for nearly 20 years, I am very pleased that everyone here is concerned about our growing drug problem.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u28	Mr President! You are quite right, representative, that it is important that these people also receive that treatment in prisons, and that is what they are getting today, but of course there is always room for improvement. But the government wants to invest in this, and fortunately, we now have a situation where the government has also granted it and Parliament has in a way blessed it, an appropriation for people who have committed a crime once.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u29	Mr President! Thank you to the representative for the very important observation that treatment must be put at the heart of all of this. Man must get away [Sari Sarkomaa’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u30	Mr President! Drugs and drugs are available for children and young people every day. They're found in Snapchat, My Story, where there's an open drug trade. They're already selling drugs to little elementary school kids. ‘Do you buy? “ ask around schools, train stations, parks are surrounded by these merchants, between 16 and 19 years of age. They switch places, move around in different areas and ask who would buy and what. Anxiety and anxiety are being treated with various drugs and drugs that are readily available today. The cycle deepens, it gets out of hand, and then the situation has exploded. ADHD and concentration disorders bother a number of young people, but they are unable to reach the help, they are unable to get to the doctor. What do you do about young people taking these benzos and taking drugs, actually getting to the doctor's office to tell them about their problems?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u31	Mr President! This connection you just described is real. Many young people who are exhausted become stressed, may be distressed — either as mental problems, mental disorders or, at least, as symptoms, but may also manifest themselves in a risky way in substance abuse policy. A young person may become addicted after one experiment, and solutions must be found in both substance abuse policy and mental health work. Much has already been said in the Chamber about how to put the low end of schools in order so that children and young people have a very low threshold to ask an adult for help in both of these problems. However, our big challenge in society is that when you look at both adults and children, you also have to say that our threshold is sometimes too high. At worst, it is an economic threshold which does not necessarily allow municipalities to direct access to treatment, and this is, in my opinion, an economic threshold.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u32	Mr President! Firstly, I would like to thank the government for what has also been said in this debate that this government is not reducing access to drugs or drug policy. And for that, thank you. But then I will go to the same point that has already been made here that it is, in fact, important for us children and young people that we are able to prevent those new drug users from coming. In other words, we need to be able to provide preventive support even as a child, perhaps through family counselling and counselling, and then through school, early childhood education and basic education that no new users will be born. But then I would like to ask Minister Kiuru, when the government is launching this future centre for social services, that what practical measures are there to take, among other things, on the issue of drug and drug policy and preventive action for children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u33	Mr President! I must thank the chairman of the committee: you are on the map as much as you can and can be. So I'm happy about that. I forgot, and yes, the question of the chairman of the committee is important. We also need to be able to recognise in the work of the current health centre that substance abuse services must be provided, that mental health services must be provided, and in this respect the extension of substance abuse services to the front line of the health centre in the future is now more of a rule than an exception. It is an exception at the moment, and we need to put this right. This must show in the structures that we have drug abuse services there at a low threshold. Your second question was precisely what is done better in schools. We have invested a great deal in preventive work. There these everyday experts, our social and health workers, have not ignored. Yes, the need for services is urgent, and it should also be clearly extended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u34	Mr President! There are many ways in which we are at the heart of the matter, so we know from Finland how, for example, alcohol is often used as a self-medicating substance when it comes to serious mental problems, mental health problems, nausea. The same can be seen with regard to young people’s use of drugs. That is why the efforts now being made to strengthen student and student care in schools are extremely important. Further funding has been allocated by the government during this parliamentary term, and it has also been agreed that binding dimensions should be drawn up with the aim of strengthening the territorial availability and equality of these services, because at the moment regional differences are very significant. We need to make this care chain of mental health services for children and young people work better, even after school and outside school — how our student and student care professionals can guide those young people who need more help and support and service,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u35	Mr President! Last year, 261 people died of drugs in Finland, most of them young people. They are enormous tragedies for their loved ones and families. And what is the answer of government ministers to this question? The three central government ministers, the ministers responsible for education, safety, social welfare and health care, keep pro-drug statements in the public eye.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u36	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u37	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u40	Mr President! As has been said here, this government is not decriminalising drug policy, it is not reducing drug law. That is the position of the government. And of the actions that the ministers have been telling us about in their own portfolios and for their part — I can add, for example, that Customs' operational resources have been increased to 3.3 million for this year in the context of modern technology, that there will be a better catch-up at the border of all the inappropriate goods and illegality there is. Police funds have been increased, and also social and health services, all the services that have been covered here — for example, to improve the conditions for young people to engage in sports activities, so that no one would even take a path like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u42	Now there is just one question on this subject and it is put by the author of the subject, Mr Niikko.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u43	Mr President! This is a subject that we share. We in Parliament must do everything we can to protect our children from drug abuse and substance abuse, and we still have a lot to do. We in this Parliament have even discussed such questions as pregnant mothers who use drugs. They are not allowed to undergo forced treatment, and there are many reasons why this kind of legislation has not been made. And then there's the drug abuse of children under 18 years of age, they're not going to be put into forced treatment either. Ironically, if they do not go to school, they will be admitted to the institution — because they do not attend school — but drug use is not yet such a risk, for some reason. Let me ask you a few questions from the ministers: Minister Henriksson, I am grateful that you are increasing resources to bring those who are released from prison back to their everyday lives and to reduce their intoxicant abuse. However, could you consider — and I myself have been working with those who have been released for more than a decade — that, when the organisations are better able to do this than the municipalities, you would direct it to the organisations of the money? They are able, on a 24/7 basis, to support each other on a peer-to-peer basis. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u44	And now Minister Kiuru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u45	Mr President! Here, when these actions have been presented, various tasks are ahead. And also, with this representative Nikon's wish for better treatment, it is quite clear that this can no longer happen like it is today. In that regard, I have also invited organisations and others to discuss what we should do to improve the effectiveness of treatment and to improve access to treatment and access to it, in the name of this round table.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u47	This issue has now been closed and we will move on to the next item.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u48	Congressman Sankelo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u49	Mr President! The prime ministers are currently negotiating in Brussels on the EU budget for the coming years. Finland has a lot at stake in the negotiations. The Coalition Party supports Finnish farmers. We also want to support the negotiations, but we expect the government to be able to defend Finland's interests. According to publicly available data, EUR 310 million of Finland’s agricultural and rural development funds would be leaving.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u50	Mr President! Thank you for the important question. Just as Mr Sankelo says, the Prime Minister is currently negotiating for Finland a future EU Multiannual Financial Framework. Perhaps yesterday the representatives noticed that when the Prime Minister met Chancellor Merkel, he spoke very clearly about Finland's objectives at the press conference. One of the key objectives for us is agriculture, the Rural Development Fund and the pillar two, which is very important for Finland. Of course, public debate on public information is taking place, but Finland's position is that we want, one of the most important things for us, is that there will also be clean food production in this country, self-sufficient cultivation, and that is why it is one of Finland's top objectives in the negotiations in which the Prime Minister is currently in. And of course, if he did not succeed in doing so, we too in the Government Programme will be compensated nationally for the losses that might come. But we wish the Prime Minister every success in the negotiations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u51	Mr President! Indeed, the Government Programme states that ‘where appropriate, the future support period of the EU’s common Good government! In politics, things are important. However, really important things are those for which the money is actually earmarked for programmes and budgets. The Government, according to what you have just said, wants to secure the livelihood of a Finnish farmer and the supply of clean domestic food.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u52	Mr President! The Finnish line, which Mr Kulmuni, the Minister for Finance, mentioned just now, is the same line as the one that was driven last season, where the Coalition Party was also involved. It's the exact same line.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u55	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u56	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u58	The Christian Democrats had also announced agricultural subsidies as their subject. — — — — Congressman Räsänen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u59	Mr President! Finnish agriculture has undergone a radical restructuring in the last twenty years. The European Union's common agricultural policy has brought with it a lot of bureaucracy and larger size. Although the EU has a common agricultural policy, it has no common food security and domestic food production remains important not only from the point of view of quality and safety, but also from the point of view of security of supply. The profitability of agriculture has continued to deteriorate. Farmers have an average hourly salary of EUR 5 40 cents, and quite a few farmers work at the extreme limits of their survival. Possible surgeries would be a significant additional burden. So I ask you, Minister of Agriculture: what is the government doing to turn the incomes of farmers into a growth path?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u60	Mr President! I can agree with all of those points made in your question on the agricultural situation, Mr Räsänen. As far as profitability is concerned, it is weak, it has been weak for the last ten years. So what has the government done? First of all, we fixed all the aid breaks that threatened to come to agriculture this year — all the subsidies have been closed down. In addition, we also capitalised the Agricultural Development Fund Makera, where it is possible to make the future investments that will also improve profitability. But the most important thing is that our food market should operate more fairly. It will solve the sustainable profitability that we absolutely want — probably the whole Chamber wants it for agriculture. It is a question of security of supply, it is a question of our future, it is also a huge opportunity for sustainable food production that is promoted and represented by Finnish agriculture. That is why we have been working on the functioning of the market for the last period — the Food Markets Act,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u61	Now I am really asking those representatives who want to ask further questions on this subject to press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u62	Mr President! In addition to agriculture, we must also be concerned about the productivity of our work in general. In the last 20 years, Europe has left a great deal of competitive continents — North America, Asia — in terms of productivity. It may be that we have not been as successful in the digital single market as we can and that new companies in the platform economy — googles, facebooks, amazons, alibis — are everywhere in Europe. I would now like to ask the Minister: what are the elements in this next financial framework, in which we are going to catch up with this head start? Now this is an economic policy issue, but when the next technological wave comes, artificial intelligence, then this will turn into a whole security and foreign policy issue, so what are the elements with which we are now going to get a productivity leap?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u63	Mr President! Thank you for your question. It is, of course, true that Europe, for example by the previous Commissioner, Mrs Katainen, has raised the issue of how Europe and the EU will cope in the face of increased competition, on the one hand, and protectionism from the United States on the other. China has played with rules quite different from those we are used to in Europe. So, yes, there are a great many things in this multiannual financial framework that are aimed at creating new growth, strengthening the internal market, their digitalisation, as you mentioned. And, of course, for Finland, it is essential that Finland manages and succeeds in cohesion funding. We have been able to use it on issues that promote productivity and growth throughout this country, for example the Erasmus+ programme. And all in all, if you look at the Green Deal programme, what else is there to achieve besides improving productivity and competitiveness and, at the same time, responding to climate change?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u64	Mr President! Right now, in Brussels, we are negotiating fate issues for Finland: what will happen to Finnish agriculture in the future and rural areas in general? Finland has been a net contributor to the EU for years. The EU's common agricultural policy also dictates aid decisions. Of course we'll try something back. Finland is one of the so-called second pillar countries, and therefore severe cuts are coming, largely on the basis of the climate objectives that Finland, as the country holding the presidency, has made spectacular points, but not a word about the situation in our agriculture. It must be borne in mind that agricultural aid also supports the price of food, that it would be cheaper for us consumers to have antibiotic-free, ethically, animal welfare food. Ladies and gentlemen, what can we expect from these negotiations? We Finns want to fight for Finnish farmers and Finnish agriculture and rural areas. Is this where you're going to be straight and settle for food production to be depleted?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u65	Mr President! If the opposition is concerned about a domestic farmer, then I recommend that you support the government, [Heckling] As we have seen from the media, the Prime Minister represents Finland very well there at the moment and negotiates that there will be clean food production in this country in the future. Since the government is prepared for all kinds of situations, even if the outcome of the negotiations may not be as good as we expect,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u66	Mr President! On this point, I fully agree with Mrs Elomaa that Finnish quality production, antibiotic resistance, minimal use of pesticides, good animal disease status and so on are competitive factors for us. This is one thing where the market is not working. We are not currently getting the price that it costs to produce it on the market. That is why the functioning of the market and its attention to it are extremely important. Then there is something I do not agree with at all. You say that Finland did not present the second pillar as a presidency. Yes, they did. That was exactly our thing: Pillar Two.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u67	Mr President! Last autumn, when Finland was the EU Presidency, the coalition politicians criticised the government for overemphasizing agriculture in the EU's financial framework negotiations. [Central :ohhh! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u68	Mr. Speaker! It is quite clear that when we talk about land use, we always talk about climate and environmental measures. We have both agriculture and forestry that are sustainable and we want them to be even more sustainable. We have good records of it in the Government Programme, and according to it we also operate from different quarters. Let me take one example: 90% of Finnish farmers have committed themselves to the environmental compensation scheme for the current programming period — 90%. There are very strict regulations on what needs to be done in order to meet those conditions, and that is also what is being paid for. Now it is part of the European Union and the Commission's proposal to reduce it. That is exactly what we cannot accept. We cannot accept it — much as Mr Hassi has said here that a farmer must not be left alone. Of course not. Prosperous agriculture and sensible, wise, effective, effective climate action go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u69	Mr President! I can assure Mr Hassi that the coalition has held the side of the Finnish farmer both in previous EU negotiations and in the activities of this Parliament. Mr President! The Coalition Party supports and hopes for new investments and new jobs in Finland. These jobs have been promised by the Finnish forest industry, for example, to Kemi, Kemijärvi and many other locations where investment is expected. Jobs would be more than important for the whole country. Now that the EU plans, this great Green Deal programme, are also flashing the reform of the EU forestry strategy, this will be a vital question for Finland that forestry policy will remain in national hands in the future. Mr President, when the government's responses to the EU negotiations have been flouted, can the government, however, assure us that even forestry policy remains in Finnish hands and that these investments can be carried forward safely?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u70	Mr President! In the government's replies, our natural resource sector, our agriculture, our forest sector has no form of fragility. We have a completely uniform line, and that line is very similar to it during the last parliamentary term. [Heckling]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u71	Mr President! The aim of our agricultural and food policy has been and must continue to be to guarantee national food security and good nutrition. Minister Leppä spoke about the poor profitability of agriculture, which has been going on for ten years. It has not only been weak, it has been catastrophically weak. This has led to an agricultural indebtedness ratio of around 90% today. Therefore, Finland cannot afford and Finland should not accept a significant cut in agricultural yields. What will happen if agricultural subsidies, EU agricultural subsidies, fall by 300 million? What then if this negotiating strategy chosen by the government leads to the pushing or exporting of agriculture and the forestry industry to countries whose climate action and practices lag far behind us?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u72	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u73	Mr President! I wonder if you have now listened to what the government has tried to answer here. Our main objectives in the negotiations in which the Prime Minister is currently representing this country are that Finland secures the financing of agriculture. We have even gone through the second pillar of the countryside in more detail. Minister of Agriculture Leppä has just announced the preparation of the forestry strategy, and the Government has also, through its own actions, done such measures to create a good and safe environment for Finnish industry. And if you look at the issues related to forests, of course the central point for Finland as a forested country is that you know what you can do about it in the rest of Europe, and how you can process it up to the laboratories so that we can replace plastic with domestic wood-based raw materials in the future, so that this government also has a very patriotic policy in the negotiations that the Prime Minister is currently in.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u75	Next item and question, Mr Harkimo.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u76	Mr President! Minister Haatainen, the government is always talking about work-related immigration, and their top project is to get highly educated people to work in Finland. This week I went to the Finnish Immigration Service and asked how long are the times when these work permits are being processed? I was told that four months is the minimum, but it will not be possible, and today it will take six months. Why is this so? This is due to a lack of resources. There's 10 million euros missing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u77	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u78	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u79	Mr President! Mr Harkimo raises a very important issue in which the government is now looking vigorously for measures: how can we shorten these excessively long working permit processing periods? Those are unreasonable times. The goal is one month. It will be difficult to get any shorter if things are done in an appropriate way. The central objective of the government is now to clarify this administration. The Ministry of Employment and the Economy has now set up a unit for work-related immigration, and this is how we will now guide this process. It involves the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it involves the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, and together we are now going through, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy under my leadership, all the legal and practical problems, every stone and stump is going through, which is slowing down. And this system will now be speeded up in such a way that the legislative
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u80	Next item, next question, Ledamot Löfström.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u81	Ärade Herr Talman! Damlejonens VM-final i fjol sågs av 1.5 million TV titre. Ändå säknas finsk damishockey på VM-nivå inte som en sport av samhällellig betydelse enligt statsrådets förordning. Samma sak gäller fotbollen. Däremot räknas slutspel i fotbolls-EM och -VM samt ishockey-VM som sådan och garanteras en plats i alla finländares tv-rutor. Mästerskap för damer daremot kan placeras bakom tv-kanlernas betalmurar, viiket inte är rättvist.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u82	Mr President, värderade Herr Talman! En berättgad och viktig fråga, inte minst sett ur ett jämställdhetsperpektiv, och jag tycker det är bra att vi diskuterar den arv frågan också ai i riksdagen. Samtidigt är det på sin plats att konstatera också att den ärordningen hör till minister Harakkas ansvarsområde, så jag håller mig på ett mera allmänt plan.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u83	Mr President! Here we really must thank Yle for what they did for women's football and for the equality of sport in general. That's what I want to thank you for. After all, this became a phenomenon of how women's football was monitored and commented on, and it certainly raised all of us's ideas about how high the level of women's football is. But so it is heard in about every species, so this is very much dependent on how we think and how the media treats these different species. In the Ministry of Education and Culture, of course, we can use funding to address this, and we have new grant and financing criteria to be completed, for example for organisations, which will take gender equality and equality into account even more precisely from the beginning of next year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u84	Then we'll change the subject and the questioner again. — — — — Congressman Myllykoski.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u85	Mr President! Finland has nested itself against fair competition from companies and a cancer of employees' pay security. It's called underpaid. Over the years, Finland has dozens of underpaid jobs, as stated by the authorities. We remember the case of Polish electricians and that in some restaurants chefs work between 250 and 300 hours a month for 1800 euros a month. We have found that this fraud is being committed to a great extent. Now that there are records in the government programme that these measures can be taken, I dare to ask the government: will we be able to initiate the criminalisation of the underpaid wage which prevents fair competition and undermines the position of workers?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u86	Representative Myllykoski points out a phenomenon which is certainly not in anyone's interest, not in the interests of the employee, but it is not in the interests of companies, the interests of those who wish to operate under the rules of the Finnish legislation and collective agreements. The problem with this underpaid payment is that it is quite easy to circumvent the minimum wage set by these collective agreements and the resulting sanctions are minimal. Now there are clear records in the Government Programme that we are looking for ways, for example, to use administrative sanctions to address this kind of deliberate or gross negligence in the area of underpaid employment. We now have a working group on this matter. We're going through this and we're going to find some ways to work together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u87	Mr President! A very important question, and it is very important that you also pay attention to the fact that today we actually have entrepreneurs in this country who exploit other people quite grossly. The worst cases may be trafficking in human beings, and all such entrepreneurs must be combated. We need honest entrepreneurs in Finland, we need to support them and we need to get more of them, but this is exactly what we must fight together. After all, serious forms of underpaid employment have already been criminalised in criminal law, such as labour discrimination, labour discrimination such as railing, and then even trafficking in human beings can be involved. Of course, it is important that we then have the resources of the authorities and the police to investigate these cases in such a way that they arise. And, as Minister Haatainen has pointed out, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy is now investigating the use of these administrative sanctions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u88	The fourth item in the order of business is the election of Sitra’s Board of Directors. I would like to say that the election is unanimous and that Parliament elects the representatives listed in the multiplicity distributed to the representatives as members of the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u89	The 5th issue of the agenda is the topical debate on the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Finland. The topical and urgent debate will be opened by the first signatory of the debate initiative, Merja Mäkisalo-Ropponen, with a ten-minute speech. Mrs Kiuru, Minister for Family and Basic Services, will take the floor for 5 minutes. I will then give you the answers I have considered, either 1 or 2 minutes. Answers are reserved using the V button. A total of 1.5 hours will be reserved for this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u90	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! In June 2016, Finland has ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which aims to guarantee people with disabilities fully and equally all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote respect for the dignity of persons with disabilities. Ratification of the Convention means that it must be respected as a law. The Convention imposes an obligation on States Parties to fully implement the equality of persons with disabilities. The scope of the agreement is wide, covering all areas of life. The Convention obliges all State actors, such as public authorities and other bodies exercising public authority. The agreement also obliges people with disabilities to take account of their specific needs and to ensure that people with disabilities have the same opportunities for participation in society as everyone else. It is also the rights of disabled people to decide on matters concerning them. Every disabled person can make decisions about himself, although some may need support in the form of supported decision-making. Under the disability pact, disabled persons include those with long-term physical, mental, intellectual or sensory disabilities that can prevent full and effective participation in society on an equal footing with others. In other words, a disabled person is a person who, due to a disability or illness, has a long-term special difficulty in performing normal life activities. The definition focuses on long-term and specificity. Memory diseases, for example, are neurological disability diseases, and a memory illness should also be entitled to services under the Disability Services Act. The aim of the Disability Pact is to guarantee people with disabilities an independent life and inclusion in the community. In practice, the realisation of a self-like life may require, for example, the right to an interpretation service, a personal assistant and a transport service. The disability service is not an additional service or discretionary benefits, but a legal guarantee of the right to equal participation in society. These services ensure that disabled persons can live on an equal footing with others, work and earn money, and participate in hobbies and events and events of their choice. The rights of people with disabilities are not questions of opinion but human rights. Unfortunately, problems continue to arise in all these areas, and therefore the reform of the pending legislation on disability must aim at increasing equality, independence and inclusion in society for people with disabilities. The entries in the Act must be so clear that it is possible to avoid a typical situation at the moment where disabled people living in different parts of Finland receive services for them in quite different ways because of differences in interpretation. Accessibility and accessibility of services are key prerequisites for the realisation of the rights of people with disabilities and for ensuring equality. The Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has stated that Finland is still largely inaccessible and built for people with disabilities. A barrier environment discriminates against disabled people. Accessibility means both the absence of structural barriers and a non-discriminatory climate. Accessibility is not just about accessibility. It also takes into account issues such as vision, consultation, communication and electronic communication. Accessibility refers to online services, applications and publications, usability of tools and understanding of information. Accessibility also means issues related to interaction and access to information. Interpreting services, Braille and plain language, for example, are of paramount importance here. Mr President! The Disability Forum has studied in a survey how the rights of people with disabilities are implemented in Finland. The results of the survey show in a harsh way that rights, assessed by the disabled themselves, are in some respects even poorly or very badly realised. According to the survey, accessibility problems have been experienced in areas such as public spaces, streets and parks. Nearly 30% of respondents experienced accessibility problems quite often or continuously in information and communication. There are most shortcomings in text-based government communication and emergency communication. More than half of the respondents had experienced shortcomings in access to information and proper treatment, e.g. at school and in studies, social services and working life. It is also worrying that it is commonplace for many disabled people or people with malformations to be subjected to abusive practices. The more visible the difference, the more likely it is to be a wink. Based on an extensive online survey conducted by the Disability Forum, bad behaviour towards disabled people has become even more widespread. Of the approximately 1500 respondents to the questionnaire, almost half felt that respect for the dignity of people with disabilities has decreased over the past two years. Degrading or degrading treatment was quite often or often reported having experienced nearly one third of the respondents, and about a quarter of them even have been questioned about their right to life. Mr President! It is extremely regrettable that people with disabilities are subjected to prejudice, discrimination and exclusion. Persons with disabilities may be denied the right to education, health care and social participation only on the basis of their disability. Even the right to one’s own home may be denied, as the citizens’ initiative “Not for Sale ” did well. Because of repeated competitions, some people with disabilities are reluctant to move from their home and at the same time break off many important relationships. The Parliamentary Ombudsman has also repeatedly identified problems in the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities, such as the limitation of fundamental rights in the special care of persons with disabilities, shortcomings in the preparation of service plans, restrictions on access to statutory services, delays and procedural errors in decision-making and handling, and a lack of accessibility and accessibility of premises. Mr President! If the government is to achieve the employment objective, more attention must also be paid to the employment of people with disabilities. Among other things, the Non-Discrimination Ombudsman has found that disabled people experience a lot of discrimination in recruitment situations. The Government Programme talks a lot about the employment potential of people with part-time disabilities. However, it is important to remember that not all people with disabilities are part-time. There are people who are able to work full-time, for example, if reasonable adjustments have been properly managed. According to the reports, employers are not sufficiently aware that they have access to so-called organisational support for the implementation of reasonable adjustments. In the Government Programme, more employees are promised to the TE Offices, and it should now be ensured that there are also persons specialised in specific employment issues for different groups of people with disabilities. Of course, people with disabilities also have part-time workers, and they too should remember that all people should have the right to participate in economic activities, to work and to feel that their input is relevant and beneficial to society. Experience of meaning also requires that you receive a salary for your work. For example, in the case of mentally disabled people, there is much to correct. On the other hand, it is good to remember that people with part-time skills can also be excellent and possess special skills that no one else in the working community has. Mr President! So what can we do to improve the rights of people with disabilities? The Government Programme has put a strong emphasis on correcting the current situation. Timeliness and individual service needs are specific challenges for disability services. These challenges must be taken into account in the reform of the Disability Services Act. At the same time, people with disabilities' own voice is better heard through organisations, for example. However, in order to improve the rights of people with disabilities, a government programme or legislation alone is not enough. Changes must be made in the attitudes and will mode of society as a whole. The most severe injury is an attitudeal injury. Even in early childhood education and schools, human rights must be made more aware of the dignity of people with disabilities. Civil servants and business representatives must also be trained on the rights of people with disabilities. The provisions of the UN CRPD require that persons with disabilities be involved in the planning and decision-making of matters relating to them in all matters relating to the disabled. This also means better use of the Disability Council and experts. What is important is that disabled people are not treated as a single group, but that they are able to create services and paths suitable for their life situation, listening to them and respecting their opinions. Mr President! At the end of the day: The new Advisory Board on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities began its work on 1.9.2019. The mission of the Advisory Board is to coordinate the UN Disability Pact in Finland. I look forward to this work and I hope that the Advisory Board will be able to speed up the implementation of the rights of people with disabilities. If there is no immediate improvement in the situation, it is even worth considering the creation of a post of Ombudsman for the disabled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u91	Thank you, and then Minister Kiuru, five minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u92	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors of the initiative for this opportunity to discuss the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Finland. In particular, I appreciate the broad thrust of the discussion initiative on the subject. The rights of people with disabilities are not just about services or transfers of income; it is precisely, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said here, about the implementation of human rights, about the possibility of living a full-time and full-time life in accordance with their abilities and interests. Kalle Könkkölä, the father and major influence of the Finnish Disability Movement, has said: ‘life is a life-saver when life has a purpose’. In my view, this is a good illustration of what the rights of people with disabilities and human rights aim at more broadly. Finland ratified the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 10. The President Without implementation, however, the international agreement is nothing more than paper. Fortunately, much has already been done to implement the agreement. The necessary structures have been put in place for the implementation and follow-up of the agreement: the Human Rights Centre in connection with the Parliamentary Ombudsman's Office and the Human Rights Committee for Persons with Disabilities. In addition, by decree of the Government, the Advisory Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (VANE) was established for the purpose of coordinating and completing the agreement with the State. An operational programme for the current period is currently being drawn up in VANE and will be completed in 2020. I've also been allowed to be with the elderly to think about things together. The process is cross-administrative and involves all key ministries. A significant inclusion-related change was made in 2017, when municipal disability councils were legalised. In addition, all structures and programmes are being prepared on the basis of a strong UN agreement on the ‘None of us’ principle. It states that people with disabilities are involved in the decision-making process that concerns them. People with disabilities and organisations with disabilities are also exemplary in this respect, and this has already been noted by the sitting government. I am pleased that there is a strong will to be involved in our own affairs, and that is something we respect. So the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has been ratified and we have structures to monitor its compliance, but the key question is: is everything all right? Unfortunately, the answer is unambiguously: no. There is still a great deal of work to be done to ensure that the equal right of all to participate in society is realised. However, as a government as a whole, we are committed to making the necessary reforms to improve the situation. During this government, it has already been decided that disability legislation will be reformed after the decisions of the social engineering solution, that personal budgeting pilot projects will be carried out, that people with disabilities will be involved in the preparation of the social services themselves, and that the needs of people with disabilities will also be taken into account in this preparation. The work is already well under way. The legislation on customer fees will be reformed and disability services will remain free of charge. Customer fees can also be moderated and not collected. The Non-Discrimination Act will undergo part-reform, continue to strengthen local authorities’ competitive competence, lay down national legislation in accordance with the Accessibility Directive, and strengthen the implementation of accessibility legislation. Strong investment will also be made in the employment of people with disabilities by dismantling structural barriers to employment and ensuring the functioning of the disability services required for employment. Complete the so-called self-determination law, which has been awaited for years. The right of self-determination will be strengthened and the legislation on restrictive measures will be further specified. In addition, the regulation of taxi transport will be corrected. So here are just a few examples of what is to come. In all of this, it is essential that the lives of people with disabilities are not improved only by improving disability legislation. Instead of a long-term cutline, Finland is currently investing in basic security, improving social and health services and a more equal society. These are big Government Programme goals, one of which we in the government have set out. And this work will also benefit all Finns. As an individual issue, I am sure that the greatest expectations relate to the reform of the legislation on disability services, and I say that this reform will be brought before Parliament. Last time it expired in February 2019. In other respects, we will go over the details here then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u93	Let's start going through these details in the form of a debat. One minute, but not as fast as the last minute of Question Time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u94	Mr President! When a disabled or seriously ill child is born into a family, the family begins with a family care situation lasting for years, which will revolutionise the family’s life situation in many ways. The situation is already difficult in itself, but in addition to this, parents have all too often said that the main problem in practice is that they have to fight time and again for their children's rights against the authorities. They are fighting for the rights of their children so that their children can receive services on an equal and equal basis, so that they are treated equally with other children of their age. If necessary, they have even had to support lawyers and legal aid, and this is not in any way right. We are talking about human rights, we are talking about attitudes. The Minister listed a lot of tasks, what does the government do, but how do we address this fundamental issue of human rights and attitudes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u95	Mr President! When there is such a short period of time, I will confine myself to Article 10 and Article 25. The second is ‘the right to justice in a ‘second place’ to the best possible level of health without discrimination’. In Finland, the care of children with mental disabilities is being restricted to this day. They are denied treatment that is necessary and fully justified but which is not provided on grounds of disability. This is a disgrace in this country. We have 40,000 mentally disabled people in this country, and we can take care of them here. Year after year, the Ombudsman draws attention to this same thing. In 2009, Deputy Ombudsman Maija Sakslin has given her ruling, which also contains a recommendation to amend the law, but still nothing has been done on this matter. Unfortunately, the self-determination law does not necessarily respond to this if it is merely a list of these coercive measures or restrictive measures. Mr President! This is a question of human rights, this is an issue of international agreements, and if anyone in this country, this is echoes from the 30th century. This issue needs to be corrected in order to ensure that people with disabilities:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u96	Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, represented by Vehviläinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u97	Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo for this initiative. As we can see, there are very many signatures here. I think that many of us also wondered when preparing for this debate, what practical things come to mind at once. I myself listed five things: firstly, transport services for people with disabilities — I believe there are problems everywhere — on the one hand, access to sign-language interpreters, digital exclusion, plain language and, on the other hand, the Torilava of Joensuu, which is a fine but accessible problem for people with disabilities. Perhaps the new point in this debate is that we should genuinely work towards improving access to work for people with disabilities. We are talking about unwillingness to work, and I believe that very many people with disabilities could work part-time or even full-time. And I also think that this is a whip for the public sector, both the municipalities and the state, and that attitudes should be changed on this side as well. The public sector should be able to set an example of more people with disabilities being employed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u98	And Mr Laiho, Vice-President of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u99	Mr President! Finland has adopted the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2016, but it still has a number of shortcomings in practical implementation, compliance with it. Everyone must have equal opportunities to live, engage, train and work in a safe and inclusive environment. For example, disabled children and young people want to participate in leisure activities and engage in the same activities as other people of their age, but here there are many things — personal assistance, transport services, interpretation services — that are often inadequate and that are left to the family. Getting a job is an important issue that we hope will be improved during this government term. But then there is one more point I would like to make: the unequal treatment of housing. For disabled persons living in a service dwelling, the property tax is clearly higher than for others. That is why I have put forward an initiative to the government to take legislative action to correct the unequal treatment of property taxes against people with disabilities. There is practically no basis for this. Disabled people can work and otherwise live a normal life, but in some areas they need support in personal activities, and that also means paying higher property tax.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u100	Mr President! Disability is present in me at every moment. I'm older than a different kid. She's special, she's wonderful, and she's unspoken. And his name is Nuutti. When studying and evaluating disability, our society focuses on finding ways to integrate him better into our environment. Sometimes those estimates have broken him. Sometimes he hasn't been met. And sometimes I've gone away with her because she hasn't been tried to understand. Sometimes, however, an equal encounter can be found unexpectedly. Although when I tell the waitress what my child wants to eat at the fast - food restaurant, the waiter responds by looking at only my child instead. And when he asks the child instead of me, do you want not only a meal but also a toy? And when, after putting together the food we ordered on the tray, he hands it directly to my child and wishes him a good appetite. The answer to becoming involved is not found in the ways in which a disabled person is integrated into us. The answer lies in how we integrate ourselves into a disabled person.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u101	Mr President! It is a little challenging to begin with. Attitude to people with disabilities is already formed as a child, at a young age in day-care centres and in schools. We do not allow children to deal with other children enough and to get to know these wonderful personalities. Disabled children live in many parts of the adult world, and we must pay attention to the fact that children are allowed to live with children with the support of adults. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u102	Mr President! Surveys show that the rights of people with disabilities, despite UN agreements, are being implemented badly or very badly. This is sad to hear. Disability services are about the protection of the right to equal participation in society by law. In Finland, however, the proportion of unemployed people is almost double that of people with disabilities. Furthermore, the mental disability union reports a devastating fact that a large proportion of people with mental disabilities may have been in employment comparable activities for up to decades without the rights, benefits and wages of the employment relationship. According to the mental disability association, at least 3,000 people with mental disabilities could be employed immediately in paid employment if they were given the opportunity. Modern technology would enable things that have never been possible before, such as the reconciliation of the visually impaired and working life. According to statistics from the Visual Injury Register, the employment rate of the visually impaired was less than 40 per cent in 15 years. The employment rate has fallen and the gap with the rest of the population has increased. I would therefore like to raise the question of whether we have been able to exploit the potential of technological development in this sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u103	Mr President! Thank you to the author of this initiative and thank you to the mother for coming here with the information and also proof from the expert that this is the case. We do not necessarily see what disabled people need, even though we here speak fine and make fine laws. And there's a really great phrase about "No, we don't." I would like to express my great thanks to my esteemed Mr Könkkölä, who hopefully applauds this debate with that bank of heaven, for opening the eyes of many, including the eyes of many parliamentarians, to the affairs of the disabled. It is indeed true what has been said here: services do not work, there is no individuality, there is no freedom of choice, there is no right of self-determination, there is no employment, even if the disability does not always take away the ability to work. Accessibility — that is what we can only dream of. All in all, employment, as I said — attitudes are a problem. All this despite the fact that we have done a lot of deeds and a lot of different legislation, including a system of personal assistance for people with disabilities, which is subjective law. Now we have heard from the Minister a good list of everything that is being done. Let's make one of them true what the minister just said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u104	Mr President! Thank you, indeed, to all those who have signed the initiative. It is really great that so many representatives have joined this debate initiative. Indeed, in many municipalities important accessibility work is done by these councils for the disabled. This work is essential in the sense that it seeks to take into account, from the perspective of a disabled person, certain obstacles that exist in the surrounding society as obstacles to mobility or other obstacles to the usability of services. This work is enormously important and is often done on a voluntary basis. Indeed, it would need much more support than it is receiving today. Another issue I would like to address in relation to the definition of disability is how indoors and people who are seriously ill with indoor air do not come within this definition of disability. This is something that in our society is still some sort of taboo and requires work to be done to make progress here too. People who are unable to work or live in the same premises as others because of these indoor air problems are in a very vulnerable position in our society like other people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u105	Mr President! I share the same thanks as the other Members in this Chamber: thank you for bringing this important issue to the debate, and, of course, special thanks to the first signatory of the initiative, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen. I would also like to thank Mr Kopo for bringing up his personal everyday example and for sharing it with us in this debate. I hope that, now that the national strategy for children is being prepared, the rights of children with disabilities and the support of families will be properly examined and concrete steps will be taken to improve the situation throughout the country. We also need more research on children and young people with disabilities to make their voices heard. The rights of disabled children cannot be a sub-chapter of child policy; they must be involved in everything. Although these are children with special needs, they have much of the same needs as all other children. They want to be seen and accepted as themselves, to have security and love, to play, to learn and to make friends. We need practical action and a change of attitude to ensure the rights and opportunities for participation of people with disabilities. Mr President! As chairman of the delegation on behalf of the child, I would like to remind you, in every place and especially in this Chamber, that children's rights belong to all children.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u106	Mr President, värderade talman! I would also like to thank Mr Mäkisalo-Roppo for raising an important point. People with disabilities still face a lot of discrimination and shortcomings in services in Finland. The core principles of the UN Convention ratified by Finland are respect for individual sovereignty, non-discrimination and equality. These are also covered by the Finnish Constitution. Yet, equality is still too rare.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u107	Mr President! I could talk about the right of a disabled person to work, but I am addressing accessibility. It is important for the rights of people with disabilities to be realised to ensure that all communication is accessible. Sound subtitles are an extremely important service that enables people with visual impairments and readings to watch TV. It is important that it should continue to be safeguarded. Similarly, as digitalisation progresses, there is a risk of obstacles to the accessibility of the message, whether it be technical requirements or just too complex a language to use. We have had a working group on communication accessibility, which, however, was abolished during the last parliamentary term. I would like to ask: How does the government intend to ensure that communications are accessible? Is a similar working group to be considered in the future? How are we prepared to do everything we can to ensure that people with disabilities are ready and involved in this ride that is developing with digitalisation?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u108	Mr President! We have good health and safety at work, and road safety has improved significantly in recent years, but indoor air problems remain almost unchanged. Because of these and many other things of this kind, we will have more disabled people of different ages, and their treatment as full members of society is very important. That is why it is good that this debate is now taking place. The government plans to use wage subsidies as a means of employment. Personally, I am very much in favour of using pay subsidies to encourage, for example, access to the work of these people with disabilities, although otherwise, in normal cases, I am quite critical. But there is still much to be done in this area, and I hope that the government will take those good objectives forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u109	Mr President! The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is important. Involvement is the right of all people. A disabled person must have opportunities for independent living, training and employment in any other place. However, in many cases and in many cases, a difficult language can become an obstacle to his being able to act as a full citizen. It is certainly not possible to overemphasise the importance of plain language, and I think that our legislation is too weak to recognise it. We should be able to express ourselves more clearly in public services, in decision-making and elsewhere. The interaction shall also be two-way. Apart from the need for an understandable language, a disabled person must also have the opportunity to be heard in order to achieve self-determination. Mr Koponen told me in a very touching, fine way, in the mother’s language what it can mean in everyday life. It reminded me of such a poem, the content of which I do not remember — I would recite it here if I could remember it — but it says, however, that ‘even if he does not have words, there is much to say’. It's going to go on so well. If anyone happens to recognize it, it is worth digging up, but here is the great wisdom. Now I have probably spent my time, but let me also say that inclusion can also be supported by good service guidance when you go to the service side.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u110	As I said, it is just over a minute — an unhindered minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u111	Mr President! Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen described these experiences of people with disabilities and pointed out that even the right to life has been called into question. It does tell us a lot about the experiences that these fellow humans have to face. We have a lot of good legislation right from our constitution and equality law, but in practice, unfortunately, in municipalities, for example in the case of municipal services, people with disabilities are experiencing inequality. In January we had a few delegates visiting Addis Ababa to get acquainted with the ordinary Ethiopian school. I was left to talk about the fact that the whole class was studying sign language when there was one deaf student in the class, and not just an hour or two, but really they were studying sign language. I think that sometimes we could have something to learn from these developing countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u112	Mr President! I would like to continue with Mr Räsänen's thoughts to pay particular attention to improving the position of hearing-impaired people. The Government Programme contains many entries supporting sign language. For example, it promises to clarify the need to update the legislation on early childhood education and basic education in line with the Sign Language Act and the UN Disability Convention. In addition, the Finnish-Swedish Sign Language Recovery Programme will be continued. It is also very important that a wide-ranging advisory board on sign language matters is set up in the Government Programme to assess the implementation of the Sign Language Act and of the fundamental rights of sign language. A very important entry is that social and health care services should be provided in sign language.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u113	Mr President! Disabled people are among the poorest in society. The government should therefore ensure that during this period, when implementing this social and health policy reform, it tackles the possibility of reducing the structural poverty of people with disabilities, for example by looking at the right of disabled people to work while on disability pension. In health care, costs are accumulated for people with low income long-term illnesses, which often include people with disabilities. For this reason, it should be possible to add together the costs and charges of medical and other health care, which would result in a faster accumulation of own resources and a full ceiling on own resources, which in turn would reduce poverty. Of course, I would be interested to know whether this matter has been raised in the government. The exclusion of people with disabilities from the labour market also increases the poverty of people with disabilities. There are thousands of people with mental disabilities in Finland who are both educated and willing to work, but they cannot get to the job. I would also be interested to hear whether the government has given attention to this problem. The fact that pay subsidies should be used more frequently to recruit people with disabilities has already been mentioned. Not only a livelihood, but services are also vital for people with low incomes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u114	Mr President! I have listened with a sensitive ear to this debate, for example, because in a week and a half on Monday, 2 March, I have the opportunity to be a platform at the VAPI Association for Disabled People and Long-Term Diseases in Southwest Finland. This organisation covers 70 different membership organisations. I will pass on the atmosphere of this debate, the greetings of this debate, which have been very consistent with the fact that we are seriously concerned about how, in this society, we can get the status of people with disabilities and long-term illnesses into force and the conditions created by legislation even better than what is currently the case for survival in the lives of people with disabilities. I would like to raise one specific issue, which is the inclusion of the special care programme for people with mental disabilities in future legislation. However, mental disability has specific characteristics which differ in a certain way from all categories of persons with disabilities, which can be taken into account in the special care programme and can be strengthened in such a way as to ensure that subjective rights are safeguarded as far as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u115	Mr President! Mother lions and father lions often fight for their handicapped children. There's also grandmas and grandpas, they're lions too. They are also fighting and going to tell us parliamentarians about family situations. The disability councils were made legal. I made it a law initiative in 2014, and it was really a great thing that they were registered in the law. I would ask you, Minister: how have you experienced that disability councils can influence the affairs of people with disabilities in today's Finland? They're not decision-making organs, are they? My second question concerns the adequacy of staff. I have worked for a long time in the care of the elderly, but also in the care of the elderly. I have to say, as a nurse, it was a very special experience. I had to learn a lot of new things. I know that there is a serious shortage of staff in the housing units of people with disabilities. How does the future Human Resources Act respond, for example, to services for people with disabilities and to the availability of staff there? Then there is the third question, if the President will allow it to be related to this clear language, which was raised here. I have taken an initiative to increase the level of plain language. Among other things, I suggested that we could, at least once in Parliament, organise a so-called open-language Question Time. It is also very challenging for us speakers to speak in plain language. A clear-language electoral panel was held under the elections, where it was interesting to be involved. It's up to all of us to speak in plain language. Short, succinct sentences, clear sentences, so that all of us — and we may not always understand each other — understand where the world is built, what we are talking about, what we are asking.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u116	Mr President! I very much appreciate the atmosphere in this Chamber at the moment. We are not talking about disabled people as one mush, but we understand that each one of them is the same person we are. Someone's Nuutti. Someone's Lina. Minister Kiuru, you talked about the huge amount of reform that is now coming in the pipeline, the legislative work. My message to you is: when instructing the preparation, please remind us that when it comes to a disabled child, account should be taken of the whole family, account should be taken of the parents, the grandparents, the siblings. It is not always about the services of one individual person, but about the survival of that family, the future of that family. Another thing that makes my bile boil is to compete for services of a lifetime. You've got a thousand bucks to fix it. I hope you'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u117	Mr President, ärade talman! Thank you all for your valuable and important contributions. I myself wanted to raise this property tax issue as well. There's been some feedback. In other words, group homes for people with mental disabilities, like other service and support housing buildings for special groups, may belong to three different building categories in the building register. At present, therefore, they are subject to different taxation, and this can be reflected by up to EUR 40 per month for a single resident. So I hope that attention will be paid to this. This was a new matter for me too, but it has received a lot of feedback, and here too it came from a good colleague.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u118	Mr President! I would like to thank you for this discussion initiative and also for the fact that there are many of us here who have nothing to do with the everyday life of the disabled family, read, read, lived and lived. I have worked in this Parliament's Disability Cooperation Group in Vamyi even then during the first parliamentary term in the early 2000s. I remember how we worked at that time to ensure that every disabled person was entitled to personal assistance. So this issue has finally been brought into law, and it is also in the process of implementing this UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states: ‘an equal right to life in a community where they have equal opportunities for choice’. However, there is a small remedy in that law. There is still talk of this so-called resource requirement, which is a condition for the disabled person to receive personal assistance. In other words, he is required to be able to make choices. However, in my opinion — and I believe that we all certainly believe that — every disabled person is entitled to that personal assistance, even if he is not always able to express his need for help or his own choice. This resource requirement is found in section 8 of the law. I have now put a written question to the government about this, and I really hope that this resource requirement will now be re-evaluated in this legislative reform and in that way bring all people with disabilities into the same assistance that they certainly all need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u119	Mr President! Thank you to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen for this good debate and thank you to all those who have spoken. It is a matter of common interest and extremely important, and it therefore deserves to be discussed in this form as well, on the whole, on the rights of people with disabilities. Here, in a rather touching way, we really described the problems that have been encountered according to the studies: problems of accessibility, access to employment, access to information overall, equality in the digital world — I think the most important issue. All these things have come up in this debate. In fact, what immediately occurred to me was this citizens' initiative for sale last season, which the Parliament here dealt with very carefully. At the time, I was very pleased that the whole Parliament, together, wanted to put this matter in order, took a position on it, directed it to further work. And I think it is very important that, in my opinion, Minister Kiuru has now pushed it forward as required by Parliament. In other words, a working group has been set up to see how we can achieve the goal of this important citizens' initiative. For that work, I really wish you good luck, and I believe that it will also move forward. That was, Mr President, a question in which, in due course, I myself was much concerned about equality, the right to self-determination in the form of housing, competition. Markku Virutmäki, who started this initiative at some time, talked a lot about this in the very terms that this is a typical example of where the market value of our world goes ahead of human dignity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u120	Mr President! When I was a kid, I saw Down kids around me. They were at my school, where I lived, hit them in the city. You don't see them much anymore. The main reason for this is that although such pregnancies, which predict that the fetus may not be all right, are likely to be more than before, because people make children at an older age, our fetal diagnosis is so advanced that these children are often not born. In Uusimaa, where the oldest child is born and where there is also the most effective fetal diagnosis at the Women’s Clinic, 90% of the pregnancies who received Down diagnosis were interrupted ten years ago. There is absolutely no point in blaming anyone. It's probably one of the worst things in life when you find out that everything in the womb isn't right. Unfortunately, however, when I have done voluntary work on this matter, I know that there are also very many parents in our country who are being pressured to stop pregnancy when everything is not right, for Trisomy 18 or also for diseases with which you can live well. Especially when it comes to very young mothers, they are often pressured to stop pregnancy. This is terrible. Many of these children have the opportunity to live, if not just like us here, yet a life full enough. And I think that these families and pregnant parents should always be offered the opportunity to end pregnancy with a happy birth.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u121	Mr President! In time, I also had the privilege of being a special teacher. Those moments raised me the most as a teacher, also raised me as a person. Every one of us is different but yet equal — it was perhaps the best lesson I had in these years. We currently have about 30,000 people of working age with mental disabilities, and only 2% of them are employed. However, thousands of them work without pay and do quite a productive job, packing work, assembly work. In my opinion, this should be addressed and they should also be paid a salary for the work they have done. Web accessibility is one of the things I have raised, and it has also been on the agenda today in this debate. Some of the pages in the ministries can already be listened to. It's a good addition. It has been made easier to use, but then there is also the fact that we have many people with disabilities and also an ageing population who want to participate in decision-making and democracy, and then, Mr President, we come to such a situation as Question Time, which ended a moment ago. I have previously suggested that, when questions are already interpreted into sign language, we could make a big decision in Parliament and also start writing live questions. It would make it easier for many people in need of plain language to follow Question Time, but also for many older people to follow Question Time. I have also made a proposal to the Council of Presidents in due course, and I hope that Mr Eerola will now be able to take this forward again and do one concrete thing in this House. Then, Mr President, people with disabilities as a whole — in sport, in accidents,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u122	Mr President! Thank you for the important initiative and for the in-depth contributions. I do not like the saying about the birth of a child when it is said that ‘the main thing is that children are healthy’. What if he's not well? What if he's disabled? The important thing is that she is a child, a dear child. Every human being is priceless by his father. I had the pleasure of teaching and principaling young people with mental disabilities for 23 years. The mentally disabled were full members of the National College. I learned the most from them. I was recently visited by six mentally handicapped boys who gave food to us parliamentarians. They said: ‘Work industriously’. ‘Do not take drugs,otherwise Finland is facing problems’. ‘The top of the ‘None in stock.’ “The Earth will stop if we do it,” They also talked about doing the work: ‘I don’t want to do the right thing for people with developmental ‘It would be nice “I want to wear my own clothes so There has already been a lot of talk about these issues. We need job training, which is a long-term job, but when a mentally handicapped person learns work, he is the most responsible and committed employee. Friends are also needed, as many with mental disabilities find themselves lonely. We need to be clear that we understand what's going on. Mr President! Our job is to promote equality for every disabled person. The inclusion of everyone is the hallmark of a civilized country. At the end of the day, the mentally disabled boys gave us all clear - language advice: “Believe the future.”
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u123	When the Presidents changed, they both gave one minute so that it took a long time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u124	Mr President! I had thought about talking about the right of people with disabilities to work, but we have heard such moving and touching speeches in this Chamber, such as Mr Koponen's experience speech, that I would first like to thank you for the atmosphere that has been present in this Chamber in this debate. We have been one for a while, and that is the most important message we can give from this hall. We have a lot of work to do with attitudes. I understood that at the very latest when I was standing in line with a mentally handicapped child and the middle-aged couple who came back said not to go behind that. It is not enough for us to speak here today: we need concrete measures, and I understand that the government is committed and committed to doing so. And it is up to us all to see that they actually go there, because I believe that the most valuable thing in Mr Koponen's speech and in other people who have been heard here today has been the fact that we have had that ark here. We have remembered why we are talking and what we are talking about. That should be remembered in other discussions. Together we will ensure that people with disabilities have the same human rights as all of us, each of whom is as valuable as us. I don't even know what to say, but thank you all for this conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u125	Mr President! Thank you at this point for this wonderful debate. I would now like to remind you that, although I am the first signatory to this initiative, this initiative is a joint initiative of the Parliamentary Cooperation Group on Disability. So thank you to the whole group and thank you to all the signatories. The Disability Cooperation Group cooperates with various disability organisations, and disability organisations have also been here to tell us about their everyday lives and the wishes associated with it. The Disability Forum is a cooperation organisation of 29 national organisations for the disabled, which is doing a huge amount of voluntary work to improve the rights of people with disabilities. For example, it has been given an obligation to monitor the implementation of the UN CRPD and to draw up a Finnish report for its part. There will also be a lot of referrals to the Disability Forum. Now I hope that the valuable work of the Disability Forum will be taken into account and will also receive public funding. Because at the moment it is not getting it. And at the same time, I hope that the valuable work of disability organisations will be appreciated and guaranteed in the future by means of STEA funding to enable it to operate properly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u126	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, the first signatory, and to all the signatories of the initiative for this important subject. Of course, disabled people have the same rights as everyone else. From the perspective of people with disabilities in Finland, the situation is relatively good in international comparisons, but that does not mean that we have everything in order. Thank you very much, Mr Koponen and Mr Rantanen, for the speeches that go straight to the heart. Your speeches, in particular, were very important and, of course, all Members today. The views of disability organisations are regularly consulted in most major legislative and other reform projects, but not consistently and sufficiently. This should change, as disability has been the second most common ground of discrimination for contact with the delegate throughout the term of office of the Ombudsman for Equality to date. Discrimination also occurs in working life, and disability is too often the cause of a hate crime. Such discrimination must be stopped. In my opinion, stricter sanctions should be considered for discriminating against one person because of disability. It is obvious that disabled people also need more support to cope with everyday life, including their relatives. Improving the situation of carers could also contribute to the well-being of people with disabilities. I would also like to say that we have the Turku Musical Club in Turku, and for years we have been attending an event about two or three times a year where we share a musical dance moment, dance and fun with the mentally disabled, and I must say that we have all received more from it than anyone else. We get to deal with family.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u127	Mr President! We must build a country in Finland where hard work is encouraged and rewarded in all situations. It is extremely shameful that only about 600 of the 30,000 people of Finnish working age with mental disabilities are employed in paid employment. People's attitudes and the incentive traps of the social security system and the inflexible labour market system are completely marginalising people, many of whom have internal fires to realise themselves, to reach their full potential and to be recognised in the eyes of fellow people. Some 34% to 36% of people of working age in the United States are employed, depending on the set of statistics. In Finland, the figure is only a few per cent, which is appallingly low. This is structural discrimination and it is extremely shameful. Does Finland really want to be profiled as a country that discourages rather than encourages?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u128	Mr President! Thank you for this very rich debate. Thank you in particular to Mr Koponen for sharing his own family story. Experience will help us all to understand. For example, the Centre of Social Skills in Verso has done excellent work on experience expertise, relying specifically on the promotion of the employment of people with disabilities. In Lahti, a cooperative survey was carried out as part of the Päkee work to support the labour market for people with disabilities. The challenge, especially with regard to the mentally disabled, is what was found in this study that the person in charge of lobbying cannot operate on the board of the cooperative itself. In Tampere, this has been answered by the fact that relatives have established a cooperative on their own. Can't we change this? Peer coaching activities were also developed in Lahti. The idea is that a mentally disabled person supports another in work training. In this case, the disabled person works alongside the employee coach, and the Welfare Municipal Group pays a fee for it. This has been a very effective practice in this region. People with disabilities have an equal right to work and should be monitored throughout Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u129	Mr President, ärade talman! Det är mycket fint att vi kan diskuera det ox på ett valdigt hjärtligt och fint ätt är idag. Ett stort tag till ledamot Mäkisalo-Ropponen för att du tog det här initialt, och kanske framför allt för den personliga bjättelsen som ledamot Noora Koponen bjättade bull. Det är nog ingen som är Oberörd av den historien. Det finns många utmangar kring den ox saken, och det gläder mig att ledamot Kiviranta lyfte fram teckenspråket för de Svenskspråkiga. Det är en stor utmaning som vi har, för det handlar ju om minoriteternas minoritetet. Det handlar om attityder, tillgänglighet till exempel för öjlighet till arbete men också öjlighet till service i kommunerna.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u130	Mr President! We regard Finland as a progressive and equal country. Particular attention will be paid to gender equality, as it should be. As we have seen in this debate initiative, there are still a lot of shortcomings for people with disabilities, which are surprisingly significant and have a significant impact on people's lives. For example, I now take as one the railway station in Kuopio, which is the only station in our major cities where accessibility has not been taken into account. There's not even an elevator for the platform. I have been contacted, which amazes and amazes me about how much longer it may be before such mishaps can be corrected. Mr President! I made a proposal for an amending budget to correct this. It was voted down. I have put a written question on this matter which I shall be tabling tomorrow, and I hope that, on the basis of this debate too, such irregularities and their correction will at last be treated with due seriousness. Unfortunately, this is just one example of consideration for people with disabilities and, in particular, of their neglect. I would now like to ask the Minister when one is here: what, and when, is the government going to do to remedy such fundamental shortcomings?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u131	Mr President! There is still much to be done in Finland to enforce the rights of people with disabilities. Ultimately, the measure of all society is how it takes care of its weakest, children, the elderly, the disabled and so on. President! A few comments: Many people with disabilities have an unfortunate experience of not being taken seriously, that is, feeling understatement. This is a serious attitudeal problem. Many youths struggle with their own self - esteem, let alone those with disabilities who experience bullying, discrimination, a sense of diversity. There are also problems of attitude in the workplace and in the labour market. The assumption is often that the disabled person is at least only partially capable of working. The assumption of such incompetence may prevent work at all. Appropriate adaptation rarely prevents work from being done by disabled people and thus gives them such experience of need. Attention also to education and training: In most cases, disability is taken into account reasonably well until the end of basic education. It might be harder after that. The second level may no longer have the same resource opportunity to take into account adequate support for disability, and often conditions such as vocational education and training are challenging through disability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u132	Mr President! Anyone with the ability to work should have access to the labour market, the right to be involved through work and pride in their own work. The exceptionally low employment rate of people with disabilities in Finland is indecent. According to the OECD, people with disabilities work less often in Finland than anywhere else in Europe. It is not just a lack of services; it is a question of attitudes that have been referred to in this debate. The disabled person is not always able to work part-time, but it is also about structures in Finland, we have to do better. The increase in wage subsidies is one possibility of correcting the situation for those who are able to work part-time, and I hope that the government will aim for more effective wage support to improve the labour market position of people with disabilities. A major structural problem in Finland is the highly regulated labour market. Inflexibility in terms of working conditions easily leads to an incentive for an entrepreneur to hire only full-time workers. If working conditions were to be flexible, part-time workers would also have better access to employment. I hope that the government will promote greater labour market opportunities for people with disabilities through flexibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u133	I will give you all the answers that have been requested, that is to say to the representatives of Rantanen, Kinnunen, Noora Koponen, Rehn-Kivi and the last representative of Mäkisalo-Ropponen, and then the Minister's replies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u134	Mr President! Now that I have had the opportunity to speak again, I would like to raise a few more points in this debate and, in fact, to underline that the right to life is enormously important. I hope that the Minister will intervene in this matter, Article 19, the right to personal assistance. And right now, on this legislative reform, I would like to see this limitation of resources reviewed, because when it comes to a person with mental disabilities, he may not be able to express what his immediate person knows — what he likes, for example, about going to concerts or a shopping centre or a movie or anything else — so that he should accept that the person next to him can also bring the information he needs. The second point is this issue of housing, which I would like the government to take a stand on. Not for sale on the basis of a citizens' initiative. It is, in fact, a bad feeling that today we still have a market for auctions — where housing is sold, at the lowest price. I would like this to be one of the government's top priorities. And I cannot fail to comment on this issue of working life now that the employment objectives in this country are quite high. We have a huge workforce reserve for people with disabilities, which would certainly be part of the workforce right away and part of it with a small contribution to working life. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u135	Mr President! I would like to continue with what Mr Rantanen said about this potential in the employment of people with disabilities. When we look at statistics, only 2 to 4% of people with disabilities of working age are employed. This employment is not a quick solution. Long-term training is needed, and this training should in some way be intensified or increased. How it is done — I would be happy to hear from the Minister. Another thing that has been in mind during this debate should be offered more than one option for people with mental disabilities to live in. Many times it comes as if it were fixed, and this idea of the UN, the idea of human rights and the rights of people with disabilities, does not materialise. In other words, this kind of personal customization of housing for everyone would be important. Representative Rantanen also spoke about this support for hobbies. After all, it is possible today to have such personal assistance, but there is no desire to do so. How to get more factors to do this — it has also been in mind.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u136	Mr President! Thank you very much to all of you who have participated in this debate and wanted to make visible those who do not have their own voice. We must remember that there are restrictions that we cannot do anything about, and there are restrictions that can be rehabilitated and supported. However, the worst restrictions are those we create ourselves, and in the end the disabled person is the one who should determine whether or not he has a restriction. Disability still does not belong to all tables, meeting minutes, decisions or presentations throughout the administrative sectors, and there is still a desire to place a marked place for disability in order to make it easier to deal with. As long as we look down on diversity and feel that we can define another person's involvement, there is no equality. But this is something we can change.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u137	Mr President, värderade talman! Thank you for this appreciative debate. There has been talk here about the inclusion of people with disabilities and the possibility of an independent life, and here, for example, aids and accessibility play a crucial role. The tools contribute to accessibility and, despite the constraints, enable a person to cope as self-employedly as possible at home, at school, at school, at study, at work and during leisure time, but at the moment it takes an excessive amount of time to access the facilities. My grandson had to wait several months for a wheelchair. Although the legislation provides that aids are free of charge, many disabled persons have had to buy part or all of their aids themselves, otherwise they may have to wait up to a year and a half. It is great that the Government Programme has now set out measures to improve the situation. Accessibility is one of the key prerequisites for the inclusion of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u138	One last response to the first signatory of the debate initiative, Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u139	Mr President! To conclude, I would like to say a few words about accessibility, because the disadvantaged environment discriminates against people with disabilities, and I find it really strange that this issue should not be put right more quickly in Finland. In particular, municipalities should wake up to this. This can be promoted in many ways, and I very much hope that we will now be taking this debate to our own municipalities and municipal councils for our part. To improve accessibility, a good way is to make better use of accessibility experts in the design and development of services and to involve people with disabilities as experienced experts in the design, implementation, research and evaluation of services and other activities. Accessibility and accessibility of procurement skills should also be increased for those responsible for procurement. There is still much to discuss on this subject. I feel that we have still only scratched the surface of this profound theme. But now is probably the time to stop, and at the end of the day I would like to thank everyone for this debate. And I have to say that I would like to see such a community atmosphere in this Chamber more often.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u140	Last speech of the debate, Minister Kiuru, about 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u141	Mr President! I think that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen's wish and, in fact, some sort of conclusion from this debate is right, and perhaps it also demonstrates our dependence on one another as people. The way we talk about each other, the way we put good things around, was certainly the most beautiful music in this debate for a long time. Because yes, all interaction is about whether we can understand each other and each other’s needs. That is what many spoke of in this debate in an excellent way. I think that Mr Koponen summed up this dependence on one another, on different people, on different wishes and needs in a very beautiful way from the point of view of one family, but touchingly, so that it certainly left in the heart the state of will that Risiko was talking about here. So finding a common will is essential in these matters. In fact, it all comes from what was discussed here together and what Mrs Elomaa said about discrimination, that what it really means to understand another person and where those borders go. Yes, this UN will is very clear in that we cannot, as it were, go out and discriminate against anyone with different characteristics of disability. Today, disability does not distinguish between mentally disabled and disabled people. In this way, I think it is important that we stick to these big policies of will. It then brings to this real work also the beauty that this should all be about. Many of you spoke about the work, representatives Olliikainen and Kemppi, the chairman of the committee Vehviläinen, Vestman, Koponen and Heikkinen. It is good to say that people with disabilities themselves believe that the right to work and to work on an equal footing with others was at the weakest. And this increase in participation, including those who are able to work part-time, is very important. If the disabled person himself feels that he does not have the right as an equal member of society to get a job for himself, I think that is a really big message that needs to be taken seriously. Another big entity: When VANE was asked how rights were realised, according to the VANE report, the best way to achieve access to health services for people with disabilities was to have access to health services on an equal footing with others, but it was found that there were big regional differences. Many of you specifically talked about access to different services, about the exercise of rights in practice. Personal assistance, and especially the possibility of mobility, is one thing that looks really bad. I was in Lapland this week and I noticed when I went through the situation in Lapland that quite a few disabled people no longer received the kind of support they used to have. These are quite serious issues when we talk about subjective rights that we have. There was also a question of plain language and digitality, accessibility. I think that this example of this position was quite right to describe whether issues of accessibility have been taken seriously in society, even in state institutions or in their extension. It does show that we should do much better in such matters to set an example for society as a whole. I think there is zero tolerance in such matters. Here are some aspects. As the last theme, I thought about this competition for life-long services. That has been one of those things in which Parliament has actually stood, could you say, on the heart side? This is very difficult, especially from the point of view of the STM. The state of will that we would have is not easily printed through society, precisely because this is viewed in a very different way in different ministries. The Procurement Act is its own, there are many interfaces and barriers that easily come. But I wanted this to be a genuine establishment of a group of people who sit on this issue so that the will of this Parliament must come out of the working group. By the end of May, that group will present their assessment of how these services will improve so that people can genuinely have access to these choices of their own housing. In that debate, Mr Viitanen said very well that the market value has actually taken precedence over human dignity. What kind of work can be done there, and how these different pieces can be reconciled, remains to be seen. For taxi renewal and other transport services: They'll be here. They are the task of those responsible ministers, the Minister of Transport and Minister Pekonen. In the customer fee reform, the payment ceilings will be caught. Otherwise, it is also important that the customer payment side should be able to take the necessary income into account. They were talking about English, and was there anything else there? The last good point was perhaps this position of children, the position of children with disabilities, the right of a child to good childhood — in what way it will be done and in what way every child has the right to be a child, to be part of a community of children. We adults are so cruel that we may not even know how important that right to practice would be. Here are some thoughts about this debate. I would like to thank Parliament for such a constructive and good-spirited debate that will move things forward in society for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u142	A point of order 6 will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs and Health.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u143	Mr President! Eino’s eyes were eager to find something familiar in the environment, something safe, anything to recognize. Nothing was found: houses all over the world that seem unknown, streets that seem strange. Eino had suddenly fallen into the midst of a frightening foreign world for a reason she did not know. A growing emergency forced us to move on. Pack eats with tails, fingers with ice, gloves left behind. We got a call from 911 about Eino. The family had noticed that a man was missing from an apartment in the center of a heavily populated municipality. Eino was not very old yet, but the fast - progressed memory disorder had already taken away the ability to speak and the movement had become poor. Eino couldn't have been that far away. Several police patrols were alerted to the search, and when Eino did not start to be found, the volunteer organization Vapepa was also alerted to the search. The police dog had numerous marks on it, but since Eino’s disappearance was in the middle of a busy area, his tracks had already been mixed up with numerous other pedestrians. Eino was finally found at home, in a large railway yard where he had wandered, stumbled over a thick wire for fence construction, and fell into a shallow hole between the tracks. Eino couldn't get up, because he had a lot of trouble with the wire. In addition, a few long combinations of freight trains stopped at the edge of the railway yard, preventing the searchers from seeing the man lying in the pit. The search was limited to the edge of the railway yard, as it seemed very unlikely that Eino would have made it there, and it was not safe to go to the busy railway yard in the dark. Eino was frozen to death in a hole in the railway yard, wrapped in wire. He did not die in the wilderness, not behind the ignorant journeys, but in the middle of the people, in the middle of the inhabited, in the midst of his seekers — in the middle of everything. As his last act, Eino had tried to attract attention by moving her hand back and forth along a project lined with a hole. He had been doing it with his bare hand for so long that the fingers had worn their heads against the icy terrace so badly that a large, bloody arch had drawn on the handle. The ends of the fingers had worn out a lot. Eino's death was very painful and painful. Memory sufferers are a growing challenge in an ageing Finland. Like Eino, missing persons in their homes and nursing homes employ authorities and cause concern for their families and nurses. In 2018, 3300 disappearances related to memory disorders were reported to the police, i.e. on average almost ten days. The statistical data are based on classification in emergency centres. When the old man disappears, the probability of finding him alive after 24 hours is very low. Police statistics do not show the cases where relatives, neighbors or nurses have found lost on their own. No one knows the number of those cases. Very often a memory disorder makes a person with it a prisoner of his own life. When adequate supervision is not possible, the freedom of movement of memory-disadvantaged persons must be significantly restricted. At its worst, it means shutting down. Electronic control increases the quality of life and safety of a person with memory problems. Home is a haven of security, memories and the past, where you can be yourself and act as you wish. Changes in the environment very often lead to insecurity, loss of self-activity and activity for the memory sufferer. This is an important point when looking at the situation from the point of view of self-determination. In the case of memory sufferers, self-determination needs to be reviewed in a slightly different way. Very often, a guardian is assigned to a person with a memory disorder. The freedom of the mentally ill is restricted and freedom is a very strong constitutional right. In what way would electronic control be more damaging to the constitutional rights of a person with a memory disorder than it would in reality significantly increase the security of a person with a memory disease, which is also a very strong constitutional right? It should be borne in mind that, in accordance with the initiative, these devices would be imposed on persons who, due to their own illness, could be at immediate risk, i.e. not all those with memory problems. At this point, we need to make a strong effort, put ourselves in a position of memory sickness and decide what really is best for a person with a memory disease. In practice, electronic control does not reduce self-determination but increases it. At present, such aids are already in place, with good experience. In Kuopio, for example, memory sufferers have GPS wristbands that can be called in addition to location and call the home care emergency centre. They can be used individually to determine the area from which the device alarms and the memory disorder can be called back or retrieved if it is otherwise unable to do so. It should be borne in mind that the imposition of electronic supervision is carried out individually by a physician on the basis of medical criteria. From a cost point of view, it is an affordable investment that brings significant savings. The equipment price range is wide, but the equipment used in Kuopio, for example, costs about EUR 50 per piece, so it is clear that in a very cheap way this method will significantly increase the security of the memory-diseased person, reduce the concerns of the family and save scarce resources for the authorities. Memory - diseased people are the most fragile group of people in our society, and their numbers will only increase in the near future. They are totally dependent on the help of others, and this is particularly important in the area of security. In the context of a tightening economy in particular, we must ensure that people with memory disorders have the right to a decent and safe life. The memory sufferer should be able to live normal everyday life despite his illness, engaging in hobbies, meeting friends and moving around, because memory sickness must not deprive him of the right to move and live outside the home. I'm asking you to remember Eino. I ask you to take his place: What's it like to walk out the door when everything looks unknown, strange, nowhere to find a way back home? How does it feel? Safe, scary. And how does it feel to fall in that frozen hole, wrapped in wire? The only way to ask for help is to rub your hand against an icy bench for so long that the snow stains red with blood. Mr President! How would you feel if the help came in time? How does it feel to be saved? Imagine yourself in that situation, and make the right decision here, for one day one of us will be in that situation. With this decision, you may save a few more, but one day you may save yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u144	Mr President! It is estimated that there are currently more than 190,000 people with memory disorders in Finland, and it is estimated that some 14,500 people become ill every year in Finland. Most of them are over 80 years old, but more than 7,000 people aged 30 to 65 have also been diagnosed with progressive memory disorders. Seventy-five per cent of the elderly in long-term care have a memory disorder. As the population ages, the number will only increase. As a result, the number of elderly people in home care will also increase. Regrettably, the Government's staffing law on 24-hour care will further undermine domestic care that is already struggling with difficulties. We must ensure that all our elderly are taken care of. Unfortunately, the Human Resources Act under discussion in the Parliament does not take into account the possibility of using digital tools to support care and care. It would have made sense to take this possibility into account before making a binding change to one point, then we could take into account the whole field of services for the elderly and how technology can also be used to support care, whether it is 24-hour care or home care. Representative S.H.I.E.L.D.'s more than 100 signatures are related to the possibility of electronic control of a person if there is an immediate risk that he or she may be exposed to serious health and safety risks due to memory sickness. Safety is the starting point for living at home. Home is the best place for most people when the environment is safe and it is still safe to be there. A sense of security is also important for family members. The concern for a loved one is great if there is fear that he will not remember his own address, for example, or that he will get lost or wander into the cold. As Mr S.H.I.E.L.D. explained, a good example was heard of this, where it could end up at its worst. Each year, too, these harsh stories can be read in the magazines, which has led to the disillusionment of the elderly. Digital security systems should be used if they can increase safety, be they 24-hour care or home. At the same time, however, we must be careful that digital systems do not displace humanity and that technical solutions do not prevent, for example, the elderly in home care from being treated 24 hours a day, if there are other reasons for doing so. But like a representative S.H.I.E.L.D. well pointed out, self-determination is also a matter of being able to move and not being confined to a space and being able to implement itself. It is great that this initiative has received so many signatures and is moving forward to Parliament and can then be carefully assessed from all sides. However, at the moment, our legislation is quite justified in assessing our laws from the point of view of sovereignty and also security, that these technological solutions are not so unambiguous. I am sure that this debate will also provide opportunities for many other technological challenges and for what is being considered at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u145	Honorable Speaker! I would like to thank Mr S. S.H.I.E.L.D. for a good bill which has also been very convincing in collecting signatures. At first, electronic control breaks out in the ear: it sounds like a very tough solution and it wares with ideas against self-determination. However, in the circumstances described in this bill, I believe that electronic control would be very justified. The fact that the place where the person under supervision is located is available to the relevant authorities, i.e. the health care unit, the police, does not yet mean that the person is being kept under constant surveillance or that his rights are being violated. Of course, it is not just a person who can be controlled, but only a person who can be put at risk because of his memory sickness. I understand it would be awkward in my head if someone always knew where you were going. On the other hand, we are all carrying so many devices now that I cannot at least swear that the authorities could not know where I am at any time. However, I trust the authorities and that my data can only be accessed when there is real cause for it. I therefore believe that the majority of people with memory disorders and their loved ones are in favour of electronic control. Lost memory sufferers are searched for in Finland at least weekly, and of course the search takes up considerable resources. Electronic tracking would make it easy to help people who are lost, or just goofy. Knowledge of the possibility of supervision would greatly alleviate the concern of the memory - stricken person and his family. Monitoring could even increase self-determination, as there would be no need to restrict the movement of a patient under electronic control. So it would no longer be a big problem to lose. President! Many of us have experience of electronic monitoring, for example, for our children’s telephones. We think it's safe for parents to know where our offspring are moving. Young people are, of course, annoyed by this kind of stalking, but there is also agreement on these issues. I have not followed my own children so closely, but it has sometimes been a relief to know that the phone is on its way home, even though we are already very late. I also know of cases where older singles have allowed their children to follow their own phone. That's the security that knows someone's watching and someone cares. President! The Government Programme has committed itself to the reform of the Act on Elderly Services. I believe that this commendable and very sensible bill on the possibility of electronic surveillance for a person with memory disorders should be taken into account at the latest in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u146	Mr President! Thank you very much to Mr S.H.I.Eino for his story and for this initiative, which, I believe, will be taken into account in the development of elderly services, as Mr Kivisaari said earlier. I would also like to thank Mr Laiho for his important withdrawals. Finland’s 190,000 people with memory disorders need sufficient support and help. Finland’s 14500years of memorydiseaserequires our support,as well as their own. Electronic surveillance could be one of the tools for this. In 7,000 Finns right now, a progressive memory disorder changes life, they need rehabilitation. If I think of Finland as a whole, sparsely populated regions, digital aids will help to develop services so that it is safe to live in all parts of our country. It was touching to hear that more than 3,000 missing persons are reported in a year. If we think of the distress and the pain involved, whether lost or his loved ones, such security equipment is one of the solutions to such situations. Home is a sanctuary. It's the best place when it's safe and you don't have to be afraid. There's no memory sickness, because you can be yourself. There, too, the ability to function is maintained when you get to do things in a familiar environment. My grandmother was allowed to live at home for a long time, but then, when memory sickness came to her in the last years, there was an uncertain phase in which electronic control would have had its place. Then, when he eventually got into good care and care, he was ready to go and live happy and happy for the rest of his life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u147	Mr President! I understand very well that the representative S.H.I.E.L.D. means well with this bill, but I have some disagreement as to whether this bill, at least in this form, is the right solution to the real problem that we have in society. So I am the Chairman of the Memory Federation, and in the Memory Federation, we emphasise the will to care, the supported decision-making process and the well-timed lobbying mandate. We should all think about these things now and, at the latest, if we suffer from memory sickness. Professionals should be better equipped to raise these issues with the sufferer in good time at the beginning of the illness and to support the recording of the will for treatment or otherwise clearly expressing their own will. You can and should also register your own will to use electronic monitoring devices, for example, as the disease progresses. The Government Programme sets out the objective of finally completing the self-determination law. So this is the third period of trying to bring about this law. The first time, I would say, the spirit of the law was somewhat similar to that of this bill, that is, what and how limitation measures, monitoring and so forth can be added or used in the case of people with memory disorders. Last season, the spirit of the bill turned in the right direction, that is, how and by what means the self-determination of the mentally ill could be supported. In the Memory Union, we have been actively involved in this legislative work throughout these three periods, and we have particularly stressed the need to support self-determination and to anticipate well enough. If a person with a memory disorder is discussed and heard at the right time, I do not think that such a law is necessary. On the other hand, I also wonder that if a person with a memory disorder does not want to wear a GPS bracelet, for example, he will probably take it out of his hand. But if a person has chosen the wristband and its use in good time, he is likely to use it all the time. So there is a huge difference between how we look at this issue. Well, a couple of things I would also like to point out in this connection: After all, in our society we also need more caring, that is, people who dare to ask a stranger if I can help. When you notice a neighbor who seems to need help, such as a memory sick person, or think that this elderly person or this person is now all right, do you think we all have the will, the will, the understanding to go and find out what is at stake? We should not walk past anyone in a situation like this. Well, the third thing, or the fourth, which I would like to say here, is that there are people living at home who are mentally ill and who are no longer safe to live at home. In our society, we say the mantra that it is good for all elderly people to live at home, but I claim that those people have not even been asked whether they want to be at home anymore. So we need more community homes where a person with memory can live a life of his own and receive 24-hour care and care from skilled professionals. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u148	Mr President! I am one of the signatories to this good initiative. I know from experience what it's like to be a relative of a person with memory problems. I know that the worry is constantly present, that what's going on in that memory-deprived home at the moment. And I know that when you go to sleep many times, it's like, what kind of weather is out there, and I hope the family's inside, and it's okay, and I should call you again. I also know that there are many people in the home of a memory sick person who also visit home care, and that home care people also have concerns about whether their work is sufficient, whether they visit there often enough, and also about the fear that when they go home, it will be memory sick at home. For these reasons, I very much welcome this initiative. I also know that the home, however, is a place where a person with memory problems has a familiar and safe environment. And the fact that if he is then taken from home to that institution or place, which is completely foreign, there is also a huge risk that the disease will go faster. And that dear person you know will be gone faster then from the body where he exists. I would like to thank Mr S. S.H.I.E.L.D. warmly for this initiative and I hope that this initiative will move forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u149	Mr President! Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. justified the need for its legislative initiative in a very comprehensive way. The safety of the memory sufferer would be greatly improved if this electronic monitor, as presented, were in a state of memory sickness. But, of course, self-determination issues must be carefully weighed for each person. However, no device must reduce the need for personal care. I also have a good friend whose parents have a serious memory disorder. And there's a tough situation at home when you keep the door locked for nights, and you can't keep it all the time. Sometimes the door is open, and this father has been found many times in the middle of a busy road, yet he would like to be home. For example, it would be justifiable and necessary for such a person to have such a device. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u150	Mr President! Thank you very much to all the fellow Members for a good debate, and especially to more than 100 signatories to this initiative, who, across party boundaries, have stood behind this initiative. This initiative has been signed out of each parliamentary group, which is quite a strong message for the cause. I could say to Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen that the will to treat is very supportive and should be done by everyone. In practice, from childhood onwards, there should be some kind of care will written about what you want in life if you get hurt. But, unfortunately, this is not going to happen on the scale that should be. In the family circle, you have a memory-deprived person who lives on land by himself. Many have already felt that he should no longer live there, but he has decided that he does not want to leave there. And that's it. They're not going anywhere. Last day the keys had been left at home on a dog-walking trip, and that was quite a job looking for the spare keys when home care, where the nearest key would have been at that moment, did not answer. So these things that Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has just mentioned are all worthwhile and good things, but practical life wants to be a little different. Especially since I myself have been in the police for over 20 years and have been on several search missions myself, the message from that professional district has been so many times that locating would save so much grief and effort. When memory disorders are going to increase and I strongly believe that people will be at home, live there for a very long time and will be prolonged, I would see, especially for that reason, that we must have methods to guarantee their safety and living there with dignity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u151	Mr President! We will probably no longer have a very deep debate this late in the evening, but I too would like to stress that I myself have been a family of memory sufferers and I have trained hundreds and hundreds of memory experts in this country, which means that this is a matter of heart to me. And that is why I claim that in this training we should rather focus on making people realize that they want to do it for themselves and that they themselves would have wondered what kind of life and where they want to live. And yes, I have to say that if professionals find a person who is no longer humanly good at living at home, that when he does not want to move out of it it is self-determination, then self-determination has not been properly understood — it is unfailing. In other words, these concepts are little that should always be discussed — if it is a question that it is no longer humanly right for him to live there at home. But this is always the way things are viewed on a case-by-case basis. But my opinion is this: if this matter is raised in good time with the client when he becomes ill with memory sickness, tells him alternatives and let's talk about it, the majority of these people will say that they are happy to take that bracelet because it makes life easier. Then he wears that bracelet because it's his choice. But if he is, as it were, forced into it — “I know what it is, this is chafing on this wrist ” — then he will take off the bomb, and then there will be no benefit. So this is my point on this. I am not opposed to electronic surveillance devices if we start moving from that person on its own.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u152	Mr President! I just agree with Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen that if living at home is no longer human and no longer meets the limits of humanity, then there must be a place of care to move to, or community-based housing or other supported housing. I personally believe that it is good for us to look at these electronic possibilities, including technological solutions, and we must assess them in relation to sovereignty and also in relation to security. As such, this bill comes to a good point, because we are, however, living in a technological development phase in many sectors. One example well described perhaps such a certain kind of indifference when Helsingin Sanomat had an article here some time ago, where it was said that a person had seen an elderly person who was in a nightgown and went somewhere on the subway station. He was then unable to catch him when he had gone into the elevator and remained wondering where he should have reported this person. So it occurred to me that he didn't go after him. Even though we are with people, a certain amount of indifference has also increased that it makes that security aspect really important, whether in the countryside or outside in cold conditions, but also through the possibility of being abused, robbed, assaulted. Safety from that old man's point of view has to be thought of in a lot of ways. It is not a simple matter, but it is certainly something we need to think about and it is before us in any case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u153	Mr President! I would also like to clarify this humanity in this matter. In this case, for example, in my own family, it is a situation in which it is not yet possible to do so, but the doctor cannot make the decision that force should be brought out of it and taken into the same way as continuous treatment. These kind of people who are like in the middle of the world that they do well at home or they don't do well at home, are huge. And most of the time, maybe more about the people that we're talking about, you know, there's a lot of these. And, in fact, this is exactly what we, as officials, are looking for out of the cold. In other words, we have the opportunity to take on those people who really cannot manage at home who, humanly speaking, can no longer be there by themselves, but there are others.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u154	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Mr S. S.H.I.E.L.D. for this bill, which addresses a very important issue, namely the electronic control of people with memory disorders, possibly even the imposition, if there is an immediate risk that a person may be exposed to serious health or safety risks as a result of a memory disorder. Yes, it is good that these electronic aids are also used to monitor people with memory problems. Mr Laiho mentioned here a few words ago that the present time is plagued by indifference. That is undoubtedly true. I think there was another mention on the MTV news yesterday that the young girl had had some kind of a seizure on the street and the passers-by had not been terribly involved. On the other hand, however, it is good to remember that we also have a large number of volunteers and helpers in Finland who have been very altruistic in helping the police several times in the search for missing persons, in many cases the elderly with memory problems. They are people who do a very important and altruistic, almost humanely irreplaceable job. I would also like to thank them publicly here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u155	Mr President! Good things have been said here, and Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen raised this need for treatment, and it is important that it is done in time. Of course, even when there is a will for treatment, but when memory no longer exists, you may not understand why the bracelet is in your hand. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set up such a working group on the modernisation of services for older people, and the task of this working group is to prepare proposals for the reform of the overall service mix and for the preparation of an ageing population. I hope that the issues raised in this work today will be taken into account, that there will be no neglect and that people should live at home as long as possible in safety. At the same time, when we talk about using technology in nursing, we must always remember that technology does not replace a person, a caring person who takes care of an ageing person.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-02-20-ps-10.u156	Mr President! Indeed, there has been a good debate here on some aspects of the matter and on various points of view. I greatly appreciate the view of Mäkisalo-Ropponen that such a will for treatment should be developed in a situation when a person has a full understanding of how things should be affected. However, I see this electronic control primarily as a right. Right to the memory sick, right to the next of kin and also right to the authorities. And from that point of view, I see this bill as worth at least studying. It is a question of us wanting to add two things. One is that we want to increase safety, and the other is that we want to increase things that affect human health. That's what this bill is all about. If this electronic control helps these two issues, I think it is well-founded.
