ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities on TyVM 6/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided. — Chairman of the Committee, represented by Mr Kontula.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u2	Mr President! After all, the proposal proposes an extension of the start-up grant from 12 to 18 months in situations where the start-up grant of the year does not seem sufficient for the start-up entrepreneur, and it also makes a number of minor reliefs to the conditions of unemployment benefit. The changes are all fixed-term. The Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities welcomes the Government's proposal and adds the following: In connection with the government's proposal, network registration as an unemployed job seeker has been found to be so complex that it creates involuntary negligence, i.e. now that a lot of inexperienced unemployed job seekers have entered the network, not everyone has been able to complete this obstacle course and have been left without unemployment benefit. Now this problem is being corrected by law, because it would have been so much slower to correct the information system, but the committee would like to point out that this complexity of the system will not disappear at the end of the interest rate and that a more permanent solution will have to be found in the future. Similarly, the committee points out that, with a number of minor changes to the conditions for unemployment benefit at the time of the interest rate, the system will become more complex and more difficult to manage, and this will require decisive, coherent and comprehensive information both for the target group and for society at large. The committee also draws attention to the fact that in the government's proposal the delay in short-term studies due to the interest rate would not be penalised in a situation where studies started before 15 March. The committee believes that, for reasons of interest, studies can also be delayed when they have started after 15 March, and the committee proposes that the amendment be extended to cover studies started during the interest rate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u3	Mr President! I really want to thank the government in particular for this start-up money job. It was a great thing to get the start-up money up from 12 to 18 months, because it goes without saying that, especially if a company has been set up about a year ago and, in this situation of interest rate, the situation is that the start-up money is running out and that it is running out of business at the same time, that simply means that we have to stop the whole business. I would like to thank the government for this presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u4	Mr President! I have just spoken as chairman of the committee and now as the only left-wing member of the committee. For more than ten years I have been talking in this Chamber and many other agents about the complexity and cafkaism of our social security bureaucracy. As a rule, this speech has sounded to deaf ears and has caused virtually no reaction. Now that we are, as a result of the corona, in a situation where even a little better people are exposed to unemployment security and have to perform the same tasks that the normal unemployed have had to do for years — often people who are part-time incapacitated, often people with different problems in life management, almost always people who are in some kind of crisis as a result of becoming unemployed — now that people are coming there with the skills to use the network and cope with this application are considerably better than the skills of the unemployed under normal conditions, so now, in this situation, we will be able to change the law in weeks to make it easier for that social security bureaucracy. In my view, this is a rather unfortunate attitude towards the unemployed in this society and how bullying the unemployed is legitimate in a way quite different from bullying other groups of people in our society and in our political culture. This attitude problem is also relatively well documented in social science research, so this is certainly not the only example of it, but I am upset that this is so deep in our system that it also affects our legislative work. In my view, it is extremely important that we take this seriously now and that we start from the point of view that, in the case of the unemployed, people are being treated and citizens are being treated according to the same rules of play and the same reasonable conditions that are being applied in society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u5	Mr President! Firstly, thanks to the government for having made this proposal and secondly, thanks to the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities for reacting so quickly. This is a genuine problem, and this is now a genuine problem for the ordinary, above all, self-employed, whom we have talked a lot about here, who do not want to get through this bureaucracy, not at all, especially since they have not previously been involved in similar forms of support. In these forms of support, the forms are made in the format that is, as it were, a normal unemployed job seeker, and at this point it does not work. And so it makes sense that, among other things, this work plan should now be deleted, because most of these self-employed people have the same work plan: I want to maintain my small business, whose income base has fallen here. It makes sense that such a work plan does not need to be repeated. The form is exceptionally problematic in that electronic format. In that sense, there would have to be other formats. In addition to bureaucratic obstacles, we still have a language barrier, because very many self-employed people, small businesses, are in fact of foreign origin, and this is a problem for the people of the immigrant population at the moment. When the chairman of the committee said just now that there is a great need for information here, which the committee calls for, it is. This information is also provided not only in Finnish and Swedish but also in English, preferably also in Russian, because so many self-employed people in this situation have thrown an axe into the well and said that we cannot receive this support, it is not possible, this system does not work. There is now a great need to help these small businesses in such a way that we can sustain them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u6	Mr President! Mr Kontula also made two very good contributions and raised a serious problem: the application for social security and, in this case too, the complexity and difficult use of the online service of this job search, which he has already drawn attention to in the past. I think that these experiences, which have now been gathered and which, as it were, have yet to come to light in a special way when this user base has expanded, should be taken seriously. Now that we are reforming social security, it would be very valuable in this context to take these experiences into account. This period of corona epidemic has now become, as it were, quite a window of some kind for these problems of this whole and for the lack of clarity and difficulty in using them, and more permanent solutions would have to be found.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u7	Mr President! I would also like to thank the government and the committee for this proposal, and just as the previous speaker has mentioned, I would also like to thank Mr Kontula for his very good contributions. With many unemployed and part-time workers at the wheel of bureaucracy, many disadvantaged people have had to fight for years, decades, and now this issue comes up on such a fast schedule when a wider group of people are caught up in this same bureaucratic wheel, it is, of course, a pity that we are now changing this, but let us say now that if the corona epidemic is perhaps pushing something good forward, then let it be a good thing. Times, times, we have been talking about the fact that while digitalisation and these opportunities for automation bring a lot of good, the certain simple way of getting things done in person must be kept in these different sectors. The extension of the maximum duration of the start-up grant from that year and a half is a very, very necessary and good change, as is the fact that the application period is not interrupted, even if some inquiries have not been properly completed within the time limit or certain study issues will be included. These are very good and necessary changes. Of course, all in all, in that Committee on the Future, we have also talked a lot about the rapid change in society, about what it will bring: what good, what opportunities this digitalisation will bring, but what challenges it will also bring. In a certain way over and over again, I myself, as a health professional and a lot of work in the social sector, have underlined this particular simple possibility of having to go face-to-face with the official to take care of matters and receive the necessary support, and if there are red tape challenges, then they should not be detrimental to the applicant. In that way, it is high time we had flexibility and humanity in these matters. Thank you to the government and the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u8	Mr President! I should also like to correct the statement made by Mr Kiljunen, because there was a factual error: All those who log in to these registers are jobseekers. Anyone who also wants unemployment benefit is unemployed jobseekers. This is also true for entrepreneurs, and entrepreneurs are not in any special position in relation to others, that the system is somehow particularly difficult for them. We have, among other things, 5000 people who are proven and undisputedly incapacitated — not part-time, but fully incapacitated, even hospice people — and who are forced to register in the system as unemployed job seekers in order to gain their own basic security. So even a person in hospice care in our system may have to check out that he is an unemployed job seeker for basic security. Indeed, in such a system, the problems are far more widespread and not just because a new group, the entrepreneurs — who are otherwise not a new group for unemployment benefit — come within its scope. What separates entrepreneurs from others is that they have a lobby that is being listened to. As a result, when a large number of entrepreneurs — and entrepreneurs in a slightly better position — have to wade through that system, it suddenly wakes up that ah, this system is absurd. There is no other real difference in relation to all the other people who have had to use this system over the years and who have had very little confidence in the system – and why not when using this system?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u9	Mr President! There is no point in me getting wise about who is right and who is wrong, but I have understood this process in such a way that, in the past, a self-employed entrepreneur, who has his own company, has not been able to register as unemployed and maintain his business while at the same time seeking employment. With the new legislation, we have made it possible for the self-employed to continue to keep their business and to continue working within it, and this is the new argument which I believe is now being made with these new temporary measures, and in this respect, I believe that the self-employed entrepreneur is different from the other unemployed job seekers, i.e. he can register as the operator of his own company in the future and still receive labour market support. I understand that this is the situation — it may be that I am completely wrong not to sit in the Committee on Employment and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u10	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u11	Mr President, värderade talman! The epidemic of interest has affected us all in different ways. For some it has meant caring for children at home, for others it has meant distance from loved ones, for many it has meant concern for themselves and others. The economic situation of some has changed suddenly, and coping with everyday life has become more difficult. For some it has meant to lay off or even to lose a job. In these challenging times, it is very important for households to plan their economies in a long-term and sustainable way. However, the exceptional situation, combined with active and even aggressive marketing of various credits, is an unfortunate combination. The government wants to support citizens and safeguard their rights, especially at a time like this when many people are forced to take debt to overcome the crisis. That is why we are now discussing a government proposal aimed at ensuring that the interest rate on credit is moderate and that decisions on borrowing can be made in peace without aggressive marketing. This will facilitate the position of the consumer and reduce debt problems. The Government does not want Finns to over-indebtedness because of aggressive marketing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u12	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for a good presentation of this government's proposal. As we know, over-indebtedness and financial difficulties are unfortunately true in the everyday lives of many Finns, and it is known that this corona crisis will make life even more difficult for many Finns. I believe that this proposal, which would set this 10% ceiling on consumer credit, is justified. At first, at least I also had a number of concerns about this preparation, that is, how this proposal will be implemented. Fortunately, however, the Minister and the Ministry have also considered very well how this proposal has been implemented, as this regulation excludes, for example, the possibility of e-commerce part-payment, car financing and these over-the-counter credit cards. Although this is a major social problem, which is certainly gaining a lot of support in this Chamber between the various parties, I still think it is important that this regulation should be targeted precisely where the major problems are, and not in this situation, when we also have to ensure that private consumption remains at some decent level, come to those who, however, have the opportunity to consume and use these services, the disproportionate disadvantage of tackling other problems. I would have seen that this broader regulation would not have been justified in this case, but I think that this has been properly and well defined, and this will then also prevent many other problems which might have been raised here again. Mr. Speaker! It is true that, in addition to this, we also need to consider other ways. In fact, I could ask the Minister: how is the preparation of a positive credit register at the moment going in the ministry? That is an essential instrument in that different creditors will then also be able to see what this applicant's real ability to pay is. At the moment, there are obvious shortcomings that these applicants may have different credit lines from several sources and it is difficult to get an overall picture of what the applicant's real ability to pay is. I would like to see that, in addition to this regulation, there is also a need for more comprehensive assistance, then regulation to ensure that these problems can then be genuinely prevented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u13	Mr President! Indeed, I am very much in favour of this proposal. Of course, the only thing I thought was: why is this being made temporary, why can't it be made full-time? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u14	Mr President! It is also gratifying to hear the opposition speak in support of this government's proposal to set such a ceiling on consumer credit. We are all well aware that this fast-paced system, which has become widespread in Finland with huge interest rates, has led to very difficult over-indebtedness situations, and it is now emphasised in this context of the interest rate: when households have financial problems anyway, this over-indebtedness may very well become critical. In this respect, the government has taken this issue very well, and now, by the end of the year, we are going to have this new type of interest rate cap. What is also excellent about this proposal is that even this aggressive advertising, which is often the subject of direct advertising, is now being put into practice at this point, and thank you for that too. In fact, I agree with the previous speech in that I myself myself have been thinking about the temporary reforms that have been made during this corona virus, that there may be a lot of things and ideas that could be carried beyond this corona, and that there have been various remote activities, among other things. Here, too, is a good example of the need to study this, this whole quick-wipe system, trying to regulate it in some way, because we see it in a very real life that too many people have fallen into a vicious, vicious spiral of over-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u15	Mr President! I also think that this is a very good and expected reform. We have many over-indebted ones, and even if we have not yet been so over-indebted, so when there is aggressive direct marketing of such things — as it has been said for some operators that it is widely carried out — it is very good that it is now being disciplined against this bill as well. A temporary ceiling of 10% — well, good that it went to 10%, I would have liked to see it perhaps even lower. On the other hand, what Mr Laakso raised here in the first place, why this would not be a permanent change, was also in my mind. I would like to ask the Minister: has this been thought of not only as this sort of temporary but actually, when there are such aggressive direct marketing and all the problems associated with it, and yet it is widely known that there is such a thing in our society, and, on the other hand, have we thought about this problem of over-indebtedness and this route, which is actually one of the easy gateways to go to the way of over-indebtedness, that for us we could be bridle that problem and help these people who have been in trouble? So I would like to ask: has this been considered as an opportunity during this reign perhaps to maintain a longer period of validity, to bring the proposal in such a way that it will be left permanent? Actually, there's another thing I was wondering about: However, when this ceiling applies only on 1.7th, even though the law comes into force on 1.5th, why is this two-month cap here? Was this a necessity to do so?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u16	Mr President! I do not think that there are at least no Members of Parliament in this Chamber who, at some point, would not have written their name on a piece of paper aimed at curbing these speed levers. This is the common will of the Parliament. I understand that the fundamental human rights include the freedom to conduct a business and the government must promote it and have property protection and so away, but it has been very difficult for me over time to understand that we allow such capital circles, which are behind them in fact, to seek return on equity and to use a lever even through loans, and the result is that gambling problems are getting worse, and of course it is always bad, no matter who gets into an over-indebted state, because it is extremely serious mentally and often leads to very bad situations. In fact, it is worth the legislators to question this temporaryity a little, because we know there are a lot of young people who will then be caught up in this kind of debt cycle when they are young and a little ununderstandable, and it is due to a variety of other failings in life management again. Which one was first, egg or chicken, it's another thing, but when they get deep enough into these things they'll never make it from there to work, and in the end this will be so expensive for society that you already have to raise the question that whether it's justified even through the constitution to go to protect this kind of business, which in practice destroys people and specifically young people and takes away their life lunches after all for the rest of your life. This is no small thing, because the knowledge that comes to me from different sources is that these young people and these people are beginning to be half a million so that this is about to destabilise our economy and the sustainability of public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u18	Mr President! There have been very good speeches here, and certainly from the edge of the Chamber to the very edge where the representatives are present, there is agreement on these ceilings and the marketing ban. I myself got my first life today from the marketing agency, and on the basis of the fact that I was signed by one of the companies, the corporate loan was offered by text. I didn't even go to see what interest there was, but it was kind of a surprise. In fact, it was very good what Mr Estilä raised in that speech. The problem is with these young people, but also with our middle-aged people, who are facing an acute situation. When you do not have a choice to fix the acute situation — when the washing machine breaks down in a low - income family, you do not get money in that washing machine, borrow from a bank, borrow from a friend or anywhere else — then the only option is a quick lever. A little while ago, I am challenging this Chamber that when we get over this interest rate, would we dare to talk together about this social credit and its development as an alternative that could work through, for example, Kela or something else? This has been a bit of a hot potato that has not been properly discussed because it is considered to be too left-wing or something. But now that we're in that position. . .
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u21	Mr President! I had to ask to speak again after the good speech by Mr Estilä, and I can give you a very personal experience in this matter. When I was younger, I was raised by a single mother, and then when I got to the age of having credit cards, there was the golden end of the '80s, and I got tired of passing all the cards and putting myself in the position that at last, when they had to be paid, it was the year 2000. It took more than ten years of working two weeks for me to remember that I spent almost 200 hours at work and on a continuous pitch in a two-week period for at least 120 hours, that is, even having the ability to pay those things in a completely different way than the one in normal work, that is to say, saying that I would have been as normal as a worker in the industry, so good that I would not continue to pay those debts, and only because of what Estila just brought out, the stupidity that is young when you can't think about it. It just seems so easy at that point, and you think I'm gonna get some work done and I'm gonna get it paid for some time later. It's an endless cycle after what you're not going to get out of, and yes, I think there's really gotta be some way... It's in the best interests of all of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u22	Honorable Speaker! This is a good draft law, but what concerns and wonders here is the statement in Article 3(5) that this does not apply to commodity-linked credits. Why is this so? It is true that these commodity-linked credits are quite expensive, too, but why has this been achieved? Can we open this up a little bit? If a committee comes to such an idea in the form of an effort or otherwise, in some circumstances this could also be applied to these commodity-linked credits, how will such an issue be dealt with if there is still a second thought?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u23	Mr President! Thank you all for your good contributions and also thank the opposition for this encouragement. It is great that we can agree on this, that this is the law that we need now. After all, we want to help those who are now in a very difficult situation, and in that sense too, this 10% ceiling is welcome. Here's a lot of good questions. Congressman Marttinen asked about this positive credit register. The situation here is that the steering group has been set up and two sub-groups have been set up. They are working and they have been given a deadline: 30.11.2021 they should have a type of performance. A positive credit repository is extremely important, but also a complex, rather difficult project, and it is important to bring about good legislation that also works in practice and has a level of data protection that can be trusted by citizens and also by creditors. Mr Laakso and also Mr Kiljunen and Mr Tanus asked why this could not now be made permanent legislation. Well, we are now making legislation for this particular state of emergency, precisely for the circumstances in which we have come. It also means that the normal legislative principles have not been complied with here, that is, this is not a proposal that has taken place in a broad consultation. If we were to have a permanent change of law, then this legislative work should be done thoroughly. It is certainly the case that we now have experience of how this will work, the effects it will have, and it also applies to this marketing sector. Surely it will provide us with the kind of experience that we will then be able to use in the future. Then there was the question as to why this two-month deadline. Congressman Tanus, it is now the case that for new so-called quick loans this 10 percent would come into force immediately on 1.5., but then there are such previous contracts that have been concluded for example before 1.9.2019 when came the 20 percent interest rate cap. In order that those people who have this agreement, which also allows them to raise the loan further, and who have raised the loans, do not get into a situation where they can charge an even higher interest rate, this time limit has been set. It has been put in place precisely because they would not be terminated immediately either, because it would be the second risk that these loans as a whole would now be terminated. In this way, we also want to safeguard the consumer's chances of obtaining a loan. Well, then, Mr Slunga-Poutsalo raised the issue of social credit. I also think it is something that needs to be clarified, and it is on the STM table, and there is also a record of it in the Government Programme. Mr Vähämäki then asked why these commodity-linked credits were not included. Perhaps I can say this frankly: both the message of the Bank of Finland and the message of the Confederation of Financial Services was that if this were to be done, there would be a risk that the situation of many individuals would be jeopardised, because there would be a risk that creditors would terminate these agreements, and that is why we did not want to go into this. But of course this is an issue on which we can also hear more in committee, and we must hear why. I personally believe that this is now the right course of action and policy, and it concerns precisely those credits that can be raised directly in the form of money. It is now the take home message, i.e. when you come up with a quick loan that can be raised directly in cash, its maximum interest rate is now up to 10 per cent during this exceptional period and until the end of the year. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u24	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Economic Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u25	Mr President! Finnvera Oy, a special financing company of the state, plays an important role in domestic financing. The company is primarily a sponsor of SMEs but can also finance large companies, such as midcaps, for a specific reason. Finnvera can grant credit and guarantees to the company. Finnvera’s operations are based on the focus on addressing shortcomings in the provision of financial services. In the same way, the company is not in competition with private financial institutions, but with its financial products it complements the financing of banks. As part of the COVID-19 measures, the Government has decided to secure Finnvera's funding opportunities even under these exceptional circumstances. The Government proposes to increase Finnvera's financial mandate from the current EUR 4.2 billion to EUR 12 billion. When Finnvera’s financial exposure is currently around EUR 2 billion, it means that Finnvera can grant new loans and loans up to EUR 10 billion. This is an important signal to the market when the State guarantee authority is sufficient and able to respond to an increased need. It is intended that the majority of the funding should be provided in the form of guarantees for loans granted by banks. The number of customers, the network of services and the number of employees working at the customer interface are many times higher than Finnvera. It is possible to react quickly to a strong increase in financing demand through banks. The number of applications for funding submitted to Finnvera has increased sharply during the epidemic period. The number of Finnvera funding applications has increased by 84 per cent from the beginning of April to the end of this year. The number of decisions taken has increased by 89% compared to the same time last year. Finnvera has paid particular attention to the fact that decisions can be implemented within a reasonable period of time for companies by significantly increasing resources. The SME Guarantees account for more than half of all projects and their processing time is one day or two. Often the customer gets his decision on the same day. Other applications for funding are currently being processed on average within about a week. The increased permission to grant guarantees would be provisionally in force until the end of December 25, when Finnvera’s liability base is estimated to have recovered to the current level. This is also an important measure aimed at reducing the contingent liabilities of the State when there is no need for them anymore. The Government's decision of 23 April to give Finnvera Oy an undertaking to partially compensate for credit and guarantee losses is essentially attached to the Government's proposal. This commitment will enter into force on 1 May 2020. The purpose of the commitment is for the State to take over a larger share of Finnvera’s credit and guarantee losses. At present, the 50% compensation rate will be increased to 80%. The increase in the compensation rate allows Finnvera to increase its contribution to corporate financing. The increase in the contribution is also accompanied by a guidance letter from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy to Finnvera, according to which Finnvera’s contribution to individual financing projects will be increased to 80 per cent of the total funding. In the case of guarantees, this means that the bank will be able to obtain a guarantee of 80 % of its loans to the SME. In addition, following the adoption of the later notification, it is intended to decide on the measures that may be taken in accordance with the Commission communication on a temporary framework for State aid measures to support the economy in the current context of an epidemic. The increase in the State’s compensation share has already made it possible for Finnvera to reduce its guarantee fees. In the case of large companies, it is proposed to repeal the provision of the Act that a guarantee of more than 35 million for an investment loan should be subject to the consent of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. At present, consent is not required to grant the same amount of credit. The aim is to improve Finnvera’s decision-making. In the future, the amount of funding for large companies will be guided by Finnvera’s commitment to partially offset credit and guarantee losses in order to reduce the financial impact of the interest rate epidemic and, in particular, the liquidity crisis. Funding would also be granted to large companies, such as midcaps, where there is a particular reason for this. The increase in the financial mandate is significant. It is estimated that the interest rate crisis increases the risk of Finnvera's funding from the current loss rate of between 2 % and 3 % of its exposure to the loss rate of between 4 % and 5 % of its exposure. In view of the increased risk of financing, it is estimated that each additional 1 billion financing will result in a loss of EUR 100 to 120 million in loss compensation over the lifetime of the funding. The duration of the impact is estimated at five years in the calculation. Thus, if the EUR 10 billion financial mandate were to be fully used, the resulting total cost of credit and guarantee loss compensation for the State would be estimated at between EUR 1 billion and EUR 1.2 billion during the period of financing. It is very difficult to assess the level of financial demand, so the assessment of government expenditure is also very challenging. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Government's aim is to significantly increase the role of Finnvera and hence the State in the financing of loans and guarantees by companies in these exceptional times of interest rate crisis, in order to enable companies to continue profitable business operations as conditions normalise. In these difficult economic circumstances, the important objective is also to create confidence in the profitability of business and to minimise the cost of future business recovery.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u26	Honorable Speaker! First of all, it is a good thing that this guarantee capacity is being increased as is done in this government proposal, and even when the distribution of these guarantee liabilities has been 50/50 in the past, now it is 20/80, it has been mentioned as much as 10/90. Let's see where it goes from here. This was one of the first announcements the government made that they were going to increase this capacity. Now it is actually being raised. Rapid communication and the timing of the right measures are the key issues in how to deal with such economic situations, and I am actually going to go into the discussion that has taken place about Business Finland on such a large scale. Every time we do something, we have the timing of that procedure. Then we have the size of that procedure. Then we have the procedure for doing something about it. And now we were pretty much in agreement in this Chamber, too, when those additions were made to Business Finland. We agreed that the measures, the timings are good, they are also the right size, and the opposition was called for a little more firepower, and that is what happened in the second additional budget. Unfortunately, however, we in this Chamber did not really discuss the procedure, the way in which these subsidies should be distributed. It was perhaps the weak link in the committee's report and also the weak link in the debate. We completely forgot about the procedure. Now that we also look at this matter, we should talk here about the procedure: by what procedure do we actually grant this guarantee there? I have now just drawn attention to the fact that this paragraph 4 will be deleted from here. The question now arises as to what is the monitoring mechanism to be applied for, for example. What authority, if it were to happen, would be some huge guarantee liability there. I don't know how this is gonna happen. I hope there's no such thing as a situation that all of a sudden it's said, okay, there's a guarantee like this and a credit this big, and now we're in trouble because of it. Indeed, we should always remember that there is often agreement on the timing and size of the measures, but more should be said about the procedures, and that would be the message. And it must also be noted that those committees' reports should focus on these procedural issues and on how they can then be passed on. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u27	Mr President! Representative Little hill talked a long way about the same thing that I think about myself. I don't think this is a place for smart-ass people to know. There's no such thing as right and wrong. But the starting point, at least how I feel about this whole problem, is that when the market runs out and the cash flow runs out, the problem is obviously that the money does not come into the cash register but the fixed costs remain. This leads to this problem of negative cash flow, and it is quite embarrassing for some companies because they do not have buffers. Then we have companies with a good balance sheet and there is something to be shared and it is not a problem for the company, provided that it does not have a crazy length of time. If, however, we now seem to get out of this corona crisis and the market — as it now seems — starts to open up and gradually pull, then this funding, whether from the ECB or from any other bank in Finland to business certificates or from Business Finland, Finnvera or Ely Centre, should respond to the problem that arises for the particular business sector. I am thinking of this Finnvera, too, that the government rightly made it possible for Finnvera to guarantee and the State to share, but now that it seems that this is not the guarantee that is being asked, then we will have to think about what the problem is and whether it can be corrected by something, for example by raising this 90% guarantee percentage of Finnvera. There's got to be something for those companies. We know, and the Minister has already said something about this, that even the commission that Finnvera inherits has been calculated. These have both been 80, and then comes the calculation of this commission from the normal, because Finnvera must somehow see to it that they cannot now give out the state and taxpayers' money indefinitely. After all, when we talk about the price of money, we cannot just stare at Finnvera, but we have to look at that part of the bank. Of course, the bank’s share depends on the type of person who asks. Of course, if you're dealing with the hickey companies, the price of money is also going to go up at the bank. Then we will have to see what is the repayment period for this loan, whether it is too short, whether it should be 10 years, and how banks should stretch their own commission downwards and Finnvera downwards, and whether it should be raised to 90%. The question is, would that help after all? If some of these have now been asked for more than 200 million or something, it is very little in relation to this magnitude of the problem. It is a good thing that this proposal is coming here and we are considering this together, but I believe that the government is, of course, having these debates among them as to whether this instrument can still be sharpened in some way and whether it can still be put in order and then what is the risk level for the taxpayers, because if the price of that money is something, if it is pushed down time, then it must also be known in some way that the applicant for the loan will have a return on equity and loan capital. There's never anyone who can be loaned. This is my idea if it will help us in this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u28	Mr President! First of all, I appreciate the fact that the Minister will present this matter on Friday afternoon at this time. I understand that this presentation is being made because it is an exceptionally large operation, however. It is quite clear that the increase in Finnvera's loan and guarantee liabilities is exceptionally large here. If I understood correctly, the financial powers will rise from 2 billion to 10 billion — I wonder if it is the biggest in Finnvera’s history — so significant a change will be made here in view of this exceptional situation. I assume that not only the government parties here support the government in this action, but, in this critical situation, we need this process, from which the Minister has also used the wording, that Finnvera guarantees and, ultimately, the banks now distribute this, because it is the most important part of the guarantee here, and so far I assume, on the basis of these two opposition statements which have been heard, that the opposition will also support this. Representative Vähämäki here referred to this debate on Business Finland, which also clearly contained the fact that the opposition strongly supported the government's actions, even so that in the amending budget, among other things, the coalition doubled the funding for Business Finland under the conditions that the government had set up, because the amending budget stated that the government was doing the right thing here. In that respect, the debate on Business Finland here yesterday was somewhat hypocritical in some ways. Now that we are dealing with this Finnvera, I would like to say that in future we will also recognise that yes, for Business Finland, there was a clear set of guidelines and the criteria were in line with what has been laid down by the legislation for Business Finland — it can, of course, be corrected — and here too, in Finnvera, we act in accordance with the legislation. And I would hope that this will not be the case at a later stage to be wise enough to say that it should have been done differently, even though the opposition itself has also supported the government in this respect. Big, big steps are taken. The government has vigorously taken up these issues. All support for these efforts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u29	Mr President! When the government took action to deal with this acute corona crisis, I think it was a package of almost EUR 15 billion or EUR 14 billion that was then marketed, but the fact is that the majority of this volume was, of course, guaranteed loan financing, and of course this Finn-vera instrument was the most important of them. I believe that this proposal is in itself a step in the right direction. Of course you're here, Congressman. Eestilä made a good speech about the fact that it appears both in the light of these figures and in the light of the feedback that has come, at least as a representative of the region, that Finnvera's guarantee may not have been as originally planned by the government. There must be a lot of different reasons for that. For some companies, the coverage of this other part of the guarantee can be challenging, on the other hand, the financing costs of this loan facility have been relatively high, although now, of course, the amount of the guarantee commission has been checked. It would be good to hear from the Minister how you now see in a large scale and in a picture how the attractiveness of this instrument can then also be increased in terms of the business field. Many entrepreneurs have also felt that it is, in principle, wrong that a crisis for which no one has been able to prepare has been primarily offered this increase in loan funding, and I do well understand these SMEs who have said so. Mr. Speaker! To conclude, I would like to say that, although all means are needed, the fact that we cannot ignore in this debate is that the Finnish State's liability for guarantees is extremely high, we are talking about a total of more than EUR 60 billion, and we are quite at the top of our national economy. This is also a good thing to remember because our entire public finances are relatively vulnerable to many other Western countries at the moment, and although these measures are needed, it is certainly appropriate then, after this crisis, for the government also to go through and look at the increase in the stock of guarantees, because if this development continues to be so great, I will anticipate that it will also be a problem for us at some point. But at the moment, the most important thing is to deal with this acute crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u30	Mr President! This is really the kind of job that Finnvera’s guarantees have not been so big in the end game before — of course they’re going to hit it now — or at least the utilisation rate that has been, and of course it’s largely because Finnvera has been a little expensive and not always so easy. Then there are even situations where the end game has not at first been given, and then, when it is, it would have been done elsewhere, so that it may not always have acted as an element as it should have been. It was a personal experience in the past that transport companies are said not to be supported because it distorts competition, which, in my opinion, was a little strange, because what is the sector that would not distort competition? Today I do not even understand why Finnvera's support was not received, because it was only a small part of our total trade and it would have saved our company. But let them be, they're old stuff, there's no need to change them. But the situation is at this point when we are talking about these guarantees and now when we are talking about a loan and we are asking for a 20% guarantee in it — and I have spoken about it in the past — that I would be happy to see a situation in which there is a 100% guarantee in respect of the remuneration of workers. Clearly there is a situation in the field now that when you think about whether or not you can do something, even if you paint the boards and put them in storage, you could use the workers and expect that when at some point those boards are at that price, you can get yours out of them. But now the entrepreneur has to wonder if he dares take the risk of putting his own treasuries in order to secure the bank’s guarantees. The situation is that it often wonders whether it is worth playing, because the situation is that then, in the event of a pine cone, despite the fact that there is a limited liability company, when there is a tusk in the bank's loans, it has to be paid anyway, even if it is a limited liability company. So I would ask the ministers: is there any possibility that Finnvera's wages will be guaranteed 100 %?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u31	Mr President! The problem with Finland is that we are already in a bit of a bad position when it comes to Sweden and Germany, and that is reflected in our measures and in the amount of funding after all. We have had a negative current account for eight years, and 2018 According to the Bank of Finland's statistics, it was EUR 4.4 billion. It tells us that we have lived on a loan, foreign investors, for the last eight years and even longer, when we remember the previous financial crisis. Now we have to assess, for example, this funding for Finnvera: When we loosen up these conditions and reduce the duration to ten years and take free years, it will be a loss, that is quite clear, but the way against the loss I think we should be mirroring is that when we had high unemployment rates a few years ago, Hesari at least calculated that the direct cost of unemployment was 6.6 billion. Then, when we begin to calculate ourselves little of the indirect costs it actually entails, we may be getting closer to 10 billion. Then we have to put up with the fact that this Finnvera guarantee system is going to come into the coat, so to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u34	Would the Minister like to comment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u35	Mr President! In short, and mainly here, which was such, could you say, a common question about the fact that, although the conditions have been improved all along, the proportion of Finnvera has been raised to 80, the percentage has been dropped, and still does not want to sell. This is an interesting situation. And when there have been different stages of this whole process and crisis, this is one of the things that has surprised me, because I am very actively in contact with banks, i.e. with the management of all major banks. And it comes from not asking for credit, companies don't ask. In my opinion, there is a logical reason: when there is no countershore in sight, there is no courage to take credit. I think it's completely human. The entrepreneur is in a situation where you don’t know what’s going on, and then, especially if the company is such that you can put a little bit like it in the naphtaline, keep it there, with the slightly extinguished lantern driving away, then why are you going to pick it up? I think this is the most important thing. As soon as we get that view, I'm sure that this funding will go off then, but it will require it. And, unfortunately, I believe that it is going to move a little now in that bigger ones are going to come in there. Some of them come here on the Finnvera side, but then you start taking them on the Tes side. I'm afraid that's how it's going to go now. Yes, I see it as the hardest part. There has not been a debate on the fact that 100% of wages are due, and then, on the other hand, every once in a while, there is a debate about the need to take away the entire commission of Finnvera. It will not succeed again, because then it would be read in support of the state. So there must be a certain “fee ” on the Finnvera side, however. But I definitely think the biggest challenge is that there is no view of where you are taking the credit. If you knew what direction it is and what happens next, that would be completely different. But thank you for a constructive debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-24-ps-62.u36	Mr President! I thank the Minister for being here on Friday and for taking part in the debate. I would also like to point out that, when we think about this whole, which Finnvera is seeking, we must also see that our level of investment, specifically the level of investment in the private sector, is too low. Then we have expenditure on product frameworks, research and innovation. They represent 2.7% of GDP. We have many factors that cause that foggyness. Now that companies see where Finland is going when the starting point is not good, I understand that loans are not sought and there is not really investment and there is no investment in product development when people are afraid of the post-disease when they go to tend to it, when taxes are raised on electricity taxes when things get balanced in the public sector. That's where the horror comes from. Now, as a government, you have a hard time with how you are actually going to make the structural changes that will restore this belief and increase the employment rate. - Thank you.
