ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u1	The second item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 2/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period. In this context, discussion is also allowed on the 3rd issue of the agenda. — — — — Mr Ojala-Niemelä, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u2	Mr President! In the General Assembly on 17 March 1920, the Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Articles 86, 88, 93 to 95 and 109 of the Emergency Act has been adopted by the Government. This is an implementing regulation in accordance with Section 6 of the Emergency Response Act. On 17 March 2020, the plenary session of the Parliament sent the matter to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the preparation of the report. Paragraphs 6(3) and 4 of the Emergency Act concern the proceedings in Parliament. Paragraph 3 of this provision requires that the adoption regulation be referred to Parliament immediately. Parliament shall decide whether the regulation is to remain in force or whether it is to be partially or totally repealed and whether it is to be in force for a fixed or shorter period. If the adoption regulation has not been submitted to Parliament within one week of its adoption, the regulation will expire. Once the decision referred to in paragraph 3 has been taken by Parliament, the provisions of the adoption regulation may begin to apply to the extent that Parliament has not decided that the regulation should be repealed. The introduction of the powers of the Act of Preparedness is conditional on the existence of exceptional circumstances in the country. On 16 March 1920, following cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Government has recognised the existence of exceptional circumstances in the country. The decision was taken in accordance with Article 3(22) of the Government Statute at the General Assembly of the Government. The decision entered into force immediately and is valid for an indefinite period. The decision is accompanied by a memorandum of reasons describing in more detail the reasons for establishing exceptional circumstances. The decision of the Government was based on the COVID-19 epidemic caused by the corona virus, which was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization on 11 March 1920, and its serious effects on Finland. When considering the decision, the Government considers that the need for medical care caused by the corona virus may prove to be extremely high and that the medical staff will be severely burdened. Therefore, it is important to slow down the progression of the disease in Finland so that a smaller number of Finns get sick in a hospitalised way at the same time compared to a situation where action under the Emergency Act would not be taken. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, Finland is close to the threshold of a dangerous domestic epidemic and the epidemic is likely to spread at different rates across the country. According to the drafts of the Act on Preparedness, it is a widespread infectious disease even when it has not yet come to Finland. As a whole, the fulfilment of Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act requires that the disease is a very widespread epidemic, a pandemic, and that it is comparable to a major accident with a particularly serious effect, which refers, inter alia, to exceptional damage and to the high number of victims. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of the regulation and the other report received by the committee, the exceptional circumstances in the country referred to in Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act. The said provision of the law provides for a very widespread dangerous infectious disease with a particularly serious impact in the event of a major accident. According to the Government Decree, the applicable powers of the Act on Emergency Response are such that they can be applied under the exceptional circumstances provided for in Article 3(5) in view of their scope regulation. The Government’s adoption regulation does not include the powers to be imposed on the basis of Article 3(3) of the Emergency Act. The exceptional circumstances justifying the exercise of exceptional powers may be present only if the powers exercised by the authorities under normal conditions are not sufficient to manage the situation. According to the Government’s assessment of the situation, maintaining the functioning of the health system requires not only the powers of the Act on communicable diseases but also the introduction of the powers provided for in the Act on Emergency Response. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the maintenance of the functioning of the health system during a pandemic is a very strong argument from the point of view of the fundamental rights system, which is linked to the obligation of the public authorities under Article 7(1) of the Constitution to safeguard everyone's right to life and also to ensure adequate health services for everyone under pandemic conditions, to promote the health of the population and to justify extraordinarily far-reaching public intervention, including those lacking in fundamental human rights. In view of the very strong objectives to be set for the introduction of the Emergency Act in the event of a pandemic, in order to safeguard the functioning of the health system and thereby to combat serious threats to human life and health, the Constitutional Committee does not consider powers to be in themselves contrary to the requirement of proportionality. The adoption of the Act on Preparedness would limit the application of powers at this stage until 13 April 2020, i.e. the regulation would be in force at this stage for less than one month, i.e. a relatively short period. According to Article 5 of the Government Decree, the obligations of health care personnel under Section 95(2) of the Emergency Act can be applied throughout the national territory. The obligation to work is covered by the package of provisions of Chapter 14 of the Emergency Response Act. The chapter contains provisions such as restrictions on the issuing of a work order, considerations to be taken into account when issuing a work order and the conditions of the employment relationship. However, these provisions of the Emergency Act are not introduced under the Government Decree. For example, Articles 98 to 101 They are bound by the obligation to work so that their application On the other hand, according to Article 6 of the Emergency Act, provision must be made for the application of each of the provisions of Part II of the Emergency Act by a Government decree. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it necessary that the status and rights of a worker be protected in the manner provided for in Chapter 14 of the Emergency Act or by other provisions of at least equivalent level. When the powers of Chapter 14 have not been explicitly introduced and no explanation of any other applicable legislation has been presented, the Constitutional Committee considers that Article 5 of the Regulation on the introduction of the Constitutional Treaty must now be repealed. Provision may be made for the introduction of an obligation to work if, at the same time, other rules relating to the status and rights of the person liable to work are applied, or otherwise the legal arrangements are provided for in Chapter 14. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that Article 4 of the Act allows the powers of the Emergency Act to be exercised only in such ways as are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued by the exercise of the power to act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has considered the provisions of Article 4 on the principles of the exercise of powers to be essential from the point of view of the requirement for proportionality of fundamental rights restrictions and has stressed that these principles restrict both the introduction of powers and their use in exceptional circumstances. Mr President! The draft decision of the Constitutional Committee is that Article 5 of the Government Decree on the introduction of powers provided for in Articles 86, 88, 93 to 95 and 109 of the Emergency Act repeal and, in other respects, the Regulation may remain in force and that Article 3 of the Regulation: There must be a technical change to the report. Obviously, in this context, I can also present this latter point: On 17 March 1920, the Government adopted a regulation on the introduction of the powers to direct health care provided for in Article 87 of the Emergency Act, pursuant to Article 7 of the Emergency Act. According to the main rule of Section 6 of the Emergency Act, the commissioning decree referred to in the Emergency Act must be referred immediately to Parliament. According to Article 6(3) of the Act on Preparedness, Parliament decides whether the regulation may remain in force or whether it should be partially or totally repealed and whether it will be in force for a fixed or shorter period. Pursuant to Article 6(4) of the Emergency Act, once a decision has been taken by the Parliament, the provisions mentioned in the adoption regulation may begin to apply in so far as the Parliament has not decided that the regulation should be repealed. Pursuant to Article 7(1) of the Act on Preparedness, where it is not possible to follow the normal procedure laid down in Article 6(3) and (4) without significantly jeopardising the achievement of the purpose of the Act, a Government decree may provide that the provisions of Part II of the Act on Powers may be applied immediately. According to Article 7(2) of the Emergency Act, such a regulation may be adopted for a maximum period of three months and must be referred to Parliament immediately. If the regulation has not been forwarded to Parliament within one week of its adoption, the regulation will expire. The regulation must be repealed in part or in full if the Parliament so decides. The introduction of the powers of the Act of Preparedness is conditional on the existence of exceptional circumstances in the country. On 16 March 1920, following cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Government has identified these exceptional circumstances. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it is the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, as explained in more detail in the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, 2/2020, there are exceptional circumstances in the country within the meaning of Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act. In the view of the Constitutional Committee, the procedure under Article 7 of the Emergency Act for initiating the application of powers in an emergency case is intended to be used in situations where the postponement of the enforcement of powers would substantially undermine the ability to achieve the purpose of the law under exceptional circumstances. Such a situation could be a surprising and rapidly evolving crisis. The threshold for the application of Article 7 of the Emergency Act is therefore intended to be kept at a very high level. In the Committee's view, the explanatory memorandum to the regulation does not contain an appropriate and concrete description of the reasons for safeguarding the supply of medicines and supplies which require the regulation to be put into effect immediately. The committee pays serious attention to this deficiency and to the grounds for urgency. However, according to a report received by the committee, the objective of restricting the rapidly responsive and unpredictable market and ensuring security of supply is in favour of the conditions for the application of the procedure laid down in Article 7. The Constitutional Committee has no comment on the provisions of the Government Decree, as set out in the explanatory memorandum to the Regulation and provided for in Chapter 19 of the Emergency Act. However, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that Article 4 of the Act allows the powers of the Emergency Act to be exercised only in such ways as are necessary to achieve the purpose of the law and in proportion to the objective pursued by the exercise of the power to act. The draft decision of the Constitutional Committee is that the Government decree on the introduction of the powers provided for in Article 87 of the Emergency Act may remain in force. Both of these positions have been unanimous in committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u3	Mr President! We are living in a very exceptional time, an exceptional situation, and that is why we are also affected by these exceptional measures at legislative level. Crisis awareness is clear in Finnish society, health risks are high, and we know that this corona epidemic is hitting the long-term sick and the elderly the worst. This will also have significant, significant economic effects, and it is great that this is also being approached on a wider scale. The Sanna Marin government has announced that we are also giving companies a EUR 5 billion package of support. Of course, this is another group of people, entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs who are behind it. There are 180,000 single entrepreneurs, of whom very many, tens of thousands, have lost their livelihood. One particular feature, Mr President, is also the impact of the corona crisis on pension funds. They too have been the subject of attention. After all, the Financial Supervisory Authority has expressed its concern about the effects of this international crash on the stock market, and the Minister for Finance My corner has indicated that solvency rules can now be flexible, both of which are very sensible, and this is the direction we need to take. When it comes to these pension funds, you want to say to the background very quickly: We are not really aware that last year's pension assets increased by a record EUR 22 billion and are at a level of EUR 215 billion right now, 11.5% of real income growth, which is now a big fund issue. In fact, when more than half of this money has been transferred to the stock market and 77% is abroad, this stock market collapse will also have a major impact on our pension security and thus on our livelihood. It is also good to say that the Finnish statutory pension system has funded more than any pension system in the world. No pension system in the world has a tied share of national product as large as in Finland. So now you have to get your head cold, too, in this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u4	So the recent knock was not an invitation to the representative to stop, but an invitation to stop the commotion.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u5	Mr President! That is why it took me a while — I was used to waiting for Mr Kiljunen to speak for a long time, [Laughter] Indeed, Mr President, yesterday we had a debate and we have had a debate on this general situation of ours and the state of emergency that we have had here and what we are trying to achieve. The chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs gave a good presentation of the work they have done well in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. Yesterday I spoke about the fact that we in the opposition, the representatives of the opposition, and the citizens are now giving the government exceptional confidence and power and responsibility, and that is why I was a little concerned when I read these reports today, and in particular this regulation on the introduction of health care and the Emergency Act, Article 87, and the sale and restriction of medicines and goods and services. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs is saying the same thing that I myself myself was thinking yesterday that we are going to have a regulation or a bill, but the reasons for where they are here. This is the number of points in this regulation, [ Talker shows paper] Well, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn attention to this. If we look at this report 3/2020, here on page 3, the committee states, as the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has just pointed out, that the regulation does not show at all what, under the exceptional circumstances laid down in Article 3 of the Emergency Act, the necessity and proportionality of powers must be assessed. In other words, there is no clear indication of the definitions of exceptional circumstances in Article 3 of the Emergency Act in the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, it would be appropriate to define the exceptional circumstances at hand, for example in the preamble to the regulation. There is no line in this regulation at all. No one can know anything about this regulation but what is being done. There are many different points here, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that, according to its report, which has apparently now been obtained from experts and from the memo, it does not consider powers to be in themselves contrary to proportionality, but the criticism is directed specifically at these arguments and their communication — I am reading this. It is stated here that, in the committee's view, the explanatory memorandum to the regulation does not contain, in a proper and concrete way, the reasons for safeguarding the supply of medicines and supplies, which require the regulation to be put into effect immediately. We therefore have two readings here today: we have the so-called normal situation — if we can say the normal situation in exceptional circumstances — namely that the regulation will come into force with our approval here, and then there is this urgency procedure in which it has already entered into force, but we can then say here whether it has entered into force or not. The situation is that if this urgency clause is used, the obligation to state reasons will be even stronger, of course, because then the government will have power. Now the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated that it has paid serious attention to this deficiency and to the justification of urgency.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u6	Mr President! The introduction of the provisions of the Act of Preparedness in accordance with the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is justified. It is also very good that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a very careful job, despite the urgency. It is important that, even in exceptional circumstances, we act legally. But this situation as a whole reminds us of the vulnerability of a prosperous society with advanced technology and excellence in various fields. As many colleagues said yesterday, together we will overcome the crisis. But we also need to consider how to improve the sustainability of societies in the longer term. In many pharmaceutical production chains, China and India play a very central role. Does that make sense? Is it reasonable for the production chains of countless products to be spread over several continents? Is it reasonable that EU decision-making should be designed on the basis that decision-makers can fly every week? There are a lot of these questions. Knowledge that a pandemic can face the world has existed, but no country has been sufficiently prepared for it. We have not done enough to mitigate climate change either. Its harmful effects are slower, but there's no way we can handle it in a few months. Mr President! There are now countless people in financial trouble. They should be helped by society. Many entrepreneurs have lost their customers once and for all. In addition, there are countless people who suffer mild symptoms and stay as instructed, responsiblely home for two weeks. Almost all of them are not paid or paid per diem. When, as a society, we are prepared to take exceptional measures to protect health and life, we must also be prepared to make exceptional arrangements for the financial support of these people. Finally, Mr President, I am very pleased that Parliament has now been able to forget about small-scale politics and to work in good cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u7	Mr President! Of course, in order to combat the progression of the Korona virus and to ensure that health care is adequate, powers need to be increased, and in that sense the introduction of this preparedness law is very justified. As has been heard here, this is a common issue in which, of course, the government and the opposition would cooperate closely to the extent necessary, including in relation to the exchange of information. Access to information is now a prerequisite for all decision-makers, not only in this house, but also at municipal level, so that they can draw the right conclusions and not go according to their mud feelings. In particular, I would like to draw attention to such practical measures. We receive messages from all over the medical districts that some health centres, some municipalities or schools or others have not provided the protection tools needed to deal with people at risk. The average citizen is concerned when he cannot even get the handicrafts out of the store — let alone if he wants to obtain other protective equipment, there is no such thing. In the sense that, of course, everyone has such a right that, if you feel that you are in a high risk group, such protective instruments must be obtained, I hope that the government will also pay attention to this issue. I would also like to draw our attention to what Mr Tynkkynen said here late last night that those who are deprived of access to food at the moment are, in a way, the first group to be forgotten. In that sense, it would be good for these operators, who are working there, including in the third sector, to be provided with tools to help those people and to make this low-threshold operation continue for the next month or perhaps two months or longer. We do not know how long this will take, so also take into account these players who are in direct contact with these people who are seeking their help.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u8	Mr President! The Constitutional Act is an exception law which can only be used in exceptional circumstances, as the Constitutional Committee states. The Act of Preparedness has not been used in the past during the peace period, but similar regulations have been in place since World War II. Today we are not discussing the provisions of the Emergency Act which could, for example, be used to regulate rents. I think it is good to be prepared for this too, if that is what the situation requires. The impact of decisions already taken on the everyday lives of all of us will be significant. Schools are now closed, and children are transferred to remote education. This has revolutionised the lives of families with children, and this can only be done under special circumstances. Over 70-year-olds have been obliged to keep separate from contact with other people as far as they can, and some of our parents and grandparents are now taking this as grounded, even though it would be good to remember that it is a matter of protection and love for them. Mr President! Not only are we now doing everything we can to curb the spread of the corona epidemic through the introduction of the Emergency Act, but we also urgently need to find solutions to safeguard people's livelihood under exceptional circumstances. I am grateful that the previous generations have built us a welfare state capable of managing an exceptional situation, investing in health care and taking care of the weaker. Now that society is practically closing down, many people suffer great loss of earnings. Some entrepreneurs and employees even lose their jobs completely. Even now we hear about new lay-offs and new news every day, and it is anticipated that Kela and the unemployment funds will become very congested. Another cause for concern is the fact that many parents are now forced to stay at home with schoolchildren, and if there is no teleworking opportunity, there may also be a threat to their livelihood in these cases. The exceptional measures of this spring call for a new way of thinking for us. Under these circumstances, temporary basic income would be a sensible way to secure the livelihood of all Finns. Basic income would be paid to everyone of working age, whether unemployed, employed or self-employed. It would significantly reduce bureaucracy and bring clarity and peace of mind to people in these uncertain times. At the same time, it would increase the purchasing power of low incomes and help us overcome the recession, especially if the economic crisis persists. There is now an emergency situation in Finland that is testing everyone’s adaptability. However, concern over one’s own livelihood adds to the burden of many unduly. In these exceptional times, basic income would be a particularly good reform that would strengthen well-being and trust in society. Even in exceptional circumstances, we can overcome the crisis together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u9	Mr President! First of all, when we are dealing with a new issue and for the first time the regulations of the Emergency Act are being discussed in this Parliament, I would like to say that from the point of view of our own civilisation, it is worth going through carefully what the Emergency Act is, what are the implementing regulations and yet the implementing regulations that will only be available tomorrow, even though this is all the same. First of all, the Act on communicable diseases is very good. It came into force here three years ago. We already have comprehensive social and health legislation, but we are now in a situation where the Government, together with the President of the Republic, has estimated that through these ordinary laws in force we will not be able to adequately safeguard the social and health services of our citizens. That is why we are now in this situation and we are going over all these regulations. Now we have two regulations on the table, one on medicines, goods and services, and it has already been approved by the Government yesterday, and we have a situation here that we can or will not accept it — and that is what this means. I consider this to be very important, particularly in terms of ensuring the safety of medical supplies. Then there is this wider adoption regulation, which contains a number of points, Articles 86, 88, 93 to 95 and 109 of the Emergency Act, and I would like to say a few words about this protection of social and health services, which they are capable of doing. Perhaps it can be said that this adoption regulation is needed precisely because it will allow us to regulate more the activities of our services of social welfare and health care. All in all, that is what this is all about. I have taken the view of this report by the Constitutional Committee that here on page 4 of the Constitutional Committee’s report on these health issues all points: ‘The purpose of the exercise of the powers conferred on the regulation is to increase facilities for efficient management, to complement public health services with private service production, and to ensure the adequacy of staff and services in social and health care, rescue and emergency centre operations. “ I think that this is what is essentially related to this overall. I would still like to say: here is the representative. The sea mentioned these background notes. In my opinion, the background notes are fairly well written, but if we look only at these regulations again, the question arises that what is in the background notes. They are very specific as to why these regulations should be adopted, and why more powers should be given to both the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, to the avenues and, ultimately, to the Government. Let me take a few examples of what they say: firstly, we can oblige the services of social welfare and health services to change their activities or even to hand over the operating unit or part of it to the state authority. Or perhaps it seems a little smaller, but perhaps at this point the important thing is that, under the Emergency Act, measurements and qualifications can be examined on a more relaxed basis, i.e. more opportunities. It should also be noted that, under normal circumstances, private service providers cannot be obliged to accept certain categories of patients or to change their activities, but now, with these activation measures, this is what this deployment regulation says, this can be done. I think in that way that when you start looking at and reading these settings and background notes on the ground, it is not only enough, but it also needs guidance, good guidance from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on what this means, so that they can also be properly used if necessary. Mr President! Finally, I would like to say that the comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on both regulations are certainly necessary and I can very well agree with them — I am not a lawyer but I understand these comments — but from a human point of view I understand that, in such a situation as we have seen in recent days, everyone understands that neither government officials nor government ministers may be expected to be given full priority if I could say so. Mr President! Finally, I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr Ojala-Niemela, and perhaps to ask again — it may be that others are interested in this Chamber. When these commissioning regulations come into effect, they will be in force for less than a month, and my question is: If the situation continues as it is, what does it mean? Will we have new post-regulations here in Parliament, or how will we deal with them?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u10	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the rapid and good work they have done in assessing the criteria for the regulations that are now being introduced. Although the PeV may have been a bit reprehensible about the action, it has still been done. At the moment, when we do not know where we are going — we can only assess it on the basis of what has happened in Europe — we must now have all the tools needed to overcome this crisis in this country. I attach great importance to this Article 87 of the Emergency Act. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It may well be that when you look at the rest of Europe, we will need further articles of this law in order to move forward from this crisis. I'm sure there's a reason for everyone in this Chamber to be prepared that this won't be over by then, perhaps 13 April. I myself find it interesting to hear from the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs how it will be done if we need more of these with this system, what happens and when this decision will then be taken in this Chamber. I do not dare here to ignore the speech made by Mrs Mere, in which she specifically pointed out that given the keys of power to the government, a great deal of responsibility in the hands that we in the opposition must support, I would also like to express the hope that it will not only be enough for the opposition to support but also for the people to give broad support to the introduction of the preparedness law and the subsequent issues. This means, in my view, that there should not be opposition and government in this Chamber, but that there should be one parliament that works in all circumstances for the benefit of Finland and the Finns and then forgets the ideology of party politics. I trust that Prime Minister Marin will insist on this, that no one in the government is going to make a move in that direction, and I really hope that, because otherwise we will not get the support of the people, and then the whole Parliament will be in trouble.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u11	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its speedy and thorough work. With regard to the questions raised by the representatives, I can answer that, of course, if we believe that we need to bring new measures to Parliament, then we will adopt the implementing regulation and, if necessary, implementing regulations on the introduction of these new measures under the Emergency Act and they will be dealt with here. They go through Parliament, and then Parliament will assess and see whether these regulations can remain in force, whether they are in use or whether they should be repealed. I would also like to say to Parliament that the government, ministries and officials have been working under heavy time pressure here, otherwise under heavy pressure, and unfortunately there has been no room for a normal preparation process in this situation. There has been talk of hours rather than weeks or even days in preparation, unlike normal lawmaking. So we've been working under a lot of pressure. I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also the other committees which are examining these implementing regulations and perhaps also, on behalf of the government, to ask for the understanding that it has not been possible to use a normal long preparatory process at this point, of course, for understandable reasons.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u12	Mr President! Article 88 of the Emergency Act states, inter alia, that the right of the municipality to waive compliance with the urgent time limits laid down in the Health Care Act can now be applied throughout the territory of the State. This is one example of the impact this exceptional situation will have on the lives of our people. Of course, it is important that urgent treatment should be given priority, but it is not insignificant that urgent treatment should now be postponed. Therefore, in my understanding, it would be most important to ensure that this state of emergency lasts as little time as possible and that infections do not spread. An example of this has been the feedback from citizens that HUS has reported contractions in fertility treatments, for example. The longer this exceptional situation of unsolicited treatments lasts, the more severe human suffering this state of emergency causes. There have already been more infections in Europe than there are in China. The measures taken over the next few weeks, hours and days, will be the ones that will determine this, and I therefore hope that this picture of the situation will continue to be clarified by the municipalities. What should the municipalities do in the next two hours? What would be the most critical of all, for example, in Helsinki, in the metropolitan area, where the most acute infectious disease situation is most obvious? What are we supposed to do? Will we now be sending out a message about concrete measures in terms of hygiene, avoiding social contact, or are we trying to think about measures that go a little further? I am concerned, of course, that we will be able to get enough education arranged, that every child who otherwise does not get food will get it. At the same time, we must take into account the real risk that if we are not able, in a certain way, to take the necessary measures, then we understand that this situation can last longer, and that we will also see human suffering. That is why we now still need a clear picture of the situation in the municipalities. What must be done in the municipalities during the next day, which is the most critical? As has been well stated in this Chamber yesterday, we are facing a virus and not an enemy who needs to be kept in the dark, but, on the contrary, the better we can now share information about the concrete measures that everyone needs to take and every municipality needs to take, the less likely we will be to get away with this. Open democracy is our asset even in these exceptional circumstances. In addition, consideration must be given to the fact that the various financial support measures are being implemented in a fair way. New creative ways of coping with this crisis must also be considered. When people are at home and some are laid off, it must be possible to make people’s jobs flexible as far as possible. It is in the interests of all of us now, because no one could prepare for this situation, but it is in the interests of society if people are able to find some sources of livelihood even if they are not exactly in line with our current model. Certain housing companies have instructed them to move around outside the building company with gloves in their hand so that they do not touch the same doorknobs. Is such guidance coming everywhere? What are the working methods now? We still need more information and a little longer-term strategy on whether or not we are really trying to minimise the rate of infection and, in the course of time, hope that the testing capacity will increase so that we can move on to this model, which is apparently in place in some Asian countries, where we will then be able to test as many suspicions of viruses as possible and we will be able to trace further cases of infection after the peak of this epidemic, so that everyone else can possibly live as normal lives as possible. This could be the most cost-effective option and also the most humanely fair one. We would now need information on all of this, both in the following hours on the measures taken by the municipalities and in what is now Finland's strategy and situation picture in this difficult situation. It is very valuable to be able to take the most timely and up-to-date international information to support this strategy here in Finland. In this case of the virus and in relation to this international crisis, that best knowledge is certainly international, and that is something we must use. I am also hopeful now that Europe is taking action. We'll get through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u13	Mr President! When you look over there in the gallery of Parliament and you move around in that town, you can see that we are living under truly exceptional circumstances. People have retreated to their homes for telework and other chores. In this situation, it is particularly valuable that we, as a Parliament, are united in taking forward these issues in order to safeguard the security of our citizens. I think it is very valuable that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs now unanimously approved the introduction of these powers, as laid down in the Emergency Act, in other respects than the obligation of health care staff to work, and also that, according to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the introduction of powers for the provision of labour obligations is justified following technical changes. Health care staff currently work outside the public sector. They are in other fields, retired or, for example, as a housewife. When we have the position of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to clarify the provisions on duty, we will at the same time give the authorities the power to provide for more detailed practical arrangements. Here, too, we give the government great confidence, and I trust that the government will then take action at the right time and on the right scale. Mr President! The consensus in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on this issue and in this Chamber is indeed telling us that we are in a common position and that we share the view that we want to safeguard the well-being of our people, and I fully agree that this is a matter for all of us and that it requires us to be responsible for communication, but also for our other actions. People now come to us all with huge questions and contacts, and they need reliable information and also the message that we will get through this. We all also need patience and understanding when society focuses on securing its basic functions. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that the powers of the Emergency Act can only be exercised if the situation cannot be governed by the regular powers of the authorities. Our aim is to get to the normal situation as soon as possible, but we do not yet know the interest rate so well that we can say what the consequences are and whether we may also have to introduce wider powers. We are facing a serious situation and we have to put up with uncertainty. Mr President! It has already emerged from this debate that it is clear that, in an exceptional situation caused by the interest rate, we must also ensure that the health, safety and well-being of our citizens are also safeguarded in the face of acute social and health problems other than those caused by the corona, but urgent treatments and assessments of the need for services may now be delayed if and when the situation so requires, and that is what we are now giving the authority to do. Our common responsibility is to make every effort to minimise social and health damage. It is important to remember why we are doing all this: for the safety of our citizens. It's a human being. For my part, I would like to wish the whole Parliament and the Finnish people the strength and wisdom to deal with this exceptional situation, and we will manage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u14	Mr President! We are now living in extraordinary times. I doubt any of us would have thought that we would be voting in Parliament this week on the introduction of the Emergency Act. The Emergency Act aims to ensure the safety of the population and the functioning of society under the current exceptional circumstances. The law applies only to crisis situations affecting society as a whole. According to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of the regulation and the other report received by the committee, the exceptional circumstances in the country referred to in Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act. This is a very widespread epidemic, a pandemic that is comparable to a major accident with a particularly serious effect. The COVID-19 caused by the interest rate is such a very widespread dangerous epidemic that causes exceptional damage and a large number of victims. The condition is genuinely serious and the Emergency Act has not been introduced lightly. Mr President! We do not know how coronavirus behaves in the long term, how it changes. I recommend that all citizens stay at home as far as possible and limit contact only to close relationships. It is extremely important that we follow the recommendations of the authorities and the government. These policies are of no use if we as a nation do not follow them. With the action now being taken, we will defend our dear grandmothers and grandpas, those who have built this society, and we will take care of our loved ones with underlying diseases. These people can be found in all age groups and certainly also in this hall. In the end, we will protect all of us. It is now up to everyone to take care of their own and our common safety, so that health care is able to care for all those who need hospital care. The effects of interest on all of us will also be serious in the longer term. A lot of people are already making a living. Many people, especially small entrepreneurs and the cultural sector, are in serious distress. The government must therefore respond to this need, and that is certainly what it will do. However, from home we can help each other already, and many have already done so. The only way we're gonna get out of this crisis is if we work together. Mr President! According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, Finland is close to the threshold of a dangerous domestic epidemic and the epidemic is likely to spread at different rates across the country. According to the drafts of the Act on Preparedness, it is a widespread infectious disease even when it has not yet entered Finland or spread locally into an epidemic. People are so worried. Many citizens have been in contact with us as parliamentarians and have been serious about their own concerns. In addition to health, it is the livelihood that worries people. One of the most important tasks of the government is not only to protect the population from the virus itself, but also to ensure that we are able to rise to our feet after the threat has passed. The best conditions for this are if we all act in accordance with the guidelines and recommendations now given. The situation is exceptional in every way, and it must be difficult for many to get used to exceptional circumstances. Now, if ever it's time to get together with the closest ones and just be left alone. Mr President! In the midst of crises, it is important to remember that Finland is still the rule of law and that the government seeks to restrict fundamental human rights only to the extent that it is vital. We are still committed to human rights. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u15	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Health Care Act is not enough to protect the population, and that is why we need a preparedness law. I would also like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for its swift and swift action. So we have two regulations on the table here. The second relates to medicines, goods and services and has already been approved, as the chairman of the committee, Mr Vehviläinen, mentioned in his speech. It is therefore up to us to continue along the same lines. The second regulation relates to the introduction of the regulation, that is to say, the introduction of the regulation. Mr President! In addition to medicines, many other things will be restricted and changed by this Emergency Act. It is very important that we have enough medicines for intensive care, antibiotics and painkillers, and that is why this Article 87 is very important. There are also changes to treatment without haste, which is linked to changing treatment guarantee periods. After all, the situation is that urgent care should be evaluated, and then, within three months, treatment should be provided. But now these unhurried times will be flexible. This means that we must all understand what is at stake. True, we should also remember and consider the quiet ones who may not seek treatment there, even if there is reason and urgent need. So we are talking here about the elderly, the elderly, the family carers who may be wondering whether or not to leave. Mr President! Today we heard from the STT that there are currently more deaths in Europe from this corona virus than in Asia. 3421 in Europe and 3384 in Asia. We are talking about really large numbers, and we must be humble and quiet in front of them. From China, the Peking professor reported — just now reading from the Helsingin Sanomat — and warned against making the same mistakes that were made in China. The small number of medical personnel infected, tested and cared for caused the deaths of 46 doctors and nurses in China, among others. These are the figures we were told. That is exactly what the WHO has said, among other things: we need to increase testing. Care personnel as well as all Finns should be tested as much as possible so that we also get statistics for the future on the way this disease, the disease, tested Finns. Mr President! Insufficient care staff: We already have a situation where there are no nurses in care of the elderly. My phone's already ringing. Will you come on the night shift? It's about how we're going through a really tough time. I do not know how we will find a solution to this so that there will be morning nurses, night nurses, day - care workers, night care workers. Where are we gonna find them if the nurses get sick? For this reason, too, it is extremely important that we test so that we can separate whether the coronavirus or any other viral infection is taking place. Mr President! You still have to remind all of us both at home and here, friends, friends, children, grandmothers, grandfathers, cousins, whoever comes to mind that we follow these instructions that we receive. You don't make them bullying or bullying. Let's stay home, avoid those contacts. Let's just say a little harder that we're not going anywhere, we're staying home now. Inventing activities and also monitoring that those students, schoolchildren, distance students in the homes do what they are also required to do, to study at a distance. And let's wash our hands and do everything we can to stop this epidemic. It will take time and it will be difficult, but we will succeed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u16	Mr President! There are exceptional circumstances in Finland, conditions that have not been experienced since the World Wars, which are also different from the war in many ways, and now we are working together to develop the means by which we can overcome this crisis as well as we can. At the heart of this is, of course, the Constitutional Committee, whose work I myself have had the honour of participating in. In addition, the leadership of all parties was called together to weigh 12. March. In my view, this kind of action is very valuable when we work together to find solutions across party boundaries and give the citizens the message that we, as a whole in Parliament, are looking for ways to move forward from this situation and that when we have to take advantage of an exemption law such as the Emergency Act, it is really done as a result of a solid collective democratic judgment. This exemption law, the Emergency Act, does indeed open the door to powers that bypass in many ways ordinary practices, many locks that we have in the system to ensure the normal running of people's daily lives and fundamental rights. That is why, in these situations, there is every reason to be particularly careful, and this is something that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also drawn strong attention to. At the same time, however, the situation is that we are all applying this law for the first time, and that is why it is precisely through a common debate that these solutions must be sought, and precisely so that, although we have made progress in this way, if and when there may be future adoption regulations, then they can once again learn lessons and always move towards better practices. At the moment, it is essential not only to uphold democracy and fundamental rights, but also to pay attention to sharing the right information. The Emergency Act will only be introduced in part and a large part of the precautionary measures will be taken under other legislation. There is much that can be done without the Emergency Act, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has still underlined that, according to Article 4 of the Emergency Act, those powers can only be exercised in situations where the situation is not manageable by the regular powers of the authorities, and this really goes to that level of everyday life. If the situation can be resolved under normal law, then it is necessary to do so. Yes, the Act of Preparedness is only for those extreme exceptions. As has been said, there is flexibility and common procedures for best solutions. For example, ways are being sought to strengthen livelihoods. Kela was just being heard in the Committee on Finance, and it was a pleasure to hear that they are prepared to decide on benefits based on incomplete information, they are prepared to prioritize their own activities and deal with benefits in an aggregate way. In other words, when people cannot understandably meet all the conditions for social security, they cannot provide all the information they need under normal circumstances, Kela is prepared to be flexible, and this is the way it should be, because under these circumstances we must not leave anyone out in the open. At the same time, we here in Parliament must pay attention to the fact that many parts of our benefits are not designed for such a situation. A large proportion of Finns should now turn to, for example, the infectious disease allowance, but it has not been thought of as a large-scale pandemic but for a few hundred people. In recent years, its use levels have been very low. We need to consider how this benefit could be introduced more widely. In sickness allowance, consideration should be given to whether it is necessary to shorten the retention period from 10 days, as many people now fall to the trees for no reason of their own, and otherwise we can look for lighter solutions, the much easier means of preparedness law, to make people’s daily lives smoother. At the same time, we really must remember that these restrictions themselves also create threats. We know that during holidays, for example, when Finns spend a lot of time at home, intimate violence increases. It is therefore necessary to ensure all the support and resources required for helpable phones, not only those close to them but also those Finns to whom the closest are unfortunately the worst security threat. In these times, caring, seeking common solutions is really needed. I believe that this is what we can and will do for the best, as long as we stick to democracy, human rights and cooperation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u17	Mr President! Circumstances require extraordinary action. This is the first time we have ever introduced the provisions of the Emergency Act. The implementing regulations are now being discussed by the committees, and that is what we will be discussing here in the Chamber tomorrow. However, it should be noted that many of the measures taken, such as closing the doors to primary schools and other educational institutions, have been taken on the basis of Article 58 of the Act on communicable diseases by decisions taken by regional government agencies. These decisions of the Regional State Administrative Agencies also state the exceptions that have now been identified in the implementing regulations. Exceptions include pupils of parents who work in critical fields eligible for contact education in grades 1 to 3, and pupils who have received special support. These decisions by the Regional State Administrative Agencies are already in force, but the interpretations of the application will not be available until tomorrow with regard to the application of the Emergency Act. However, there are many questions of interpretation which will not be considered by Parliament, but where decisions are now being taken in the municipalities. Such a question is, for example, the organisation of school meals for pupils who are not in local education. For too many children, school meals are the only warm meal of the day. On the other hand, it should also be possible to organise meals in a way that minimises the risk of infection. Another issue is, for example, early childhood education for children who are now recommended to have parents at home. In other words, children who can keep their parents at home are recommended to be treated there or treated by another guardian. There are no provisions on how to proceed with payments. Today, the Minister for Education, Mr Andersson, made a recommendation which I think is right and desirable, that is, if the child does not participate in early childhood education, the early childhood education fees should not be charged either. Thank you to the Minister for this line and recommendation. Recommendations and municipal policies should not conflict with each other. That is why this refund would be right and sensible. The compensation also encourages children to be kept out of day-care centres, and this will make it easier to take care of the children of the parents who, in this situation too, work for all of us and also for health care. However, at the moment, these policies and decisions are already being taken by the municipalities at a really fast pace without previous case law, and it is very good if the Ministry of Education and the National Board of Education are to give precise instructions on how to apply them, because these matters will not be dealt with by Parliament as regards the application of the Act on communicable diseases and, on the other hand, we are creating a new case law here all the time. Mr President! We democratically elected decision-makers are now the few people we meet here, not only in this Parliament but also in municipal councils and committees, to make decisions. In particular, municipal councillors have many over 70-year-olds and at-risk groups who are not currently covered by the Government recommendations. The electronic meeting procedure of municipal councils is quite severely restricted by the municipal law, and the electronic meeting procedure is possible if it can be found in the municipal administrative rules. However, meetings of councils are not easy to organise in such a way that risk groups can be protected or the risk of infection can also be avoided for others. I would therefore continue to ask the Government to consider the introduction of Article 108 of the Emergency Act, which would allow the assembly of councils to take place in a more restricted composition and also in a timely manner, and also to contribute to the decision of the municipal governments on a faster delegation of decisions. This may not be the case at the moment, but if this situation persists, there are also situations where decisions need to be taken. Mr President! This situation is challenging and new to all of us, and I believe that we will also be able to overcome this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u18	Mr President! Indeed, there are extraordinary times. Nature has put Finland, Europe and the world we know on its knees. The emergency provisions such as those now introduced by the Act on Preparedness have not been applied in Finland since the war. Having cooperated with the President of the Republic, the Government has recognised the existence of exceptional circumstances in the country, and now the Constitutional Committee has confirmed this statement by the Government on the existence of exceptional circumstances on the basis of Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act. As the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has pointed out in its report, the fulfilment of Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act requires that this is a very widespread epidemic and that it is similar to a major disaster with a particularly serious impact, which refers, among other things, to exceptional damage and to the high number of victims. The committee has referred in particular to the WHO Declaration on Corona Pandemics and its serious implications for Finland. The committee has also referred to the Government's assessment that the need for medical care caused by the corona virus may prove to be extremely high and that the medical staff are severely burdened. This is why it is important to slow down the progression of the disease in Finland so that at the same time a smaller proportion of Finns get sick in a hospital care-requisite way compared to a situation in which measures under the Emergency Act are not taken, which is what the committee says. Indeed, according to the drafts of the Emergency Act, the widespread infectious disease referred to in paragraph 5 is still at stake when it has not yet come to Finland. Well, for the sake of the rule of law, it is important that the exceptional circumstances required for the introduction of the exemption law have been carefully assessed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. This assessment is linked to the criteria of the Emergency Act in the committee's report on the conditions for the application of Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act. It is basically a question of restricting and even derogating from the fundamental rights of people by activation of the Emergency Act and its provisions. This is an important measure affecting the rights of people, Finns, which requires the need to be at hand. As has been pointed out in the debate, transparency is crucial when the Government has now been given exceptional powers. Trust in the system and the authorities is increased by people knowing what situation picture and strategy the government's actions are based on now and in the future. One question for which many Finns certainly need clarification is the change in the government’s situation at the end of the week,which led to the fulfilment of the exceptional circumstances on Monday. So, as the Government has said and as the Constitutional Committee has confirmed, there are exceptions, but why was they said on Monday? Could you, Prime Minister, clarify this for the Finns? The exceptional circumstances of everyday life have existed in at least us in Uusimaa since the end of last week. In practice, Uusimaa is already an epidemic region, and I would like to point out that several municipalities have already started to use the powers of the Act on communicable diseases last week to restrict them. The premises have already been closed last week and schools have been transferred to remote education even before these measures under the Emergency Act have been implemented. The municipalities have done an commendablely forward-looking thing, and that is a good thing. And not only the municipalities, but also Finns have been preparing for a long time. My main concern relates to the situation of older people over 70 years of age. They're a special risk group, aren't they? How willing are our seniors to comply with the government’s obligation to keep separate from contact with other people as far as possible? There are indications in public and in our respective circles that the government's guidance may not have been fully internalised. How do we manage to explain to the elderly that we have to stay at home, even though it really does not feel good? I hope that the government will carefully monitor the situation and, if necessary, rely on the provisions of the Emergency Act on restrictions on movement, so that risk groups can be kept safe. It is for their benefit, and it is in everyone's interest, so that the health system is not overloaded, as has already been seen in practice in Italy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u19	Mr President! I would like to thank the honourable Member for his question, and I would like to clarify this process for my part. Last week I invited all the parliamentary parties and the leadership of the parliamentary groups to the House of Regulation, and we were already preparing for the possibility that it will be possible for Finland to adopt tougher measures to contain the epidemic and protect the groups at risk. At that time, we had a very thorough, multi-hour discussion with the groups, and I also received a unanimous opinion from the groups that, if necessary, the preparedness law could be introduced in Finland. On Friday, in TP-UTVA, we have also gone through this situation with the President of the Republic, and cooperation in this regard has been fulfilled. We have been working all weekend, not spending the weekend, but working round the clock and working with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and THL on this situation throughout the weekend. One of the key reasons why Finland now believes that we need to adopt tougher measures, and they have already been introduced, is that when this disease is international and it has come to Finland from elsewhere, and we now see that this epidemic has spread very widely in Europe and affects many countries, so when we have had tourists in European countries on a very large scale and elsewhere, it is estimated that the epidemic will also reach Finland faster and that the spike may be steeper than it would otherwise be. In other words, once this epidemic region has expanded so rapidly and we too have had so many Finnish tourists around the world, this has been one of the key reasons why the situation picture has been updated and, to that extent, it has changed that we have to adopt these tougher measures. I would also like to stress that Finland has always acted in a timely manner. We haven't been on the trail. When we look at the disease situation in Finland at the moment, we have actually introduced a much wider range of means than many other countries have had in such a situation. In other words, we have always been in the front row rather than in the back, and we have always acted in a timely manner in accordance with its current knowledge and disease situation, but since last week we have been preparing for this process and working hard to ensure that it is now in this state.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u20	Mr President! The Emergency Act creates exceptional conditions in Finland. In order to slow down the spread of the Korona virus, the various institutions of Parliament, as in this case the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, have demonstrated their capacity to act. The necessary legislative measures could have been as rapid as they could have been without jeopardising the democratic decision-making principle. The emergency situation will burden our health care system and its workers. It is good that the obligation to work for health care staff will be examined very carefully, since under Articles 93 and 94 of the Emergency Act, the employer is entitled, without prejudice to the Working Time Act and the collective agreement, to work overtime for the employee without his consent, to derogate from the provisions on daily rest and weekly rest, and to derogate from the provisions on the maximum working time of Article 18 of the Working Time Act. This procedure is intended to safeguard the adequacy of medical staff, but it limits fundamental rights. If we end up with a duty to work, it will certainly be justified to ensure the health and safety of our citizens, so that our health system can also function as planned under exceptional circumstances. In any case, special attention should be paid to the health and well-being of medical staff in the coming months. There must be a genuine opportunity for recreation and strength-gathering, so that, in times of crisis and even after that, we have functional health care staff. For example, there must be an effective arrangement for those concerned with childcare. With these proposals, I wish the health care sector and other critical sectors the strength of their mission.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u21	Mr President! For the first time in the peace period, Finland has indeed introduced a preparedness law, and I am pleased that all parties in Finland are here to agree on the importance of the matter. After all, we have a well-ordered preparedness law that allows the articles to be introduced as they are needed, so that we can guarantee that we will avoid excessive or excessive measures at an early stage. Indeed, here in Finland, since today, schools are closed, as they have already been in most European countries, but the regulations before us today also bring flexibility to the social side. Many of us here are municipal decision-makers and see that it is clearer to the municipalities that there are the same guidelines and rules in the whole country, for example as regards compliance with the time limits for urgent care or the assessment of the need for social care services, but many municipalities may now also be concerned that, when these are brought about, what happens to state aids and whether the rest of the country will meet these costs. I would now like to ask you, Prime Minister: have you considered this issue of state aid? Many people here have expressed particular concern about those over 70 years of age who do not want to comply with these rules on staying at home and other restrictions in their lives, and I am also concerned about them. I think it is important for all of us, including Members of Parliament, to give our own example to instruct our own people that the rules should be followed, because that is how we are going to lower the wave and avoid the greatest damage to society. But, Mr President, I would like to raise a few more points, one of which is Finns abroad, many of whom are in this particular high-risk group, i.e. over 70 years of age. I am particularly concerned about people in the favourite destinations of Finns in Spain, the Canary Islands, Florida and Thailand who feel that they are stuck in the world and cannot get out of it now that all the flights to the airlines are booked and very difficult to get out. I would ask you again, Prime Minister: have you also thought about possible evacuation of Finns at some point, if it seems that it is really difficult to get out? Finally, Mr President, I would also like to point out that this is indeed not just a matter for the government or the opposition, but for all of us, and I would also like us as representatives of the opposition to be heard in this situation, particularly as regards economic issues. Entrepreneurs in particular are very active in contact with us and are hoping for rapid action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u22	Mr President! The comments of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the reasons for this introduction of the Emergency Act are appropriate. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has worked very carefully in a hurry. This is the first time that we are working on such time-critical legislation, and we must be vigilant. However, precision must not lead to a delay in really critical decision-making, and the Prime Minister's point of view on this tight timetable must indeed be understood here. We still have to thank the Prime Minister separately for the very clear communication across the board. While this acute situation is being dealt with, Mr Hassi and Mr Kontula, for example, here yesterday, have made a great point that we also need to learn from this and build a more resilient and sustainable society. But with regard to this acute situation, I personally am not sure that the duration or scope of the current use of the Emergency Act will be sufficient. But time will show, and these will then be dealt with here within the framework of this legislation. We should also send our thanks to those sitting in this Chamber nine years ago. At the moment, it would seem that this law is well designed and works in such a situation. Indeed, the situation is exceptional even now, but the worst in terms of the disease is probably just ahead. It is still impossible to assess all the consequences of the economic stock, but it is clear that there is a need for an open mind when considering different solutions and repair kits. Mr Salmonikoski's idea of a temporary basic income is actually an excellent example of this, and I would not shoot it down even if I had been critical of the basic income in the past under normal conditions. Now we really need a bold and open mind. I would like to ask the Prime Minister about this situation: As I understand it, we now have a situation where our epidemic is progressing and, of course, we cannot test all of us anymore. The effects of the decisions we are taking at the moment, for example on limiting and limiting social contacts, we see with delay, and we cannot react with that delay because it is too late. So I would have asked about this and made sure that we have a good picture of how well these restrictions now imposed have begun to bite, bite and influence people's behaviour so that, if necessary, we can tighten up, target communication and take other measures and similar measures, because, I stress, the consequences of these measures cannot be expected in the number of diseases there. I would have liked to have heard a view on this from the government. After all, this monitoring and readiness to act quickly, according to what it looks like, how well these messages, instructions and orders sent here really get through?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u23	I give the answer to Mr Paatero.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u24	Mr President! This was just a matter for the representative of the municipalities' central government shares, and yes, we are equipped to ensure that there is a loss of income for the municipalities, as tax revenue for both companies and citizens will be reduced, and, on the other hand, an increase in expenditure when these obligations come on the part of the municipalities. It has already been stated that, in which amending budget, we are going to increase the share of the state and, on the other hand, the balance between the share of corporation tax and that between the municipalities and the state will be examined whether it is possible to change for a fixed period. The second thing I was going to say at the same time: It is important that when we here, Members of Parliament, are in the place of decision-making, the decision-making capacity of the municipalities is maintained, and that is why there is also the possibility of electronic meeting arrangements in the municipalities. I hope they can be used. The majority of the employees and the tasks that this will now be specifically directed at from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health are the responsibility of the municipalities, and therefore the decision-making capacity at both the board, the municipal board and the council level is hoped for. And hopefully also their own preparedness groups and plans, which the municipalities have, will operate regionally and keep its own picture of the situation in their own region, so that the ability to act in this respect will remain strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u25	Mr President! As the Minister responsible for Finnair, the Minister for Ownership Guidance, I am responding for my part to Mr. Kauma's question and to the concerns of Finns currently residing abroad. We have instructions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that invite all Finns travelling abroad to return to their homes, but we also allow everyone else to return to Finland, of course, in all situations. However, I would like to point out that it is possible for Finns who have a permanent place of residence abroad, such as on the Sun Coast or, for example, in Florida, where they stay much more permanently than Finnish citizens, to remain in these destinations. Not all of them have to go back to Finland. If they return, they will be subject to this obligation to quarantine for two weeks. This is an important message. Of course, Finnair is in a very difficult financial crisis in this situation. However, under all circumstances, the government will ensure that our national airline is able to operate. We actively help Finnair overcome this difficult situation. Finnair has reduced a significant part of its route connections. However, as a rule, it maintains approximately 10% of its capacity at the moment and is ready to take care of all the return flights necessary as this situation progresses. We are always coordinating this situation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Minister Harakka with me is evaluating this situation all the time. Finns who reside more permanently abroad can stay there if they wish. Those who come will be arranged for home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u26	Mr President! As we have heard from several representatives in this Chamber today, we live in very exceptional times in Finland. Normal means alone will not be able to stop this particularly serious epidemic of infectious diseases effectively enough, but exceptional measures are needed, which in this situation means the introduction of a preparedness law. The exceptional nature of the situation is indicated by the fact that the Finnish Government has never introduced the Emergency Act before during the peace period. The measures now to be taken are robust, but absolutely necessary. This is an important issue for the overall interests of our nation, which does not look at political or ideological divisions. In the current situation, it cannot be overemphasised how important it is for citizens to monitor and act on developments and official guidelines. This is necessary in order to slow down the progression of the corona virus and to ensure, in particular, the survival of the most vulnerable people, the elderly at risk and the underlying diseases. It is also important to safeguard the operating conditions of domestic companies, and there are, of course, many ways to do this. Mr President! Indeed, today, in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we have completed two unanimous reports. I personally welcome these reports and their outcome, and I am pleased to hear that they have received a very warm reception here in the Chamber today. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the light of the reasons for the adoption of the regulation and of the other reports received by the committee, Finland is subject to the exceptional conditions referred to in Article 3(5) of the Emergency Act, in which case there are grounds for the emergency legislation and the introduction of the proposed operating powers, with certain observations and amendments, which have already been well-established in the past. The World Health Organization (WHO) declared the epidemic COVID-19 caused by the corona virus a pandemic on 11 March 1920. According to the National Institute for Health and Welfare, Finland is close to the threshold of a dangerous domestic epidemic and the epidemic is likely to spread at different rates across the country. According to the drafts of the Act on Preparedness, it is also a widespread infectious disease when it has not yet come to Finland. Anticipation based on researched knowledge and a healthy sense of self-preservation is not bad in the face of a serious crisis. The Emergency Act provides for abnormal operating powers, such as deviation from fundamental rights, the management of central government finances in exceptional circumstances and the organisation of administration. It is relevant to the Constitution that the Emergency Act can only be applied in the event of very serious crises. The scope of the Emergency Act covers only particularly serious crises affecting the entire nation or at least a large part of it and affecting the functioning of society as a whole. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs points out in its report that the exceptional circumstances justifying the exercise of exceptional powers can only be at hand if the powers exercised by the authorities under normal conditions are not sufficient to manage the situation. Those who propose the introduction of the powers provided for in the Emergency Act shall have the obligation to provide sufficient justification for the necessity and proportionality of the introduction of those powers. Personally, I would like to stress that the regulations adopted by the Government must continue to be dealt with in a smooth and swift manner, but with the same particular precision because the Emergency Act restricts the fundamental rights, freedoms and the functioning of society of citizens. Mr President! In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the criteria for the introduction of the powers provided for in the Emergency Act are sufficient, and with these words I would like to say that we are also standing behind the introduction of the Emergency Act here in the opposition.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u27	Mr President! The Act of Preparedness is important, significant and, in fact, quite urgent. The importance of information in crises is emphasised. It is important to provide timely information to citizens, municipalities, sick people, health centres, pharmacies, everywhere. It's very important. Access to medicines must also be guaranteed — no matter what the situation, access to medicines must be guaranteed. We must also consider the fact that there are quite a lot of medicines coming from abroad too, so that this import issue must also be considered if the crisis persists. There can't be a situation where the drugs run out. It is very important to take care of it, and now it is supposed to be taken care of. It is certain that this will not necessarily be over in a month or two or three. No one can know for sure how long this is going to take. That is why we must also be prepared for this future. It is also important to take care of the follow-up, so that at the point when this crisis is beginning to come to an end, it is also important to take care of the follow-up care and remember to put all that money into it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u28	Mr President! Our job together is to protect people's lives and lives. We have recently been awakened to the fact that our society is very fragile, the world is fragile. The Constitutional Committee unanimously proposes that the Government's decree remain in force, with the exception of Article 5. ) on the obligation of health care staff to work. We will return to this when there is sufficient time to prepare the matter. Thank you very much to our chairman, Mrs Ojala-Niemelä, for the clear leadership of the committee in this challenging situation. Thank you all the fellow committeemen for their united work in that country for the benefit of our country. The Act of Preparedness is about to be introduced for the first time since the war. The introduction of the law is a matter of significantly restricting and even ignoring fundamental human rights. The National Institute for Health and Welfare considers the overall situation to be dangerous, especially for the elderly and the sick. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the preparedness law cannot be introduced on a light basis. That is our last resort when the powers of the authorities are not enough. We're in a serious situation here. The interest rate is a surprising and rapidly developing disease, which has been declared a pandemic by the WHO, and it considers it dangerous. It equates it with a particularly serious major accident and its exceptional number of victims. Security of supply is at risk, for example in the area of pharmaceutical supply. We are already close to the threshold of an indigenous, dangerous epidemic. The President and the Government have recognised Finland's state of emergency. Finland has been operating in a systematic and timely manner all the time. Thank you very much for the determination of the government during this crisis. This morning, the Constitutional Committee has considered the exceptional situation to be justified. We have already been subject to a number of restrictions by the authorities on the basis of the Act on communicable diseases. These restrictions require endurance and patience for all of us. However, the Act on communicable diseases does not allow all necessary measures to protect people and control the situation. The health system must be kept operational and workers must be protected in good health so that we can save lives. The Act of Preparedness is laid down as an exception. In the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, we stated that the threshold for the application of the Emergency Act should be kept particularly high. The Government must make a decree on each point of the law separately. These regulations are not constantly in force, but for a short time at a time, just as they are now. It is up to Parliament to assess the proportionality of each regulation with regard to its objectives according to the current situation picture. When we are in exceptional circumstances, for example, we limit the responsibilities of education providers so that we can safeguard what is even more valuable: protecting a unique life. For example, the Basic Education Act does not provide sufficient capacity and powers for distance education and the law of liberal education does not have any limitations on its implementation. The limitations brought about by the Act of Preparedness and the Regulation are needed in order to cope with abnormal conditions of practical life. Mr President! The world won't be the same after this. The interest will not be the last pandemic or epidemic in this small, networked world. As there is always a wide range of information and also misleading information in unexpected situations, the reasons for exceptional circumstances must be presented and communicated very clearly, with official responsibility. Citizens have a lot of questions. We need clear-language communication and guidance from the authorities so that the seriousness of the matter is understood throughout the country. We need to give people a sense of security. Every human being is priceless. Other unpredictable black swans fly in the air. The global economy and the Finnish economy dive downwards. We now need robust measures to support entrepreneurship, business, food production and families, for example. We need a wide range of economic stimulus measures. We must now tackle the challenges we face and take action to protect children, young people, the disabled, the sick and the elderly. Afterwards, we must assess the effectiveness of our actions and decisions and learn from this crisis. We must strengthen the sustainability of society in the long term. We must develop the health system in the future so that, because of every pandemic or epidemic, our country does not have to be placed in an exceptional state, which must be seen as the last measure to protect our citizens. Now, however, we are in a situation like this — a situation that we can deal with together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u29	Mr President! The last few weeks have been truly exceptional. Because of the corona virus situation in our country, there is a state of emergency that revolutionises our society in many ways. This has now also been confirmed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. We are deciding for the first time ever to introduce the powers provided for in the Emergency Act, and it shows how seriously we are in a situation of extreme seriousness with a veritable virus, and so is the whole world. Based on the views of experts, the Government set out a comprehensive list of robust measures to protect citizens and safeguard the functioning of society and the economy. As has been said here, it is important for the government to have at its disposal an up-to-date and broad-based picture of the spread of the disease. It is also important that Parliament as a whole is kept informed of developments in the situation and of the additional measures needed. We will overcome this crisis when we row as a parliament in the same direction. The careful work of the Constitutional Committee and the unanimous reports are a good basis for this work. Mr President! While we are taking the necessary measures to control the spread of the corona virus, we must ensure that the impact of these measures on people's daily lives and livelihoods is not excessive. This is now going to be a lot of worrying questions that we need to be able to provide answers to. The municipalities and their staff must be supported to enable them to carry out their duties. The remote organization of teaching is a tremendous effort for teachers and other teaching staff. In families, combining telework and children’s schooling is a challenging equation. It must also be remembered that home is not a safe place for everyone. The well-being of children and young people must also be safeguarded in an exceptional situation. There is now a need for clear guidelines for municipalities in order to reduce uncertainty and ensure equality between citizens. It is also important that good practices can be shared when local authorities are wrestling with the same problems. We do not know how long this exceptional situation will last. Mr President! I also worry about people's livelihoods. The interest rate is particularly bad for small entrepreneurs. In the cultural sector, for example, the abnormality caused by the corona virus is difficult. Many small businesses are now at stake. It is therefore important that we find forms of support for different situations. Social security must be subject to the necessary changes without delay in order to provide security in this exceptional situation as well, and this crisis situation will also provide an opportunity to assess the need for reform of basic security from a new perspective. We need a number of measures to alleviate people's financial concerns and distress. Today, Minister of Education Li Andersson has stated at the information conference that while the municipalities continue to decide on the fees under the early childhood education law, it is highly desirable that they should not be charged at this stage. This would really bring important relief to the financial situation of families. For example, it has been proposed to facilitate the situation of cultural freelancers with grants of between one and three months. These are all the means that we must now consider and introduce. Mr President! The introduction of the powers of the Emergency Act is an exceptional measure aimed at slowing down the spread of the disease and protecting the elderly and other vulnerable people from a disease that could be fatal to them. It is important that the procedures are carried out with care, despite the urgency. At the same time as we are dealing with the acute crisis, we must also prepare ourselves for the way in which these restrictions will, in due course, be abandoned and how we will ensure that society functions as well as possible in an emergency situation. As many people in this Chamber have said, crisis awareness is needed so that people now really understand that everyone must take responsibility for complying with restrictive measures and avoiding social contacts. At the same time, we must be able to create faith and hope that this emergency and crisis will be overcome and encourage people to continue living as normal a life as possible within the limits within which it is currently possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u30	Mr President! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for examining the regulations for the adoption of the Emergency Act and for the valuable comments attached to it. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers that the conditions laid down in the Emergency Act for the introduction of the proposed powers are met. On the basis of the overall situation, it is now quite clear that the fight against an international pandemic, the care of the sick and the protection of the population are not controlled by ordinary legislation. Exceptional measures are therefore needed. President! Ultimately, it is a question of restricting ourselves because we want to safeguard something even more important. We limit, for example, the obligation to organise treatment without haste, restrict the right to contact education, limit border traffic, travel and public events, deviate from the regulations on annual leave and working hours. We are attacking many sacred civil rights. We target restrictions and deviations because we safeguard human health. That's the starting point. It is clear that threats also float outside health concerns. People's livelihoods, employment and entrepreneurship threaten to fall into an uncontrolled spiral. It is therefore quite clear that coronasunami is not only a health-related virus but also an economic virus, a virus that paralyses society. President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has now drawn conclusions from the introduction of powers. It is an important step towards speeding up and strengthening social measures that are absolutely necessary. It is not enough to bless or update the situation, but to fight. This fight is best achieved by following the instructions of the authorities and acting responsibly. That responsibility is a matter of concern for both the fellow man and the person. Responsibility is also the fact that Parliament has a common front for extraordinary and necessary measures. President! We have a list of so-called critical areas. The list is important and comprehensive. However, I personally see that the critical areas are all people and all actors. Finland is full of heroic acts. Those acts are now needed everywhere, whether they be in relation to children, elderly people or entrepreneurs, that is, in behalf of the people. Although we all have concerns, I trust the Finns. We are a people united by difficult times, and we go upright even through this time. We've been tested before, and we've always been on our feet. President! I appreciate the presence of two competent ministers here. The situation of municipalities, along with many other issues, is worrying. I would like to ask Mr Paatero: what is the capacity of the municipalities to deal with this very exceptional situation, both in terms of health care and financial conditions?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u31	Mr President! The old hymn dear to us Finns said this: “In the case of God, there is greater security. “ I therefore urge all those to whom this is appropriate to pray for the protection and protection of our country. President! Good and responsible speeches have been heard here yesterday and today. It shows that concern is shared and understanding of the immediate need for serious and demanding measures is also shared. This debate has been very diverse yesterday and today, and this issue, which I am mentioning now, has not been ignored by the representatives, but I am raising the debate and the attention of ministers to the situation of the underprivileged, particularly those whose lives and eating depend on bread lines, and the individuals who are the subject of enforcement. There are also many low - income families whose only warm food is a meal at school. We must, therefore, make every effort to secure the conditions for those who provide food aid. For many, the food bag from the bread line is the only food they can get. I am pleased to note that these food aid associations and the church are quite quick and agile. They have already personally created different models through which they, as it were, take account of this situation and respond to these sanitation claims with self-help and prepare these food bags in advance and then simply hand them over to those who need them. There's not much close contact, there's hardly any queues. I think it's amazing. Then these thousands of people in enforcement who are changing their work situation, those who are laid off or laid off: In their case, enforcement measures must be suspended for a limited period in order to enable them to organise their affairs. The survival of a lot of people in the enforcement business depends on the payment plan they've made. For many of the entire life management of the enforcement, compliance with the payment plan is a condition for them to get their affairs in order. The same applies to those who are in a private debt arrangement. For these people too, the payment schedules should now be flexible in the event of lay-off or unemployment. As we all know, if you do not stay in the debt scheme, the programme will expire and everything that has been paid until then will also lapse. I very much hope and believe that in the ministerial group you are going through these issues because these are really human tragedies. Mr President! Now, if ever, is the time for neighboring society. It is a time of humanity where selfishness and rights are put aside and looked around: could I be a help to my neighbor? This state of emergency opens up the opportunity for all of us to help where we see the need. A few more ideas, Mr President. This crisis has highlighted the reality that the main national priorities must be to ensure self-sufficiency in all possible situations. This requires that we carefully review the need for change that will increase our self-sufficiency rate. The debate that we are considering, for example, the state of support for agriculture cannot be the one where we are thinking about support for agriculture in some way on an equal footing with someone else's support, because support for agriculture is about Finnish food, its continued production and its self-sufficiency in the final games. Then there is the production of these necessities in Finland, or somewhere, such as China or India. The production of different products in Finland can ultimately be more profitable in the whole-woman assessment than moving the production of components somewhere outside Finland. Or what do you think, representatives: would you be willing to pay a few tens more for the phone if its components were manufactured here in Finland? All that cargo, when they're transported around the world, would go away. In practice, Finnish would succeed. This is just one thing, but there are thousands of them that this crisis in some way raises our horizons, and these are what we could discuss. Last but not least, Mr President, I would like to challenge the Finnish business community's efforts. The situation of Finns abroad has been raised here today by the representative of Kauma and by others. I am now challenging the business community's efforts, especially those large companies that have access to their own private aircraft. They could help expatriate Finns return to their homeland by arranging relief flights. Circumstances call for exceptional measures. This would be good domestic activity and certainly profitable for large companies in the long run, at least in an image. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u32	Mr President! The government has taken, you may say, exceptionally strong measures to protect the health and life of citizens. As part of this global solution, the Government decree on the activation, introduction of certain articles of the Emergency Act has been introduced here in Parliament. It can be said that in exceptional times, as we are now living in, it is extremely valuable that Finnish decision-makers are capable of being united and can share a shared picture of the situation. This seems to be the case now, and one can say that this crisis affecting our country and the whole of the world has also brought together decision-makers and we are also able to find difficult solutions. This is also reflected in the fact that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, when dealing with and drawing up this report, has been able to produce a unanimous report. On 16 March 1920, following cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Government has recognised the existence of exceptional circumstances in the country. In two respects, we have been found to have exceptional circumstances: under Section 3(5) of the Act on Preparedness, we are threatened by an epidemic, a pandemic which requires specific measures and the detection of exceptional circumstances. At the same time, the Government, together with the President of the Republic, has also stated that we are at present affected by Article 3(3) of the Emergency Act, which concerns the economic crisis. However, the points of the regulation which are now under discussion and which are also covered by the report of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are such that it has been decided to activate them and can only be activated on the basis of the criterion of the epidemic/pandemic in paragraph 5. It could be said that, in such a situation, the protection of the health and spirit of citizens is, of course, the primary measure that must be taken with all the necessary measures. Yet there can be no disdain for the financial distress that inevitably seems to follow. Many small entrepreneurs are now in great trouble. Activities are under threat and many jobs are under threat in Finland at the same time. It is therefore extremely important that we can also send a message from this hall to the Finnish industry, smaller and larger companies, that at this very moment it is important that we keep the wheels of the Finnish economy running and that all the sectors that are not directly affected by these problems caused by the corona virus can normally continue to operate and that all the measures that are required to prevent the spread of this virus are taken in companies and workplaces, but in all other ways we can continue to operate in companies and in that way keep the Finnish economy up. Today we received the Bank of Finland's forecast that our GDP, i.e. the national product, is expected to fall by between 1.5% and 4% this year. This prophecy tells us how uncertain a time we are living in. It can be said that this fork is very big, which can still happen, and now it is up to us decision-makers to do everything we can to build not only a bridge over this difficult period of time for Finnish companies but also a bridge for new growth. I would like to thank the government for the measures taken to support the economy and the Finnish economy, which have already been announced and communicated and which we know are still on the way. It is now necessary to send a message that the government will do everything in its power to keep healthy Finnish businesses standing and able to continue their activities after this crisis and continue to employ them. I know that all of this will certainly be done by the government and will also bring to Parliament the measures that will be taken. We are also living in exceptional times in this respect, but I would like to end this speech by saying that I am sure that we will get through this too. Finland has been identified as the best country in the world, including in terms of administration. We are able to tolerate crises of this kind. It is testing us, but when we join forces, both in decision-making and as a nation as a whole, we will be sure to get through this too and get over this crisis and past it after a while.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u33	Mr President! I already mentioned here last night that if companies are not supported, perhaps this number of deaths caused by a pandemic will be lower than those caused by the bankruptcy of companies and by the loss of jobs in future suicide cases. I have heard with some concern about some of the speeches that we are going to start handing out packages to people, so to speak, in the basic income type, and I hope that this sort of job will be given a little more attention. While this is a good idea, the problem is that it is such a big, huge amount of money that we can support companies, that companies can keep those workers still at work, but if it does happen that these companies are going to fall out of it, then we will still have to pay for the aid that has been started. Indeed, our only option to deal with this issue is — not because I am the heart of business — that these conditions will continue in the future. The real concern has come from entrepreneurs in the SME sector as to how they can ensure that these subsidies are not all supported and that they do so for the benefit of the big companies. In other words, practically every SME that I have spoken to has a view that how they are now being helped. The downside of this whole system is that now, for example, Finnvera guarantees that Finnvera can guarantee 80% of the loans, but at the moment, quite a few people have difficulty finding that 20% of the borrowing capacity in their own house or similar, because the situation and the problem is that not everyone necessarily even has that house. A lot of times this is going to happen, someone's gonna start something, and they're gonna need a certain amount of money to start it. Then he's raised that company, and he's got those employees with him. Now he is in a completely different situation, because then he may have started trying, so to speak, at EUR 1 000 and slowly gone, and now there should be tens of thousands of people who pay, for example, three or four people for six months. Such a person, an entrepreneur who, for example, lives on rent, i.e. does not have the house that he can pledge on it, has no real property that he could put in a 20 - percent guarantee. So that means that he will not receive the guarantee money through Finnvera on these terms, unless some kind of change is changed so that even if it is committed to paying wages,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u34	Mr President! Indeed, we live in exceptional times worldwide as the corona virus spreads rapidly everywhere. My concern lies with the elderly in Finland and Europe as well as in Syria in the case of refugees without access to treatment. The symptoms of respiratory infection are common in a number of patients, but in about one in six patients the situation may lead to viral pneumonia and some to respiratory failure requiring intensive care. The number of patients requiring intensive care varies from about 5% in China to around 10% in Italy. The need for intensive care is quite long, approximately 12 days. THL estimates that in Finland the virus could be transmitted to about 35% of the population. This information has been used to consider ways and capacities to respond to the provision of adequate treatment capacity. The Act on Preparedness enables the Government to strengthen the capacity of health care for both farms and staff, and with other proposed demarcation measures we hope to be able to limit the number of infections and their peaks and thus save lives. The changes caused by the Korona virus and the effects on the economy as well as people’s lives are seen in the long term. It is now essential to identify solutions to limit the spread of the virus and to ensure adequate management capacity and security of supply, as well as financial measures to cope with the acute crisis of individuals and businesses. After all, in such a situation, basic income would be a good safeguard for the individual’s livelihood, and I hope that we can quickly contribute to that solution. Before that, we will have to use existing measures. The sickness allowance is applicable when the person is in quarantine or isolation prescribed by the doctor. Sickness allowance compensates for loss of earnings caused by disability of less than one year. This should be considered, as Mrs Suomimela has already mentioned, for example. The focus is probably on the use of sickness allowance, as, for example, in the Uusimaa region, those experiencing symptoms are being directed to stay home without testing, unless the symptoms get worse. Confusion has been caused by instructions to be away from work two weeks after a trip abroad. If telework fails and the period's salary cannot be agreed with the employer, the period is unpaid and the income is ultimately secured through income support. At first, the effects of the interest rate have hit the tourism, restaurant and culture sectors most. It is now assumed that at least one third of demand in the service sector will disappear. Production chains have also been disrupted. The magnitude of the damage depends on the speed with which the virus epidemic is brought to an end. There will also be a great deal of need for resuscitation as the fight against the virus subsides. We should now ensure that viable companies and associations remain viable and that jobs are maintained. Even if business subsidies are successful, the global pandemic will have such a dramatic impact on the economic situation that rising unemployment will increase housing and income support expenditure. The need for handlers will also increase, and we will have to react quickly to this. In addition to what has been mentioned earlier, municipalities are in an exceptional situation, both in terms of ensuring staff adequacy and in terms of their economy. Tax revenue decreases the ability of municipalities already in a weak position to manage the quality of basic services and as employers. A welcome line on the possible cancellation of day care fees for children who remain in home care cannot be left on the hands of municipalities in this situation. It is good that more detailed guidance on participation in early childhood education is also known. Work and the challenges to be solved by the Government and this commendablely united Parliament will therefore be enough after the decisions on preparedness. One of my concerns is the adequacy of health care staff. Some of our staff are returning to their countries of origin, for example Estonia, some of them have fallen ill, some of them need to be re-educated to the needs of intensive care. The family and non-care providers who have helped and rehabilitated the elderly have been excluded because of the risk of infection. We should soon recruit volunteers, such as young people and garrisonmen, to help with the care of the elderly, so that we can secure the ability of our medical staff to cope with the effects of the virus, possibly even if it is too long. In Finland, children live together in very different conditions. School meals, school, hobby and library are a safe environment for many children. The crisis situation and financial concern make it harder for many adults to cope. I hope that schools and voluntary and leisure activities will consider ways of monitoring and supporting the well-being of children, even if they are not physically found. I hope for strength and patience in distance teaching for teachers as well as students and students. The younger the child, the more realistic it is to set goals. The strength of a Finnish school has always been the ability of a teacher to adapt to the situation taught. This is harder in remote education. I hope that too much burden and quantitative ambition will be avoided in order to create good experiences of success in distance learning. I believe that much new and good can be learned from this, even though it is a difficult situation. Come on, too, for teleworking parents who support their children’s studies! Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for your careful work and reports on the adoption of the preparedness law now proposed by the Government. This is the first time we've used a particularly heavy law. Special care is therefore needed. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u35	Let us now take Minister Paatero's answer to Mr Kivisaari's question.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u36	Mr. Speaker! What is the economic and operational capacity of the municipalities? It was a question, and I must say, I am sure you all know, that it is very different. When we published this report on the situation of all the municipalities, the financial situation and all the other situations, the differentiation seemed to be very large at that point. I have just said that in the amending budget we have already promised that during a certain period of time we will assess the need for the central government shares of municipalities because there will be more expenditure and less revenue, and also in relation to this share of corporation tax. The second aspect is how we move forward with the reform of social welfare and health care, and perhaps this is where we see how important it is for us to have greater shoulders in the future to take this issue forward. Then, for these critical sectors: It is now defined that we in the municipality have these, and I would like to mention it here because, for these reasons, we have early childhood education open so that we have people from social welfare and health care and education to take their children there, but also people from energy supply, waste management, water management, ict, the general infrastructure and others who keep our society up. At this point, we must also think that we have one public administration which is now the actor with the state and the municipality together, and that is something we can count on.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u37	Mr President! Finland has not been in exceptional circumstances since the war, nor has the preparedness law or similar regulations ever been used during the peace period. None of us have been in a similar situation before. This means that the need for our responsibility is now becoming even more important. I strongly believe that we must have a very high threshold for the introduction of competences under the Emergency Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs now agrees with this report, which we have received today. These powers should not be introduced lightly and should not be introduced solely in the interests of certainty. The powers of the Emergency Act cannot be introduced unless exceptional circumstances have been established. Now, in relation to the Emergency Act, we are dealing with a very widespread dangerous epidemic, namely a pandemic. Well, this week, in cooperation with the President of the Republic, the Council of State has recognised the existence of exceptional circumstances in the country, and today the Constitutional Committee has shared this view. I understand that we all agree on this picture of the situation here. It is very good and it is important that we seem to have a common understanding of the threat, its seriousness and what action needs to be taken here in Parliament to overcome this exceptional situation. Although we share a picture of the situation, it is important to acknowledge that we have to act in an uncertain and urgent situation. Yet, and especially so, I think it is important that lawfulness and due diligence are realised. Finland is and Finland must also be the rule of law from now on. That is why, even in this situation, fundamental human rights must not and cannot be restricted any more than is necessary. Mr President! Surely there is much that can be seen afterwards as to what could have been done better. Well, now, however, we cannot wait for this, but we must act on the best information available and our best understanding. The need for careful and lawful handling is also important because this situation and this process will also be an example in the future. It was also well mentioned here yesterday that the climate crisis and other sustainability challenges may well be the case, unfortunately, that the preparedness law is not being adopted for the last time. That is why it is important that we act with great responsibility the first time. At the same time, responsibility is also the reason why we are dealing here with the Emergency Act. Our job is to protect people's health and well-being. A particular concern is the high burden caused by the corona virus on our health care system. We must now take the measures that are necessary to protect each other, especially those of high-risk groups. That is why the Government has brought these regulations for the adoption of the Emergency Act to the parliament. However, the Korona virus also has a wider impact on society in a number of negative ways, and it is good to recognise that measures to prevent the crisis will also cause problems. That is why I too want to call for strong and courageous measures to safeguard people's well-being and people's livelihood. A good example of this is the idea of a basic result, even a temporary introduction, which has been mentioned here in several speeches. Mr President! It is great that Parliament is united in this serious situation. I too would like to thank you for that and I would also like to thank everyone who, through his own contribution, is involved in overcoming the serious situation caused by the corona virus. I personally think that society exists, because together we are stronger than alone, and now, under exceptional circumstances, this becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u38	Mr President! First of all, I would like to say that I trust that we will get through this very well. Finns are a tough people, and I believe that as decision-makers we all want to do everything in our power to get through this difficult situation again. Finland is not in a difficult situation for the first time, and we have always survived. We also have excellent healthcare staff. We have plans for a pandemic, we have experience in the treatment of a pandemic, and we are constantly receiving information — WHO, the European Agency for Diseases, all provide us with up-to-date information. We can anticipate things much better than before, and we have the best knowledge in the world. We can leave with confidence, but of course we have to be awake all the time and do things all the time. At the moment, here in Parliament, we are dealing with the regulations for the adoption of the Emergency Act. Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for their swift handling. Tomorrow we will continue with the implementing regulations for the various sectors. These Regulations are valid until 13.4. A month is a good checkpoint. At the time of the previous pandemic, during the pig inf-lumen in 2009, the limitation period lasted for three months, from 24 April to 27 July, and then the relaxation phase. Since this corona virus now seems to move much faster, the month is a good point of view. The point of view, too, is that we are now introducing rather powerful medicines, so to speak. That is why it is good for us to look at many things and even now to reflect on the time to come, that is to say, what we are assessing whether we are going to limit more, whether we are going to continue these laws, this introduction, or what we are going to do, that is to say, what criteria are being used to assess these restrictions and their effects. It must therefore be assessed no later than one month from the date on which the restriction may cause more adverse effects than the disease itself. Take, for example, the recession: the recession also causes a lot of health effects, many effects, but also health effects. That is why we must consider that the medicine we are now choosing is not more serious than the disease itself. Well, then we also have to think about it if these restrictions continue — I think we are probably in a situation where we are going to have to keep them up for a while, and I say that from the experience when I was in that swine flu during my time. We already have a plan to figure out what it means. After all, we now have to live quite a bit in such a way as to prevent the disease at the same time and at the same time to do things. It will require a great deal from this society, but the time will come when we will have to think about what the next stage will be, and its plan should start already. We need to think about the situation in the next month, what are the rights of people that must be realised in spite of everything. Today, for example, we in the Committee on Education and Education have considered the issues of education and education and early childhood education. We need to think about how companies are doing, how to keep jobs, how municipalities are doing, what are the risk groups that need to be given greater attention even after the intensified measures that we are now planning for them. I also hope that we are already considering what has risen in the messages that have come to me in quite a few, the situation of those over 70 years of age. We must also remember that we have a lot of 70-year-old people who are very active, who are, you can say, much healthier than younger people. I understand that it has been difficult to have that categorical age, because you should always leave that ability to function, but you should also think about not causing the health and mental health effects in another way. Well, how the health staff is enough, how they're doing, you have to think about it. Here are just a few themes that we have to start thinking about today. Another theme I would like to remind you of is organisations. We have a huge number of voluntary organisations, we have a lot of public health organisations, and in this context I would like to raise one of the largest public health organisations, the Finnish Heart Association. We have a very large number of heart-diseased people, and that is why today the Finnish Heart Association has published its action plan for the survival of heart-diseased and members. It's on the website. We have also approached members of the organization. For a month now, we have been there with information on what means a corona for heart sufferers, and we will also organize our field organization in various parts of Finland to help people and support people. The starting point here is that we, as an organisation, want to be involved. The third theme I would like to say at the end is combat fatigue. As the situation drags on, when it is unhelpful for us, it is worth preventing it now with all our strength. It concerns, of course, people in the health sector, it concerns businesses and organisations, it concerns individual citizens, it concerns decision-makers, it concerns all of us. Let's make sure the fighting fatigue doesn't surprise us. I would also like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that all the support you need will come from this house. We are also in the spirit. While we may not always be able to carry your burden in full, we will take hold of the corner. You can be absolutely convinced of that. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u39	Mr President! The first Finnish coronavirus infection was detected in the HUS area three weeks ago. The patient had travelled to Milan and sought treatment in good condition due to flu symptoms. WHO declared the corona virus epidemic a pandemic a week ago. Today we are introducing part of the competences of the Emergency Act in Finland. Last time I checked, the Act of Preparedness was used during the war. We are living in exceptional times and exceptional measures are needed, both in health care, in municipalities and in the state economy. Finnish hospitals and healthcare are preparing for treatment of corona patients. Our entire system was tested during the 2009-2010 pandemic and the national contingency plan for the pandemic has been updated since then. I would like to thank all those who have already participated in this preparatory work. Mr President! Healthcare professionals have been ready for weeks, and preparedness measures are currently being tightened around Finland. In the front line, professionals are doing their best, and at the same time, municipalities' emergency teams are working to organise emergency services. International cooperation plays a crucial role in this joint fight against the new virus. Finland has worked closely with the European Agency for Diseases and the World Health Organisation. Information related to the Koronavirus will be updated as new information is received from the world. The situation picture and recommendations are constantly being revised. Mr President! I worked as a doctor in the intensive care department of Turku University Hospital during a pandemic caused by swine flu in early 2010. The emergency surgery was suspended at that time, and all hospitals were prepared for emergency operations, just as they are now. At that time, around 10 per cent of the population became ill with swine flu in Finland. Some 1,600 patients required hospital care, of whom 44 died. Fifty-two per cent of Finns were vaccinated against swine flu. It is estimated that the rapid vaccination campaign prevented up to 800,000 flu infections and saved some 50 Finns. Hundreds of people die of seasonal flu in Finland every year. By the beginning of February, about a million Finns had taken the vaccine. At the moment, it seems that the peak of seasonal flu will be weak this spring. This will certainly play a role in the prevention of coronavirus, which started in February, and that is a good thing. Mr President! This pandemic is caused by a new virus called coronavirus, which causes influenza-like symptoms. There's no medicine, no vaccine. They're just being developed. Treatment of the Korona virus is symptomatic. Our aim is to make every effort to limit the spread of the new virus among the population. For risk groups, this virus can be fatal. Therefore, the most effective protection measures are targeted at them. In light of the information received so far, this virus is more dangerous than influenza. Although it only causes mild symptoms for a large number of people, it will be fatal for thousands of Finns. Hand hygiene, travel bans and quarantines aim to prevent the spread of the virus in Finland. This is a critical objective and must be pursued by all means. Finland seems to have got about a week’s head start compared to many European countries. That time must be used effectively. Mr President! In this fight, the home front has a key role to play. Every Finn can contribute to limiting the spread of the corona virus in Finland: wash your hands, keep your safety distance to other people and follow the instructions given. Now we need every Finn in the world for the fight against the corona. Finns have survived tough situations before. We'll get through this together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u40	Mr President! Finland will survive, and we can continue to call ourselves a welfare state. We just applauded my distinguished representative, Erkki Tuomioja, for his 50 years of valuable career in Parliament. It's amazing that there are roads among us that bring perspective to this house. However, the seriousness of the situation is evidenced by the fact that this law has not been dealt with before — even in 50 years. First of all, when dealing with the Emergency Act, we must bear in mind a big picture. This is a human and economic crisis, not ordinary legislation, but exceptional legislation. Because of the interest rate, people get sick, our economy has been stricken, including layoffs and redundancies, and municipalities will inevitably have an exceptional role to play. There is nothing that this issue in Finland would not be about. The big picture is that failure to act or the current state is not an option. The only option is to react when it comes to nature's own threat. We must put up with fast-track laws and be able to formulate them together so that we can control the pandemic and even out the peaks of disease. Ensuring the carrying capacity of health care is a priority in this rule of law in order to help those in need. Now we have to show the direction in which we stay on our feet with the peaks of disease. We are prepared for the unknown and we are setting up anticipating situations in China, Italy and Sweden, as well as other situations comparable to those of us. Finland’s respected research and expertise are now in real action. Mr President! The introduction of the Emergency Act is justified. I have been sitting in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for the past few days in the basement when we have dealt with this extraordinary and demanding law. The committee has worked on fundamental rights, human rights and the rule of law, building on this for the first time in the introduction of a new law for all of us. Thank you to our chairman, Mrs Ojala-Niemelä, for the good management of the committee. It is important that the committee has once again produced a unanimous report. Exceptional conditions in Finland. The powers of the Emergency Act should not be introduced on a light basis or in the interests of certainty, as the report also states. The report shows that this is not the case. The report describes why exemption legislation can be introduced in this vulnerable situation. The Act on communicable diseases is good in content, but it is not enough to keep our health system functioning, just as the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health said earlier, Mr Vehviläinen. Therefore, parts of the Emergency Act must also be introduced. The big picture must also be remembered in other committees and parliamentary debates. In principle, none of us wants to legislate against any law that undermines the rights of any human being. In this law, we restrict the fundamental rights of some people on a fixed-term basis because we protect the lives of those who are at risk. This is not ordinary legislation, but for the first time in our country's independence exceptional legislation under exceptional circumstances. Interest also changes the world economy permanently, possibly. Companies are already pulling production from China under duress and accepting more expensive work, as long as it is of high quality and certainty. The big picture of the economy is changing, and in some places it is very difficult to anticipate. Today, the Bank of Finland published its forecast that the interest rate can drop Finland's gross domestic product by up to four per cent according to the worst scenario. In this forecast we are moving in the same numbers as at the time of the financial crisis, which reflects the criticality of the time. Every day we need to re-evaluate how serious the threat of this virus is also to the foundations of Finland's economy, so that we are able to prepare financially enough. There are exceptional conditions in Finland, but I believe that, together with anticipation and research, we will be able to survive. The introduction of the Act of Preparedness is not a pleasant decision for any of us, even on a fixed-term basis, as is the nature of the law. Thank you in particular to the opposition for the fact that Parliament is in agreement and in one direction we are going.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u41	Mr President! We're looking at the world differently now. In the minds of many, the question is: can this be true? Aeroplanes do not fly, borders are closed, many streets are empty from people, children are not in schools. We are used to living in a free society and now we are introducing a law of preparedness that severely restricts the normal functioning of people. It is clear that in exceptional time we need exceptional solutions. Surviving the crisis and safeguarding human health is now our priority, and that is why this line by the Government, the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Committee on the state of exception and the introduction of the Emergency Act is the right one. This highly contagious coronavirus disease does not yet have a vaccine, and the only way to prevent it is to keep people apart. This action is necessary, but we still have to be careful and careful when it comes to fundamental and human rights. These rights must not be put aside even in the midst of a crisis. Restriction is our drug now. At the same time, however, many people work and are in contact with other people within the framework of their own work. My grateful thoughts are with these people — health professionals, early school educators, some teachers, police officers, and so on. It is also our job to protect them. While we are dealing with this acute crisis, we must be prepared for future effects. Already many people have lost their livelihood. Many single entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs are in a catastrophic situation. Large employers are also in trouble. We must work to preserve these jobs so that, at the end of the crisis, we have jobs and livelihoods for as many people as possible. Those who are left without work must also be provided with a livelihood during the crisis. We have certainly received messages from many of the most extraordinary situations in which man has been left behind as a result of the mild phenomena of this corona virus, perhaps in a special situation and is completely without income. The Corona virus threatens human health, and health is also indirectly threatened by the mild phenomena that result from this crisis and crisis management. These include loss of income, but also loneliness. I would like to raise the issue of loneliness, because when we are left inside four walls, we will not only miss out on many important human contacts. For many children, a teacher or a social worker is the safe adult when things are not good at home. For many old people, the only routines of the day are gone now that the hobbies are canceled.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u42	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u44	Mr President! We are in an exceptional situation as a result of the corona virus. The introduction of ready-to-lay laws is essential. Now we need all the means to get through this as a nation together. In its wisdom, Parliament has decreed for us laws that allow us to react even in the face of a threat such as the corona virus. These laws will help to ensure the security of citizens as far as possible in this situation. Parliament's support for the Government shows the exceptional unity that Finland now needs. The unity of the nation increases when times are hard. Faced with this new threat, we need clear, wide-ranging communication with all Finns so that we can answer the right questions for our citizens. What does this new situation mean for our family? What can I do for myself to prevent the spread of the virus? What does the Emergency Act mean for everyday life? The importance of communication in exceptional times is emphasised, and not only by the government, but also by us parliamentarians. We must follow the instructions given and set an example for all Finns. Mr President! In sectors that are critical to society — health care, food production, the food chain, logistics, grocery stores, pharmacies and many, many other sectors — workers have also today risen to serve the common fatherland. I have no doubt that this will continue to be the case. However, the introduction of the Emergency Act will allow the government to better control the epidemic and to have a clear division of labour. Parliament is now making available to the government the tools that need to be used in such a situation. I firmly hope that these tools will be sufficient, but it is possible that further action will be needed. Even that option should not be ruled out. The government of our country now has great power and responsibility — use, good government, this power responsibly and taking the best account of the Finns. Mr President! The regulations for the introduction of the powers of the Emergency Act should be maintained for as long as necessary but no longer. I hope we can get back to normal as soon as possible, or at least as normal as possible.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u45	Mr President! Mr President, you are now in an exceptional situation, because as an opposition, we have shown maximum support for you across party boundaries in this crisis situation. You now have the ban open, and we, as the Finns of Finland, are in the process of creating an atmosphere in which you will be further removed from your way so that you can introduce ever more stringent preparedness measures to protect Finns. According to general data, 3.9 per cent of the infected persons have died, and without extreme precautions under exceptional circumstances, many of us lose loved ones and those close to high-risk groups. No government has for some time been able to enjoy the confidence to act and even to give the opposition greater authority to move forward, but this is all based on trust. Regardless of our different ideologies, we work together unanimously, because we are now focusing on the essential issues that unite us, not on the issues of day politics that separate us. When we, as an opposition, show such great confidence in you, you must also show confidence in us in the government. This means that, in order for this unanimous move to be possible, we must be involved. The opposition, like the government, must be widely informed throughout the crisis, and new measures must be discussed together, as was done last week when the Prime Minister invited the leadership of the parties to the House of Regulation. The role of the opposition in a functioning democracy is vital, including in times of crisis. Without the opposition, there will be no blackmailer, no guilty conscience, and no spectator on the back of the coin. When you were at Säätytalo last Thursday, the Prime Minister told us that the Finns required the Act to be activated, the Coalition Party was ready for it when the government wanted it, but the government parties disagreed on the matter. And you used power in the government, and you didn't go out to use the Emergency Act. He said there was no need for that. Mr President! The pressure increased, and only a few days later the government took a turn and the opposition was already ready to take the strict measures of the Emergency Act and adopt them. We established our opposite view of the recommendations of the WHO and the European Agency for Disease Control, based on field knowledge of the situation in the affected countries, where Finland was not yet present. The government, for its part, based its knowledge on the views of health authorities who did not live themselves in times of crisis in such countries. Our role as politicians is to make decisions and value the information we receive, and not to hide behind others to wait, as if in a crisis state decision-making were to be outsourced to experts presenting different views. We in the Finns Party gave greater importance to the World Health Organisation and to the European Agency for Disease Control, because we estimate that their experts, in the midst of epidemic countries, have seen more than the situation that will be reached if action is not taken immediately. In democracy, we have again witnessed in Finland how the opposition plays an important role in the midst of the crisis. We're blackmailing you, and that's what we have to do. Otherwise, we wouldn't be doing our part right. I would ask you not to abuse our exceptional trust now as a government and to call for unanimity at the same time. There have already been warning examples. For example, a representative of the Centre Party’s Parliament said this: ‘The basic Finns are stepping on the foot, when the ‘red - green’ government set the borders to ensure the health and safety of their That's where all the teeth fell at once, and the rest of the teeth fell at the same time. Thank you again for the red mud government!” When they say these things after we have given our full support to the government and the closure of borders, it is like hitting them in the face. If someone were to do so, we too would take the necessary border measures if we were given a similar mandate. However, here too, the government went into the politics of the day, and the Greens were able to pass through political sentences to their supporters for briefings. So I am talking about the fact that when you close the border with your own citizens when the country is in an exceptional state, you still take asylum applications from Sweden, which is a safe country. Such launch sites should not be used now, because we have given you full confidence precisely because we expect you to act as you should under exceptional circumstances. Today, the Greens' representative, Mr Hassi, also began to speak on climate policy and, at the end of his speech, waited for the unanimous line to continue. We are ready to continue, but you are also. Let us now focus on the emergency situation in the country and involve the opposition in the flow of information and the planning of new measures. We will not go into the political position of the day if you do not force us to do so. I hope you understand that our trust must not be exploited under the pretext of the crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u46	Mr President! The first days of this week have been not only extraordinary but also hopeful. During the preparation of the adoption of the Act of Preparedness, Finns have already shown how community has begun to rise to the surface and the creative means of running everyday life have begun to become reality. The people have even acted before us. Our country has moved into a state of emergency in a controlled and restrained way, because that is what we Finns are. As has been said yesterday and today, the most vulnerable are our older population and people with different underlying diseases. It is very important that the risks are taken seriously now that we continue to live under truly exceptional circumstances. I understand that a shelter, a home, may start to feel small and feel that there is simply not enough to do. However, the joint effort of our nation will only succeed if everyone takes it seriously and people are able to stay home and isolated from other people. Help for those protected from the virus in their homes is needed from volunteers and public actors, all without close people who can bring food home or visit a pharmacy there. In exceptional circumstances, we must now also be able to secure the resources of home care and the health of those working at home. Nurses should not worry about whether you can find a substitute for evening, morning or night duty if your throat feels a little sore in the morning, but the fever is not yet present and whether I am now becoming ill or healthy. We people have a unique knowledge of disease, and we do not want to leave a fellow worker in trouble. However, there are exceptional circumstances. We've got to stay at home, and we've got to make arrangements to replace them. It must be possible to secure this by means of exceptional arrangements for transfers of persons. The boundary fences of mission photos and professional titles will be blurred. At the same time, the border between public and private health care is dim. This is what's gonna happen. Mr President! The pandemic has hit hard on companies of all sizes. I have received numerous contacts, above all from self-employed people working in the service sector. The booking books have been cleared out. The message has been repulsive and the concern for survival has been very genuine. The disease has hit the business field from side to side, regardless of the size of the company, the industry or the location of the company. Our nation is in this common need. I know that ministries and parliament have expertise. There is knowledge and there is understanding to respond to this concern. There have already been measures and there will be more, and we will probably be hearing them in this Chamber this week. I know that concern will be taken seriously because it is about the future of Finland. Entrepreneurs are the ones who employ, do the jobs of the future and keep the wheels of our country running. Mr President! The regulations before us today will allow our society to spin in a state of emergency. It's the settings that make life safe. They allow us to say later in the future that we Finns did well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u47	Mr President! The Constitutional Affairs Committee’s report rightly notes the following: ‘The maintenance of the functioning of the health care system during the pandemic is a very important criterion from the point of view Mr President! Oxygen will play a key role in the treatment of the corona virus. This is indisputable. Currently there is no vaccine, and pure drug oxygen can be used to treat patients’ lungs in this serious situation. It is estimated that in the first phase 35% of our citizens will be infected — that is to say, nearly 2 million of our population will be infected, at the first stage. There will be a huge need for oxygen in the care of our citizens. There is a very exceptional situation in Finland. Currently, hospitals and nursing homes use almost exclusively the bottled oxygen of two manufacturers. Already in Kouvola Sanomas a few days ago, the Finnish manufacturer announced the following: ‘A significant increase in hospital oxygen demand is expected in the company. “There are limits to the possibilities of preparedness. Even if production could be increased on behalf of equipment and human resources, the number of bottle shells will be met. There are only a limited number of oxygen bottles in the cycle.”’ I have had the opportunity to discuss this with experts and their assessment was that the need for oxygen will increase at least tenfold — tenfold. Mr President! However, in the world very commonly air from a generator to an electric source of oxygen is made on site, that is, where oxygen is needed. On-site oxygen is all-standard and as safe as a hundred times more expensive, sometimes bottled oxygen from very long distances — as simple as that. I have been working for years to resolve this problem. I have also been able to visit five ministers, and the reception has always been understanding and acceptable. However, for some reason, Fimea has not authorised the production of medical oxygen produced by the generator. True, the Pello health centre is an exception — there the chief has taken responsibility and the generated oxygen has been in use without any disturbance for four years. So we already have a working pilot in Finland at the moment. So we don't need a new pilot. Several hospitals and nursing homes have already installed functional systems. The only thing missing is Fimea's permission. Mr President! As we all know, the situation is very serious. Now all of us here and also outside the house must do everything together to minimise the effects of the interest rate. The government and this house now have power. Mr President! Is it not our job to ensure and do what we can to ensure that there will not be a first victim in our country, at least not because they have not received such important clean medical oxygen in time?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u48	Mr President! However, in this serious situation and crisis, the spirit of cooperation that exists here in this House across the opposition-government line and in which the Constitutional Committee also completed its report quickly and carefully. I would therefore like to extend warm thanks to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, its chairman and members, for the hard work last night. The situation is indeed serious, but unfortunately we are only on the eve of this epidemic. In the estimates presented by the Government, the number of people affected would be 35 per cent of the population, i.e. 1.9 million Finns. If 15 per cent of these people need hospital care, 5 per cent of them need intensive care, this means that during this whole epidemic period, altogether 278,000 Finns would need hospital care and as many as 96,000 intensive care. One of the tricky features of corona virus infection is that the need for intensive care lasts for a long time, i.e. the average length of intensive care is estimated to be 12 days, which is extraordinarily much longer than in other situations. According to expert doctors, in Finland, intensive care and supervision facilities could reach a maximum of about 1,000 at the same time, which in practice means only about 15% of the total number of people in need of intensive care. Indeed, these figures are so serious that I am sure everyone understands why we need these laws, why we need the capacities of a state of emergency. There are a lot of questions coming from our fellow Members — at least my own e-mail is extremely full, and unfortunately I have not yet answered all of them. They show that although much has been communicated — although the government has well informed — there are still very many details that remain unclear to the public. A great deal of information is needed now, and there is also a need for harmonised guidelines, because there are already some differences in the way these guidelines are applied in the municipalities. For example, there seems to be some variation in the interpretation of which professional groups eventually belong to these critical occupational groups, as well as whether or not a small school student can be taken to school if only one parent belongs to these critical occupational groups. I also received a question from a funeral home worker who wondered that at the funeral services now the ten - person assembly has become the limit, which is of course the church’s own definition, but in all cases even the immediate relatives, such as the children of the deceased, have not been able to fit in. Similarly, there have been inquiries from health care professionals as to whether special treatment can be given to healthcare professionals at risk. A public service broadcast under the authority of Parliament is now facing a particular challenge and it can be obliged to pay particular attention to these isolated citizens. It is now a great thing that children's programmes and educational programmes, for example, have already received attention, but I would also like to see the number of television and radio-broadcasting programmes strengthened by the YLE. When there are no services, many, for example, senior citizens who do not necessarily know how to use these streaming programs online would wish for that traditional television service. This week, many speakers have recalled the winter war and the spirit that was born there. We are not at war but, yes, in a very exceptional, frightening and distressing situation for many, in which the mental endurance of the nation is tested and many also face the fragility of its life. That is why I too dare, Mr President, to conclude by raising the situation and the memory of the situation over 80 years ago, in which Finland was attacked by the entire width of the eastern border, and in December in Pelkosenniemi, fear became a horror. It is reported that the president’s wife, Kaisa Kallio, in her radio talk, urged the people to pray, and contemporaries tell us that both in homes and in some public places, such as shops, people were all down on their knees, crying and praying, and a miracle occurred: in a few hours, the freezing of colds from the rain to nearly 40 degrees C.E., and the attacker’s equipment and crew were frozen. After all, a monument was still erected on the Cape of Fear, which reads “The Lord here helped.” Oppressions and crises always have opportunities, and I think that this exceptional situation will stop us in many ways at the very heart of life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u49	Mr President! At a time of crisis, I'd like to start with a positive story first. I just got word that no new cases of corona virus have been detected in Pirkanmaa for two days. This certainly does not mean that they do not exist, and I do understand the seriousness of the situation and support those actions which are widely supported by the government and this Chamber, but I wanted this kind of little positive signal to tell you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u52	Mr President! Finland has been declared a state of emergency from this date until mid-April. Now what we have read about is science fiction, and it was never believed to come true. The world is cluttering in its alliances, borders are closing, school contact education is being suspended, people's freedom of assembly is being restricted, and so on. We've moved on to a new era in world history. China remains permanently in our minds and history books as the source of the virus. The nations curl up in their own lands and families in their homes. There was no need for World War III. One small virus was enough. However, let us not despair, nor let fear take over. We're a tough people, aren't we? Surely many of us will get sick and also get better from it in the same way as from a normal cold. Risk groups include those over 70 years of age and those who already have a underlying disease or a weakened immune defence. The effects of the interest rate epidemic are also global in economic terms, and it is likely that its impact on the world economy will be great. Companies will fall, and unemployment will increase at least temporarily. In Sweden, the government promised a recovery package of some EUR 28 billion to prevent this. In Finland, approximately EUR 5 billion has now been earmarked for resuscitation. There will be more if necessary, the Minister of Finance promised at the government press conference last Monday. Mr President! The Finnish Government is facing a tough situation. Political responsibility must be taken up. You can't outsource it to experts. It took a while, but now it's taken. Finland is in an exceptional state due to a coronavirus pandemic and it is important that it is reacted in a forward-looking way. I therefore consider it necessary to introduce a preparedness law and these current restrictions. The purpose of these restrictions is to curb the growth of the epidemic and to ensure that not everyone gets sick at the same time, so that hospital places are sufficient for the good care of all the affected. This is a new virus that we do not yet have resistance to, so it is likely that quite a few of us will fall ill at some point during the spring. Some have called for even greater restrictions, but even if they temporarily stop the virus’s progression, the epidemic peak would occur immediately when the restrictions are lifted. Mr President! Many questions and concerns have come from the citizens. Under the Act on communicable diseases, regional authorities have already imposed a ban on schools for local education, and schools are now considering how distance education is organised, and there is a need for uniform guidance on it and plans for the post-corona period. Early childhood education fees have also become the subject of surveys. At least the city of Tornio has decided not to collect them if the children do not come to day-care centres and argues that, since they themselves are asking for children to stay at home, it would be unreasonable to charge fees. I believe that this is sensible and fair, and I hope that similar payment facilities will be found in other municipalities as well. School dinner has become a lot of questions. Low - income families have concerns about how to cope when free school food is left out and the family’s food bill grows. This concern is certainly justified, especially in families with many children and in the household of single parents. This will certainly be considered throughout Finland, and I hope there will be a solution. Mr President! In the midst of the crisis, the nations return to basics. The survival of society and its citizens from this crisis is now the most important thing and it drowns in secondary issues and inter-party differences. The coming spring will be different from what we're used to.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u53	Mr President! This Government decree on the introduction of the Emergency Act is no small thing. It has been first considered and submitted to Parliament by the President of the Republic and the Government. It is a major step towards introducing exceptional circumstances. This is an exceptional time, and when a preparedness law is decided, it is an extremely serious situation in society. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has submitted a report on the introduction of this Emergency Act and, with minor changes, has presented it to Parliament for approval, and that is what we are doing. This corona epidemic is extremely serious. These drastic measures have been introduced elsewhere in the world, and the tracks are visible. This is particularly visible in the economy, but also in many respects as a human tragedy in the number of deaths. That is why we must do everything we can to ensure that this wretched disease does not get any wider and can be contained. Mr. Speaker! The basics raise their minds in such a situation. There is talk of security of supply, that we have enough food, that we have energy, heat and electricity for people, and that we have medicines. These are all the things that each country looks at from its own perspective when that crisis is on. It is good that we have taken care of these issues in this country: self-sufficiency of food, energy self-sufficiency and the availability of medical supplies. They are needed now, and we must continue to ensure that we are more self-sufficient in these matters. Companies have a strong crisis awareness of what is going on and there are great concerns. Financial measures have been launched from the government's side, and the amending budget will come to us here in Parliament on Friday, and next week we will deal with it. This is the first step in being able to provide financial support and to ease the pressure that is currently on our business field. The government and the social partners have been discussing, and now we have already received the message that the social partners have played their part in making proposals. This first package comes to the first emergency, but I am quite sure that we will return to economic issues several times this spring. We will return several times this spring to the company's ability to pay, to the profitability situation. These tracks, of course, go further into the future, and this whole final term of our elections will be very much focused on the management of employment, the management of the economy and the management of the means by which we are going to go beyond this crisis. Mr. Speaker! Companies have a strong understanding, as I said, of this crisis awareness, but unfortunately not all citizens have it yet. I would like to stress that the Emergency Act is not being imposed for nothing. Citizens, please follow the rules that are now being given to you, and even if they seem trivial at the moment, they have been made because of the ability to contain this epidemic. Here you could use as some kind of illustration what you learned in the army: There is a hurry to wait, and even there on the front when you're a cop in the foxhole, the first person to raise your head is at great risk of getting that shot into himself. In other words, because we are on the front line together, the prevention of those shots from having to be received by no one is now being acted upon together, and together we will also be able to get through this. The most important thing is that we inform and inform in a timely manner, as the government has done, in an up-to-date manner of informing and educating people. Proper information in a timely manner is the factor in the public awareness of this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u54	Mr President! We are indeed facing a serious situation, and I would not have believed when I took a national defence course in 2010 at that provincial level and also then in 2012 here at national level, 201th course, where we were just practicing this kind of crisis preparedness administrative activity that I would never come so here in Parliament to act. I must say yes to those courses that they provided a certain level of thinking capacity for accepting different things and, in particular, for what has been emphasised here: close cooperation with the various actors in society, and how it will be tightened up and strongly worked together in a crisis situation. Indeed, the amendments to the Emergency Act are being discussed and, as has been emphasised in these defence courses, how the vital functions of society will be safeguarded is a strong starting point. It is right to thank the government for the fact that it has also acted quickly here at the moment and that the conditions for health care are being secured by these emergency legislation. ‘The maintenance of the functioning of the healthcare system during the pandemic Thank you to the Constitutional Committee for this sound basis for what you have done there. This now opens the door to the obligation to work in health care and also in other vital functions, as well as to medical care and so on. But in this package of our preparedness laws there will be even wider areas related to our financing and business activities and so on. This is a tragic issue for the people close to us, and I would like to stress precisely the relationship with the elderly or other people who find it very difficult to get this pandemic and disease, that we, through community, should assist them, be involved, that we would use as much neighbourly assistance as possible — that is to say, we should take into account and also use these existing electronic tools, that we should not leave people alone in any situation, but at least keep in touch with them through various instruments. The other group on this issue are our entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurs. They are in a very difficult situation if they do not get the labour force or, for example, on the restaurant or assembly side of the business. Similarly, we would have to secure local entrepreneurs and use those business services as much as possible and also make it clear to companies that, if you have the opportunity to act, act as long as you are able to do so in your own business, if it is not directly prohibited or hindered by the laws or instructions of this pandemic. Many small entrepreneurs and probably older entrepreneurs wonder how to get along and whether I can continue as an entrepreneur after this. Let us see how this EUR 5 billion recovery package works, which is being created here — and I am sure we will be able to learn more about it by Friday at the latest, what kind of activities it will have to do with funding and the financial and operational relief of businesses in the near future — but also the promises of an even greater recovery are in order. I would also like to thank the social partners and the entrepreneurs who have just recently come to an agreement in their own view on the various flexibility that is needed here. I would also stress this security of supply aspect in the same way in different areas of activity, so that we also have employees in rural businesses, that food runs equally and that we have warmth and security in our dwellings. I also strongly agree with Mr Savola's view that once we have received various instructions from the government and very many companies have been very actively involved in the prevention of the pandemic, they will be followed. Remember to wash your hands and then be at an appropriate distance from people. The words of President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic were certainly good, that is, physical distance but spiritual contact.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u55	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, the honourable people of Finland! Usually, when I climb up here to the floor, I have with me a strong opinion of some mishap, and it is my custom to speak in such a way that the tanner fudges and the fence falls. Even now, there would be a place for this because of hundreds and hundreds of citizens' messages, which wonder that it seems that no matter how fast Finland is caught, asylum seekers will continue to wander into the country even from safe countries — but now I will not take this up. There's come a moment where you need to breathe a moment deeply and calmly. Mr President! There has been one thing in the minds of the peoples of Finland and the whole world lately, the corona virus. The e-mails of the MPs have been filled with the questions of concerned people and citizens about how to deal with this serious enemy of the pandemic against health and the economy. In the face of a global pandemic, it is always better to prepare properly than later to regret. As the virus spreads, it has become increasingly unpredictable, and even younger and healthier people have been subjected to intensive care around the world. We don't know the consequences yet. We don't know the consequences yet. We are now facing a serious threat. All the measures that our government has finally taken are necessary, and I hope that they will be sufficient. I personally believe that they will curb the spread of the disease and, at best, reduce the duration of its rampage. Thank you to our government for this. Now it's time to work together. Together we must look to the end of this as a united nation, and I trust that all the honourable Members, all 200 together, will agree with me that, in this situation, we are not going to give up. Mr President! Nothing bad, if not something good. I am pleased to note that the desire to help has raised its head, and neighbouring aid has been provided for the most vulnerable, the basic and the elderly, on the initiative of citizens in many municipalities and cities in Finland. This, of course, gives hope to us decision-makers in the fight against this invisible enemy, and what we need most now is this kind of love of neighbor and caring for others. Our companies must also be helped and guaranteed that the situation they have caused for an independent reason will not cause unreasonable suffering and the worst possible result for their business. We have thousands of small entrepreneurs at the moment with a cash flow of zero because the customer flow is zero. Entrepreneurs from small to large in all sectors are the basis of this country. In the future, once the epidemic has been resolved, we will certainly also be able to deal with the damage to the economy. Mr President! I send the whole Finnish people the strength to endure this hopefully short delay on the long path of life and the wisdom to act with common sense. We're all in this together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u56	Mr. Speaker! We are now discussing these two reports by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, reports 2/2020 Parliaments and 3/2020 Parliaments on the introduction of this historic emergency law for the first time in Finnish history, of which we conducted a referral debate yesterday Tuesday, and I would like to thank the whole of Parliament, even in this single reading of the reports, for the fact that we are united in the face of this epidemic, the pandemic, the threat to the lives and health of Finns. Although sometimes words and words are twisted and twisted here and there are different domestic policy issues and economic issues, and sometimes we get together a little bit, and that is what I sometimes do in this Chamber, it is important that, when our nation really faces a serious danger, we are able to unite in this way. The strength of a small nation lies in its unity. Thank you again for this constructive action across the party lines. President! At this stage of the corona pandemic, I think there must be everyday heroes. We know that the health care staff is the one who is being looked at, but we have everyday heroes in the stores, bus drivers, taxi drivers who work while the risk is at hand, but I would say that the everyday heroes of Parliament at this stage are members of the Constitutional Committee and also the highly legal, good committee advisers of the Constitutional Committee. Thank you very much to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. You have worked through the night, and in the morning, under very heavy pressure, you have done a wonderful and careful job, as I have read through these reports. Last season I myself was allowed to be a member of the Constitutional Committee and I know how demanding and burdensome that work is and it will not be easy to quickly establish a legally sound assessment, which will perhaps be interpreted in decades' time. President! I would also like to point out that I think that this discussion of the regulation on the introduction of the Emergency Act is also proof of the functioning and viability of our institution in the Constitutional Committee, and I am happy, President, that these regulations did not fully go through — someone could say that it was a pity or the government made a mistake that the regulations were not fully in force, but I think it is a very safe and good message that the Constitutional Committee said that this so-called obligation to work in this second regulation did not remain in force, that there was not sufficient justification for it, and that one point had to be deleted from there. In the technical amendment, too, this particular technical error was found, which will have to be examined. I think that the fact that the Constitutional Committee, despite this haste, found a mistake, corrected it and prevented certain decisions that the government demanded, tells us that our constitutional control works and that we do not need any constitutional court here in Finland. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u57	Mr President! The corona virus is rampant all over the world. Three weeks ago, we heard about the first patient diagnosed here in Uusimaa who came from an infected area in Europe and, of course, I regret that we did not work harder in health care for these three weeks. Two weeks in quarantine or telework for everyone arriving in Finland and more of those tests since that first incident three weeks ago, the situation would certainly be different at the moment. But now we're here and we're looking forward. There are exceptional circumstances in Finland, and we are discussing the Government's decree on the introduction of certain powers in this session. Preparedness Act for the first time in peace conditions in Finnish history. I have had the privilege of being involved in the work of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and I would also like to thank our chairman, Mr Ojala-Niemelä, very much. There have been exceptionally specific issues and issues on the Constitutional Committee in recent weeks and months, and now for these last few days this exemption law. After all, this formulation of the regulation is about the application of powers. It's possible. In other words, the powers do not automatically come into force without a separate consideration. The purpose of all of this, the introduction of the powers provided for by the Regulation, is therefore to ensure the adequacy of staff and services in social and health care, rescue services and emergency centres, to complement public health services, where necessary, with private service provision, and also to increase facilities for intensive care. All of this is necessary and, of course, as we pointed out in the report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs feels that it would have been appropriate to mention the exceptional circumstances at hand and to open them up somewhat more precisely, for example, in the preamble to the regulation. Similarly, we are thinking of the competence in the area of medical care: it would have been appropriate to open up the reasons for the immediate need for enforcement. But all in all, in these busy few hours, I would see that the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is of quite high quality. Article 5 of the Government Decree refers to the employment obligations of health care personnel and the introduction of the regulation in that respect. The obligation to work for health care staff and the possibility of assigning new jobs is very important in exceptional circumstances, but it is also very important that, when we can impose the obligation to work, we also take care of the clauses protecting the status and rights of the worker at the same time. Thus, there were paragraphs such as the restrictions on the issuing of a work order, the conditions of employment and the conditions of employment. These, for example, would not have been introduced in the regulation and this is the reason why we could not include the obligation of health care staff under Article 5 of this Government Decree. In our health care sector, professionals have raised quite a number of figures on the sick, and in fact the estimates made by the Government are also of the order that about 35% of the population will become ill. That means 1.9 million citizens. Enough hospital care has been thought of as 15% of the sick and 5% of the intensive care. This means that 278,000 Finns would need hospital care and 96,000 citizens would need intensive care. Moreover, when it is thought that the need for intensive care could be up to 12 days, that is, much longer than the usual intensive care period, the requirements are, of course, high. As a specialist, I myself would like every Finn to take this corona infection situation seriously in such a way that these figures in Finland would be significantly lower, and I personally believe that we have the full potential to do so, when each of us follows the instructions and regulations given: to take care of that hand washing, to keep his hands off his face, to keep his physical distance but his emotional closeness to other people, and, of course, to the elderly and those at risk in a more fragile situation, we need to pay special attention. It has been pointed out here that there is already a special support package for entrepreneurs on the way. Here I would raise people in the art field, present artists who are once and for all, like cutting out the end of opportunities and also the income. In the next package of support, I would like them and their livelihoods to be taken into account as well. With regard to Yle, I would argue that Yle would go through her program in such a way that not only the worship programs and services — which are needed — but also the teaching programmes, nature programs, would certainly be in storage in the archives, there would also be gymnastics programs, i.e. everything for those who are at home in quarantine, and especially for the elderly, and thus YLE would also be very much involved in these activities to promote health and well-being. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u58	Mr President! Indeed, as has been mentioned many times in this Chamber, we are now living in exceptional times, and that is why we must also be able to take exceptional decisions and measures to protect our nation. Therefore, the exceptional but necessary measures proposed by the Government and the partial introduction of the Emergency Act are fully justified measures in this situation. The citizens now expect us from our decision-makers to put aside secondary differences and to tighten up. Finland has always done well with cooperation, the ability to agree and strong solidarity. This unity is now needed in this exceptional situation. It is now up to us to protect those who have built this country for us. We must take responsibility, especially for the elderly and others at risk. This responsibility lies not only with the decision-makers but also with every citizen. In order to achieve this, we must first and foremost ensure that we take care of the carrying capacity of our social and health care and the ability and ability of those working in critical jobs. Mr President! Yesterday, in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, we received an update of STM, THL and the University of Helsinki on the corona virus situation in Finland and the world. I myself have always relied on the expertise of the Finnish health authorities in the assessment of measures. However, based on the information we received yesterday, confidence grew even stronger. Based on the information given to the committee, Finland has acted just in time and in many ways even faster than in other countries and also in the Nordic countries in relation to the progression of the corona virus. I would therefore like to thank the STM and THL at this stage for their excellent work and for the very competent and consistent work done by Prime Minister Sanna Marin and the government in this difficult situation for the well-being of citizens. It is particularly important now that we give all our support and peace not only to our social and health professionals but also to our other experts to do their work in peace and not to question their expertise in dealing with the situation on a regular basis. When we as a nation have survived the epidemic, the evaluation will come. Mr President! According to Article 5 of the Government Decree, the obligations of health care personnel under Section 95(2) of the Emergency Act could be applied throughout the national territory. However, in its report, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that this Article 5 should: must now be repealed. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs justifies its proposal by the fact that there is a specific set of provisions in Chapter 14 of the Emergency Act on the obligation to work. The chapter contains provisions such as restrictions on the issuing of a work order, considerations to be taken into account when issuing a work order and the conditions of the employment relationship. However, according to the Government decree, these provisions of the Emergency Act would not now be adopted. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers it necessary that the status and rights of a worker be protected in the manner provided for in Chapter 14 of the Emergency Act or by other provisions of at least equivalent level. When the powers of Chapter 14 have not been explicitly introduced and no explanation of any other applicable legislation has been presented, the Constitutional Committee considers that Article 5 of the Regulation on the introduction of the Constitutional Treaty must now be repealed. Mr President! It is precisely the application of the work obligations of health care staff that has, of course, given much thought to people who have been trained in the health sector these days. Who has an obligation to work under the Emergency Act? What kind of tasks may be assigned? I'm on family leave, taking care of a small child at home, can I be assigned to work? I've been retired for three years, can I still be assigned to work now? I'm a family nurse. Can I have a work order? I'm on study leave, can I still be assigned to work in the middle of my leave? Can I be assigned to work in a place other than where I live or normally work? Among other things, those who have been trained in health care are now thinking about such matters. I would therefore have asked the Prime Minister/Government if they had been at the site,but perhaps there is a need for a message: does the government still like the introduction of the new,corrected regulation’sprecautionary law95§2in this case,wherein the draft Constitutional Act takes account ofthe
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u59	Mr President, värderade talman! Indeed, we are living in exceptional times, as has been said many times here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u60	Mr President! It is very easy to agree with the thanks given to the Government and the Constitutional Committee this afternoon. Very consistent work has brought our legislation on exceptional circumstances forward. Finland is reacting rapidly to exceptional circumstances through the introduction of preparedness legislation. It has been particularly nice to see that cooperation with the opposition in a crisis situation seems to work. As has been said here in many speeches, it is also important that Finns receive and have received up-to-date and correct information about the situation in the pandemic. We have heard enough predictions and different figures — perhaps it is not a good idea for us laymen to get to grips with them. The legislation now adopted enables health care and municipalities to react and safeguard the well-being of Finns on the basis of the legislation of exceptional circumstances. The crisis is a humane challenge and also poses major challenges and risks to the economy and employment. Thank you already at this stage to the social partners, who have prepared a rather tight package for the government to assess. The EUR 5 billion package of financial support in preparation also urgently needs to be prepared for action, and in particular it needs to be targeted, as has been said in many speeches today, to support SMEs. The service sector and the restaurant sector currently suffer most from this, and yet we have 42% of jobs in those sectors. It must also be ensured that the Finnish social security system operates more efficiently and financial assistance is available to people who are covered by it and who urgently need it. Municipalities have a big role to play in Finnish everyday life, and the decisions we make, especially in early childhood education and basic education, make a huge number of special arrangements and resource assessment and regular adjustment measures for personnel. In this situation, it is particularly important that the decision-making capacity of municipalities is maintained in this situation. Mr President! Local government finances have been fairly discussed in this Chamber. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has now asked the big cities to assess the situation already this week. I myself tried to find out these impacts on the local government economy as a whole from an economic expert in one city and I got estimates of such figures that, for example, the yield of municipal tax is about 1 to 3 per cent and corporate tax 10 to 20 per cent — where the government is now also building tools. It is estimated that customer fees would be reduced by around 4% to 5%, that additional health care funding has been sufficiently estimated at between 3% and 5%. In addition, there are expenditure-increasing and decreasing factors in the operating economy of municipalities, depending on the impact of closures, staff numbers, purchasing services and, for example, the cost of managing employment. Local government finances will indeed need support when it is known that a large proportion of Finnish municipalities made deficit accounts in 2019 and many municipalities already had Yt-procedure tools in place. Local government finances are also likely to be affected by the fall in the financial markets, and financial prices are likely to be subject to upward pressure, especially in the price of low interest rates and short-term funding needed by municipalities. As Mr Paatero said, the toolbox for the survival of local government finances is urgently being prepared. The impact of the economy as a whole is very difficult to assess now, mainly in terms of the length of this crisis. Today, for example, new estimates of GDP were heard again as to whether it was between 1.5% and 4%. So far, we have been talking about between 1% and 5%. But this is the way it is in this situation. Mr President! Despite all the challenges, the human and economic crisis also has factors that unite the nation, and we must now seek strength in this situation. We must work together and work together to resolve this crisis. I have no doubt that this will not happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u61	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and its chairman, Mr Ojala-Niemela, for this prompt action. It is very good that an assessment was immediately obtained from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs as to how things can be carried forward. Even the partial introduction of the Act of Preparedness is a powerful measure, but the disease is very serious, and everything must be done to limit it, especially in order to maintain the health of the citizens and, in particular, of the elderly. The legislation already in force has made it possible to act. For example, THL, STM, municipalities, regional government agencies and hospital districts have already anticipated, i.e. through the method of preparedness, to move things forward. First of all, it is very important at this moment to consider how the Finnish administration is organised. It is a very well-functioning system and has already been praised throughout the world. This introduction of the Emergency Act is, of course, a precautionary measure for all that is possible if the situation is even more escalating. Let us hope that this is not the case. Well, in the case of staff, above all, the health of early childhood education and class teachers, nursing staff and other servants must be taken care of and, of course, the availability of sufficient staff. Security of supply is one important issue. There has already been good experience of this and, above all, maintaining the availability of medicines is a very important issue, and it would probably be good for Finland to prepare itself in the future to have enough of its own pharmaceutical production. We must also take good care of the livelihoods of those who are in this distress. Above all, there is a need for a united spirit and a combination of coal. It's important at the moment. Thank you to the opposition. The opposition has been very open and sympathetic to this issue, and I assume that we have a really good spirit here in order to move this issue forward and manage Finland in this situation. Let us hope that very, very good cooperation will continue. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u62	Mr President! The handling of the Act of Preparedness in Parliament has so far shown that, in a difficult situation, Finns are able to cooperate by putting their everyday differences aside. It is good that the government has now taken steps to seize and control the corona epidemic. I attach particular importance to the role of President Sauli Niinistö of the Republic in this matter and to the fact that the President has been active so that these measures now under decision-making can be taken at all. The interest-rate crisis is making great progress and we do not yet know how it will work in our country. I hope as few people as possible get sick, and I hope no one dies. The epidemic can be slowed down if everyone follows the instructions and regulations of the authorities. I hope that everyone will do so, and I promise to follow them myself. Surely it will happen that at least in the close of many people, someone will get sick. We are particularly concerned about elderly people at risk or those with a underlying disease. They need caring, but they shouldn't get too close. It's a difficult situation, but it's important to show that we care about each other. In this situation, it is also important that we show appreciation to people who work daily to help others. They are present not only in health care and the police, but also in the service professions that keep the wheels of society running, such as shopping bags, public transport and so on. Mr President! The future of many companies and jobs is now at stake. The Government has announced initial support measures and more are needed. The Coalition Party has put forward a proposal for further action and we hope that the government will take it up. Labour market organisations have already demonstrated responsibility and interoperability by stating that they have agreed on their own proposals. I still hope that the government will do everything in its power to make these things happen. It should be noted that the organisations themselves state that the measures they are proposing are not a comprehensive package and that more solutions are needed. Unfortunately, for example, no progress has been made with regard to the income security of entrepreneurs. My main messages to the government are: Firstly, the fact that we in the opposition support all the genuinely effective measures taken by the government to minimise the impact of this crisis on our nation. My second message is that you, the government, have now started well, but not enough has yet been done, especially in terms of maintaining businesses and jobs. Thirdly, measures and solutions are now needed very quickly. Every day is significant. I trust that these messages will come through and that the government's work for the good of the nation will continue to be active. Mr President! Together, taking care of one another, we can cope with the uncomfortable and difficult times ahead of us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u63	Mr President! We have found ourselves in a situation that the government must react to, and that is indeed what has been done. For a well-founded reason, we are discussing the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the introduction of powers under the Emergency Act. I would like to thank the Constitutional Committee for its excellent work in a timely manner under great pressure. Thank you, Mrs Ojala-Niemelä, and to the committee as a whole and, of course, to the committee advisers. Your work has been very significant and exemplary for the benefit of all Finns. That's a big thank you. The whole of Finland is currently working in different directions to get control of the corona virus, that as many people as possible would not suffer from it and that the functions of society would be safeguarded. The most important thing is to safeguard people's lives and health. That's number one, and there's no need to compromise. At all levels of our society there are security measures, preparation measures, so that I can say that today I made a long call with my municipality of residence, Ilomants and the mayor, and there too, in the easternmost municipality of Finland, there is currently a very strong effort to ensure that people's health and safety are guaranteed and that care works under all circumstances. At the moment, we are certainly all thinking about how health care can provide care for people who are sick. Personally, I have no doubt that this will happen. The Finnish health system is able to react and has survived much more difficult situations. It concerns health care and social care and, in general, the services provided by society to its citizens. We have established procedures, good organisations and, above all, highly skilled people. It is a huge resource for our society. It has been tested so many times so far and there is no doubt that it will work today. It requires sacrifices, it takes a lot of work, but if I have understood correctly what is going on — and I am sure I have understood correctly the conversations of Finnish people — then everyone wants to be very involved in this work, and precisely so that people’s lives and health are safeguarded. Coronavirus as a disease is very serious. We do not really know what the consequences are at the moment, except for a little surface sweep, which is what we are at the beginning of that trip. At the moment, we are already going with the virus in China, so to speak, in the late stages, where the worst is apparently over, but there is still no reason to stop doing so. They too are doing a strong job there to protect people. There has been great wisdom in Finland that, for example, we have stored medicines in warehouses, pharmacies and hospitals so that we can secure people’s access to medicines even under difficult conditions. For this we could thank previous decision-makers for having had the wisdom to see that the nation also needs drugs and a lot at a difficult time. The reserves of obligations are in good shape and, above all, pharmacies will then be able to provide further advice if necessary and doctors will then receive the necessary advice, as we have already heard from the public media, if people suspect that they have contracted this virus. The Korona virus also strikes the Finnish economy very strongly, it comes like a tsunami. We have already heard and read in various media what consequences it has had up to now. The layoffs are on the way, production is being driven down — e.g. I just heard that a Finnish major company that manufactures forest industry machinery is currently laying off staff because of the fact that components from the world are no longer available for the product produced by their company. In other words, production is being driven down all the time, people are being laid off. The government must react to this in such a way that we are able to provide people with adequate livelihoods. It is clear that it also requires major financial sacrifices, but it must be a front-runner for Parliament to show the way that we will get through this situation, and the government of the country will certainly think at every moment on a 24/7 basis, which is the next move, that we will be able to minimise the damage. It is clear that damage is coming, but what is needed now is the spirit of the winter war, the spirit of which there has been much talk. When this wave of corona virus has passed and we begin to return to the so-called normal order of things here in Parliament and also throughout Finland, then the government must be an example of showing support to those companies and all actors that the jobs that have been in difficulty will return to normal conditions and we will get back to everyday work seriously, with minimal damage. Although the situation is serious, there is absolutely no reason for fear or exaggeration, but we must work together on this issue, and it seems that this difficulty will also be overcome. As the President of the Republic has said, this is where this community of ours is once again vindicated. I hope that the next big debate will take place after overcoming this disease on how we in this country can secure security of supply. That is too little in this debate. We must be able to secure food for everyone, energy for everyone, good conditions for everyone, all these activities that have so far been a sideline in discussions, energy production for example. We are currently importing a huge proportion of electricity from abroad. Imagine if we had had this winter, even if it was a huge freezer, one day it will come. What kind of trouble would we be in if it was 30 degrees below zero and we were in this situation? The situation would be much more serious. On these issues of security of supply, we will be forced to return when this worst crisis is over, because without reasonable preparation we will endanger the health and safety of our citizens in the next crises, and that must never happen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u64	Mr President! The Act of Preparedness is a tool. It's not an end in itself. It will not, as a law, remove corona infection from our country, but it will provide tools to control and control the epidemic. What is the picture of the situation in which we now took or are introducing certain articles of this law? It has been said that we must not be intimidated, and I think that I would be the last one to intimidate in these matters, but we must realistically see the threat that we are now rejecting, and if we succeed in combating it, then everything will go relatively satisfactorily. The image we are rejecting is that we are currently aware of the situation in China and Italy, which are one month ahead of us in this situation, that when corona infection strikes a person over 80 years of age, the mortality rate is 15%. The mortality rate in the 70-79 age group is 7%. And it should now be stressed that, as I said just now, this means that there has been an infection, and what matters now is whether we have a death toll of zero or 500 or 5000 or 10,000. It depends entirely on whether we have this disease spread to 1%, 5%, 10% or 20% of the population. This is at the heart of this issue, and that is why these restrictive and isolation measures have now been introduced, and that is why we need a preparedness law here. I try to describe in a very practical way what it means now that these articles — that is, Articles 86, 87, 88, 93, 94 and 109 — are: — to be introduced. To put it that way in general, it means in practice — I am now using a bit of the language of the people, not the expression of a lawyer, because I am not a lawyer — that the social and health services system, which we have, whether municipal or private, or which consists of individual professionals, is to be managed by the state in a certain way. The State is represented by the Government, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and then regionally avit, Regional State Administrative Agencies. In practice, it means, in Article 86, that the state authorities may order the social welfare and health care unit — i.e. the retirement home, the enhanced service housing unit, the hospital, the health centre and so on — to expand its activities, change its activities, relocate its activities, reinvest it, take care of the patients now needed, even if they are not otherwise treated, or hand over resources. This is therefore the content of Article 86. Article 87, which was adopted yesterday by an urgent regulation and which I understand will then be approved by Parliament through its supervision, concerns pharmaceutical companies, wholesale companies, pharmacies and traders who may also be ordered to relocate or expand or change their activities. Well, then, there's Article 88. Don't get me wrong, but I wouldn't put much emphasis on that. It's the section where a certain distinction is made between non-urgent treatment. That's how health care has always worked. When we did not have these treatment guarantees in force, whenever, even in the course of the year, there was a greater need for acute care, then this non-urgent treatment was reduced, but now that we have these rights of treatment in law — three months and so on — it is of course necessary to intervene through legislation to ensure that they are not complied with in all respects in this situation. Then there's Rule 93. is very important. It concerns the intervention of health care, social services, rescue services, emergency centres and police staff in matters of the Act on Working Time and Annual Holidays. In national terms, holidays can be ordered to be transferred, overtime can be imposed. Of course, they are paid for, there is no free-of-charge employment obligation here. Still here I dare say that Article 94 is not so important, i.e. this extension of the notice period. For now we do not have very much of this workforce here to increase. Then there is this Article 95, which has yet to be reconsidered, but which I hope will soon be available to us, that is to say, this obligation to work, which means a period of two weeks, up to a maximum of two times the age of 68. I know that in practice it will pose many practical challenges, but it is our duty as legislator to create those legal conditions, and then the operational actors will make the best possible application.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u65	Mr. Speaker! First of all, I would like to thank both the Government and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for their speedy work. I have no comment to make on the basis of the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, but I am sure that we are still facing the most difficult decisions, the serious situation seems to be. The most important thing is that we put health care and the safety of the sick and the people first and then everything else afterwards we do as well as we can. Mr President! It reminds me of 1991. At that time, the depression was plunged at a fairly rapid pace and there was no way to estimate how deep it was going to be. There was also a face-to-face with such matters as at present, apart from the fact that there was no public health or disease at the time, but there was a different kind of financial distress that struck. There was a banking crisis and the economic crisis in many ways. It was then, among other things, that Prime Minister Aho asked the Bank of Finland’s bank manager, Kalevi Sorsa, to negotiate and conduct the social contract negotiations. Even now — when the Prime Minister is here — I ask you to dig up this Sorsa social pact from the autumn of 91 C.E. Unfortunately, the opposition of the two trade unions fell, but it provides a good basis for what could now be done to safeguard the economic situation and the business environment. For example, Lauri Ihalainen could be the kind of person who could successfully conduct such negotiations in this context. This would share responsibility for this serious situation affecting businesses, workers and public finances across the board. So it didn't work out then, and it had bad consequences. After that, a complete bank crisis and also the situation of sovereign debt being at the very edge of the knife. There is no similar situation in this respect for banks and there is a possibility of government debt, but there is probably a very deep crisis facing both public finances and, above all, the business, employment and employment sectors. That is why measures are needed to resolve it. 91 a banking support system was introduced by a unanimous decision of Parliament. It was then briefly examined whether, for example, direct funding for businesses could be provided through the Development Fund. It fell to the fact that the Development Regional Fund did not have a national area of activity but was only in Eastern and Northern Finland and no similar system was found at the time, and there was no alternative available except bank support. Bank support then had to be granted from the State’s tax resources of about FIM 40 billion. My position was to take shares from commercial banks in exchange for bank support, but this was not the case, and so it remained. Norway did this, and when you took some shares, then at a good time you sold them away and I guess you did a little account with it. That's not what happened. If it is possible now, Prime Minister, please see if there is one way to provide such support to companies or banks — perhaps not to banks — whether shares could be taken over by the State to Vake or otherwise, which would then be sold out later and which would bring back the investments that will come under the responsibility of the State. Mr President! Companies currently have a lay-off model. It is a good thing that the Ay movement and employers agree today that it will be further improved. That would be one of the key elements of the social pact. Funding must be organised in such a way that healthy businesses do not fall and jobs do not disappear as the liquidity situation deteriorates. We're gonna have to postpone the tax payments. Banks must be obliged to provide funding so that healthy businesses and jobs can be safeguarded. Of course, it is worth trying to secure companies that go a little less well, but competition neutrality does require that they do not start to support those that are quite bankrupt. There could be a continuation of pension contributions, but, of course, if workers are laid off, there will also be no social security contributions and pension contributions. Mr President! These may be the means to move forward. I would also like to point out that we also have one major threat, and this is a possible wave from Italy, but also from France, Spain and other large euro countries, which could wipe the whole of the euro area so seriously that the whole euro could collapse in this context. An expert in the committee already thought so. All countries have a strong sense of selfishness at the moment to save themselves from their own problems, and then solidarity with other countries is not the first thing to do. The European Stability Mechanism has a budget of EUR 500 billion, 90 billion of which has been spent, but that EUR 410 billion is not enough to save these systems. We will be asked for more money there. Are we prepared to save banks and jobs in Italy and other countries but not save their own? This is going to be serious, very serious. In addition, we are faced with the state of our own public finances. Debt is now going to rise very much. What effect will it have on interest rates and Finland’s creditworthiness in the future? If the creditworthiness of these amounts of debt deteriorates and interest rates rise, then we are in great trouble. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u66	Mr President! There has been a long, good debate on the stand-by law here, and it has been a pleasure all day long to see that there is agreement in this Parliament. There are two things to be quoted about this global climate: First of all, Finland is reacting to this with a very fast schedule, a very significant large package of laws is being brought in. I very much appreciate the fact that Prime Minister Sanna Marin is still here at the very end of this debate, which shows that the government's head is taking this situation seriously and also this debate, and if anyone has carried a great deal of burden that this package is here at our disposal. I am well aware that this has been done not only night by night, but by little hours, and it has been possible to sleep short nights on the part of the members of the Government. The entire government's agenda has been rough on this. Another great thank you, which has already been mentioned many times today: it is above all great for Parliament that the chairman of the Constitutional Committee is also here at the end of the day, and thank you very much for his efforts. The committee as a whole, you have done a tremendous job, and it has also been pointed out here that we all know that the committee advisers who have done these reports here for us, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. So this has been a great effort, and we all know how to appreciate it. Another point that is important to be quoted here is that the spirit of the Winter War has now been mentioned. All right, let's talk about the spirit of the Winter War. After all, it was a great nation-building moment when a very divided country, a country that went through a long difficult process, if we left the process of independence and civil war that did not even accept the flag — the nation’s symbol had not been accepted before that winter war as a common symbol — despite the difficult situation that had been divided, was able to gather itself when the nation’s destiny was under test. Now, for the second time, we are at least at the level of the strength of the legislation in the situation where we are talking about the fate of the nation. When we are in this position, it has been great to listen to speeches from the side of this House, in which we are now breathing in the same direction. Now we are in the same trench, so to speak, when these military comparisons are made. That enemy is equally submissive, one can say, in this respect, an issue that is difficult to control when we do not understand all the dimensions of the phenomenon. It is important for us to be able to work together here both at parliamentary level — from opposition to government parties — and also at national level. It must be appreciated that the social partners have also been able to find a consensus, a large package of difficult solutions, and compromises have enabled us to work together on a temporary solution. We have to understand this now. We are in exceptional circumstances, and these are unusual solutions. This is not the kind of legislation that is permanent. Let's not be a new normal in this creation. So let us simply respond to this critical situation, and that is the basis on which this legislation will be made and labour market solutions will be made. We need to understand this. It's a valuable thing. It is great that the government is also responding to the economic crisis with a package of €5 billion. How it is directed, it will probably have to be dealt with several times here, but I agree with the view which has certainly been expressed in many words to avoid dismissals. We would avoid dismissals, it is understood that we are only now living in a critical situation. If you are forced to reduce your activities, as you are forced to reduce your economic activities when there is no demand when you are in this critical setting, then you go through layoffs. If, then, society supports it, it is understandable that it is supported. But then we have a large number of extremely small companies, 180,000 sole entrepreneurs. They don't have layoffs, they don't have layoffs. They're losing their livelihood. We face, we see these fates around us, people working on the freelance side from artists to hairdressers, taxi drivers, anything — a large crowd. We have an enormous number of 180,000 sole entrepreneurs in this kingdom. It's a large group of people who are practically all wounded now. How do we limit this support system to the fact that they too have a chance of making a living and a chance to continue living — this is the big, big challenge that we all have to solve. Mr President! I myself wanted to bring up one special group of Finns for this debate. I have made a little habit of it, also because of my own age, also underscores the position of the elderly in this matter. Well, that's exceptional now, isn't it? For the elderly, this crisis is exceptional at all levels. It is both a critical situation on the economic side, but above all it is on the health side. Representative Aki Lindén here just shared the figures on how the risks increase through ageing. There are many reasons why they are growing through its ageing, but they are growing so violently, really so fiercely, that it has now been necessary to take this measure so that, as the Government is now trying to achieve in these measures, people over 70 years of age are living under conditions such as quarantine. Now there are difficulties and misunderstandings. A huge number of messages have come out, Prime Minister, that people do not quite understand what is here, now that we are going to punish them once more. It does not help us to explain that 20 % of those over 80 years of age have died in Italy and China, of those who have contracted the coronavirus, and of those between 70 and 80 years of age 10 %. It's such a big risk out there. When there are so many people on home care who meet only occasionally with a carer, a carer, and so on, we need to be able to properly resource that elderly people feel that they are now being protected. Home care has to work, it has to work. You also have to be able to visit the store and you have to be able to get the medicine. When the elderly say that they can even go out outdoors, you have to say, "Yes." Now, please, go outside and outdoors, because it is the energy - giving thing of life to keep yourself alive in that way. Nevertheless, it is worth avoiding physical contact with people now, because these risks of infection are so uncontrolled. President! Let me get this straight. There's a seven-minute deadline here. [PresidentMattiVanhanen : Yes. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u69	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u70	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u71	Now you can say it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u72	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a proper, good job. This report should now be adopted unanimously so that the government can continue its important work on this issue. In this Chamber, there must be only the Finnish Party in this matter, which is now uncompromisingly defending the Finnish process of life. We need a lot of spine from the citizens now, and I know we'll find it. It is also good that the regulation on the introduction of the Emergency Act will be in force for less than a month at this stage. In a few weeks, we'll be smarter in many respects. These are patterns we don't know about. Let us then decide on the follow-up. The virus does not recognise borders, so international cooperation is also needed to win this battle. In matters related to vaccinations and medical treatment, it is important that Finland participates in the exchange of information and at the same time supports domestic science and industry in finding solutions. The Finns are now facing a new situation completely, and it requires adaptation in many ways, as the so-called normal life now changes on a fixed-term basis. But health first, every life is important. It is the most important message of Parliament's decision. Mr President! Preventing the spread of the virus also has an impact on economic activity. Finland's gross domestic product will fall, as announced today by the Bank of Finland. Citizens will reduce their purchases and business investment will be delayed when there will be questions in the future. The impact is on services and industry. For many, jobs and incomes are now at risk. This situation requires vigorous, timely measures. There have already been positive signals from the labour market. Solutions have been sought and found. The direct impact of restrictions on mobility and assembly on the economy is now temporary, but longer-term effects will follow if companies or banks encounter difficulties. This can lead to bankruptcies, unemployment and lost well-being. When the situation is over, this post-treatment will last a long time. For example, there are currently countries in the euro area whose economic platform is seriously destabilising as a result of this epidemic. Mr President! Their own figures are important issues related to security of supply. Many things that seem obvious to us now need to be ensured. Of course, it should be stressed that there is currently no shortage of different materials and there is a shortage of food, with the exception of the component effects already mentioned for companies that are already stopping factories. But now we also need to look at things with a longer look at them. What will Finland warm up with next winter? In fact, decisions on the adequacy of domestic heating fuels for next winter will have to be taken over the next few weeks in order for contractors to have sufficient capacity to respond to this changed situation in the summer to come. I very much appreciate that the Prime Minister is here, and let's say that as a single observation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u73	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u74	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u75	Mr President! I would also like to begin by thanking all the representatives for the good and very constructive speeches that have been made today. I believe that it alone creates faith and hope in solving this acute crisis. Like the rest of Europe, Finland is now in exceptional circumstances. The infectious disease that spreads throughout the world is also a test of our social order. Now it is important to focus on stopping the acute disease. That is why we are also here in Parliament dealing with the exceptional introduction of the Emergency Response Act, and I believe that its adoption is justified. However, after an acute situation, we need to consider how we have organised our society whether we have taken diseases such as corona seriously enough to spread into global pandemics. Mr President! When we adopt the Emergency Act, we accept the centralisation of power to the Government and we have to prioritise decision-making at all levels from here in Parliament to every municipality. Despite this, it is important that we adhere to certain social fundamentals, regardless of exceptional circumstances. Every Finnish citizen has the right to receive treatment corresponding to his or her health. We have thousands of people today who, for reasons other than coronavirus, are in need of health care. Exceptional or not, people undergoing cancer treatments must be treated and the operating rooms must be able to remain functional. Mr President! I also want to look ahead. On Friday, we are going to have additional government support to enable businesses and entrepreneurs to overcome the crisis without bankruptcy. Hundreds and thousands of people are at stake for jobs and livelihoods. Several entrepreneurs have approached in the past week and have signalled a great deal of concern about the company’s ability to pay. Families with children are also concerned about how to manage the mortgage, and young people in temporary employment take care of their future when the employer announces that the employment relationship will end and there are currently few vacancies available. The human emergency will be severe, and I hope that we here in Parliament will listen to Finns in difficult situations across the country with a sensitive ear. Now it is our job to find tools to respond to people’s distress. Now is not the place to crumb the stone legs of society. There is no reason to undermine the minimum provisions on working conditions beyond the agreement of the social partners. Let us therefore work in a good parliamentary spirit to survive the Finnish society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u76	Mr President! Indeed, we are currently living in an exceptional time here in Finland and in the world. In recent times we have been able to see very well how vulnerable our society is in the face of natural forces or laws, and we do not really know what the coming weeks and months will bring. However, safeguarding human health and the lives of people is the most important thing. I just read the latest news from Eksote, South Karelia Social and Health District. It was said that it is clear that there is a need to prepare for a major epidemic, and there is talk of large numbers. Exote will survive if the peak of disease can be lowered. There are currently several corona patients or suspects in the hospital, and the greetings were that it is important that people, especially those over 70 years of age, move as little as possible among other people. However, I personally hope that Finns will move in that Finnish nature and enjoy the outdoor air as well. You don't have to be in big groups, but you don't have to be alone or in pairs. In this global preparedness and response to the spread of the corona epidemic, I believe that the Finnish Government has acted in a timely and determined manner. For the first time in a peace period, Finland will introduce the Emergency Act and the powers provided for therein. It is certainly not easy to make these very serious decisions, but it is better to react sooner and more than too late and less. It is good that these reports from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs are unanimous. Thank you to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also to the President-in-Office when he is here. In this exceptional situation, these reports must be unanimous. This is not a political issue, but a very big issue affecting the health of our citizens and the functioning of our society. At the latest, our society needs consensus, support and trust, because we are now making very big decisions that affect the daily lives and movements of our citizens. I hope that these decisions will also be unique and unique, and I hope that we will no longer have to deal with these issues in this Chamber in the future and that we will not have to take such decisions in the future. Interest now has an impact on the lives of each of us, and the effects of the interest rate will be visible in our society for a long time to come. There will certainly be lasting effects, and they will also be visible for a long time. There is also a need for faith and vision for the future and for confidence that better times will come. In particular, health care staff are very tight now and in the future, and they are also under great pressure. Similarly, the impact on business and business will be very great, you can only read the news about Finland and the world constantly, how companies are going to go. Here, too, I would like to thank not only the government but also the whole Finnish society for their attitude towards this exceptionally difficult situation. We're in a boat together. State, municipalities, educational institutions, schools, businesses, different communities, organisations, sports and sports clubs, cultural organisations — in fact all of us Finns are in the same boat and situation. I have also followed the pages of various organisations online, and it has been very pleasant to read how organisations have responded to this situation and how they communicate it to their members and wish for patience and also to follow the calls and decisions that we make in this Chamber and what instructions the government and the Government have already given. It is very nice to see how all Finns now take this difficult situation seriously. Sharing correct and timely information is also very important. Citizens look forward to and keep an eye on what is happening and what information is being given to them. In fact, for this information, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the entire government very much for providing this information in a timely manner, almost daily. I hope that this communication will continue in the coming days and weeks. People respect it, and I believe that they also appreciate sharing that knowledge with them. I believe that the government's so-called crisis package for the industry, which is coming to us in Parliament this week, will really be needed. Based on the messages from industry, businesses, they expect it very much and they need help. Above all, I would say that people now — Finns and why not Europeans and people all over the world
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u77	Mr President! The government has made tough decisions, hard decisions on the health of the disadvantaged. However, it is the personal activities of each of us that are crucial to the spread of the virus. This is particularly important but also difficult to understand. Personally, I'm not very worried about my own health. I'll do my best to avoid the virus. As an optimist, I trust that if I become infected, I will suffer from a mild disease, such as much of the infected. Instead, I constantly feel a bad conscience when I have had to move around places where other people also visit me. What if I carry the virus with me and infect another person who will not survive this disease? The behaviour of all of us directly affects how long this exceptional situation will last. Even though we're already annoyed, we're just getting started. It is essential that we avoid unnecessary social contacts and wash our hands. Mr President! It's an emergency. Fortunately, in my own country, Kainuu has not yet identified any cases of infectious disease. However, Kainuu people have been tested, and I would like to thank the staff of Kainuu social services for their responsible work. Do and act in accordance with the instructions of the authorities so that cases of infectious disease can be kept to a minimum. Follow the instructions given, even though they may sometimes seem unreasonable and contrary to our sense of justice. Anger is a small price to pay if it can save one person's life.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u78	Mr President! Exceptional circumstances have been identified in the country due to the corona virus epidemic, which is a prerequisite for the introduction of the powers of the Emergency Act. The current Act on Preparedness or the previous Act on Preparedness has never been applied before. The powers extend to social and health care, schools, day-care centres, restaurants, accommodation, gatherings, ships, train travel, public local transport and air transport. Billions of debt and large-scale support measures will have to be introduced. There is likely to be a long - term recession, with effects that will be felt several years from now. The social situation in Finland is also extremely serious. Mr President! It is now of paramount importance that the livelihoods and business activities of our country are safeguarded. Without them, the whole of Finland will stop and unemployment hatches will have unprecedented numbers of people. The economy of many workers is in trouble, many have loans and debts. Households are unable to cope with regular payments, and all acute and extra expenditure will have to be reduced, which is reflected in the health of people. Mr President! The opportunities for entrepreneurs to receive compensation in this situation, when trade is not done and there is no income, are questionable. In principle, Kela may receive income support, but it is not self-evident but problematic. An entrepreneur will not be unemployed until he has finished his business. Only then will he be eligible for unemployment benefit. There is an entrepreneur's unemployment fund, but it has few members, and I understand that compensation also requires the enterprise to cease. It is for good reason to say that it is not worth stopping because of this crisis, because one day it will pass. If entrepreneurs stop now, not everyone will start a new business later, and that is a bad and expensive thing for society. The current crisis came suddenly and has a total effect. Now we have to find some sort of solution, such as the emergency law, so that entrepreneurs receive income support. A solution so simple that business operations do not need to be stopped but receive support for their necessary expenditure. Has this matter, Mr. Government, been your agent, and if so, where is it going? Here again, there is not a day to lose. I would also like to ask what kind of companies are being targeted at the multi-billion-dollar support package envisaged by the government? Are SMEs also involved in these billions? Finally, I would like to say that we too will be able to overcome this difficult and serious issue. Now if you ever need that famous winter war spirit. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u79	Ärade talman, Mr President! It's really painful when you can't visit your 91-year-old mother who's in a service home, a nursing home, and who doesn't understand or remember where she is or why her loved ones can't. I am sure I share with a lot of people such feelings, but at the same time, of course, we know that this is necessary in order not to infect these people, who are already in a vulnerable position, with this detestable disease, which, of course, can end very badly, not only for my own mother, but also for other customers in her nursing home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u80	Mr President! I have been asked many times what the excluded person really looks like, how the exclusion is done. I do not know about them, but I do know where exclusion begins. Because it starts where dreams disappear. The effects of the Korona virus will extend far and have demonstrated the vulnerability of our society, as well as of all mankind. You cannot even imagine what would have happened if it had been an even more serious disease than the corona. I've started my own business in 92. It was established directly in the eye of a hurricane, and I can tell you that the way things were then was quite brutal and in many ways brutal. Well, more than ten years after that, in police work, I faced growingly worrying problems among young people. There were substance abuse problems, runaways, school attendance problems, mental health problems. A common feature of these symptoms was that they were children of the Depression. The causes of the symptoms were very obvious. Today’s entrepreneurs look forward to the effects of the cold corona virus. The pain is hard, and it's real. The most stopping cases are those second generation entrepreneurs who were children at the time of this great recession in the 1990s. Their families lost their livelihoods, lost their possessions, took their homes, and still brought down huge, suffocating debts. Those children grew up in an endless nightmare with different names: depression, devaluation, suicide, bankruptcy, and so on. Those days have left them with really deep scars. Now many of them are themselves a young entrepreneur, and all of a sudden they are on the verge of a similar nightmare, just as they have come to balance with it: Everything threatens to go. History repeats itself again. Doesn't this ever stop? Entrepreneurs and businesses are the resource that keeps Finland up, which lifts its nose to the surface and keeps the skis on track. We must ensure that profitable, employable, tax-paying companies do not have to sacrifice themselves for all of us in the face of the interest rate. This is not a matter of opposition or government, it is a matter of Oy Suomi Ab, and it concerns all of us, the whole Parliament. The state, civil servants and agencies must show flexibility and the ability to look for new ways of doing things. However, I have received a message, especially from restaurant and event entrepreneurs, that it is the state that has shown confusing inflexibility in this situation. This cannot be the case. It is precisely the state that must set an example in this matter, to show how to get out of the swamp, to help it instead of making it more difficult. As Aristotle has also said, the state exists for a good life so that the individual can develop himself. In other words, the state exists for the good life of man. That is something we must now understand and remember. As far as business is concerned, we have already seen some excellent examples of how this completely exceptional situation has been addressed and measures taken. Rental cars have been made available to health care staff free of charge, rentals have been left unclaimed by tenants. But there are a lot of companies that are unable to participate in this kind of solidarity, for all time, energy and resources are consumed in a fierce struggle for survival. Mr President! The virus will be here for a long time. The battle has just begun. We must learn from past crises and not let the same things happen. While problems may seem enormous, we need to make sure that we do not lose our hunger for life, our passion, each other. Make sure that today’s children do not develop symptoms within ten years of their insecurity. At least from the past we can learn that there are always ways to survive, ways to get along. We must ensure that Finland is, and will continue to be, a country in which dreams carry. That is why I support the introduction of the regulation under discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u81	Mr President! We are currently living in a false sense of security with regard to the spread of the corona virus. Because of the government's policy, we lost even the random rate of infection, and we cannot therefore know where the infection really is going. The THL has stated that the daily figure of 359 for today may actually be between 20 and 30 times higher. That would mean 10770 sick people who are all potential infectors in the midst of us. The Government has not yet spoken in the tone that Article 118 of the Emergency Act restrictions on movement and residence would be introduced to protect the population. However, this situation may soon be ahead of us, and that is why we now need to set out in advance when this situation will occur and how it will be implemented. Mr President! I have been concerned about how many calls the elderly at risk move around malls and leisure places, regardless of the serious virus that you can get at any moment from any surface you put your hands on. On the other hand, I get messages from whatsapp groups from kids who go out and party at clubs. We must face reality as it is. Unfortunately, as long as it is possible, people will act irresponsibly. Fortunately, the government has now decided to increase the number of tests, but we have already lost a real picture of the situation. In order to prevent our health care from collapsing, we must avoid the situation in Italy — and soon we can even talk about avoiding the situation in Sweden. That is why we need to start seriously talking about preparing for the introduction of binding restrictions on movement and residence to protect the population and to provide sufficient staff to monitor such conditions. These plans must be presented to the opposition. More crisis countries have already imposed a ban on movement in Europe. Only by preventing the disease from getting out of hand will we be able to shorten the duration of exceptional circumstances. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u82	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. The introduction of the Emergency Act and its powers under discussion is an exceptional measure in the history of Finland. This is a powerful but the right thing to do to be introduced by now at the latest. Health is the most important thing. It is important to slow down the progression of the disease in Finland by the means available. It has also been great to see Parliament unanimously. In this package of the Emergency Act, attention is given to the activities of social welfare and health care. In addition to health effects, the economic impact will be considerable. When both the demand and supply laws of companies stall badly and at the same time, the problem is acute and serious. It is particularly important to support entrepreneurs in order to keep their businesses alive in falling demand, capable businesses in a situation where cash flow is poking. Various economic measures have been taken. These activities include the Bank of Finland, the Financial Supervisory Authority and the Government of Finland with their recovery package. Many colleagues have spoken with merit about the position of entrepreneurs and households in this difficult situation. Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Looking forward to this situation right now, I would like to draw particular attention to one issue and that is the need for a realistic and up-to-date picture of what is happening in the financial markets. I am concerned about the possible shock in the financial markets. For example, with regard to the operations of the Federal Reserve, last week the Federal Reserve FED opened a liquidity package of some $1,500 billion, on Sunday a purchase programme of $700 billion was announced and interest rates were lowered back to zero, and yet the market has been in considerable turmoil. In the past, years before this corona virus pandemic, monetary policy measures have been very exceptional and the economy has been driven into a strange situation with zero interest rates and thousands of billions of virtual central bank funding. It is therefore in no way excluded that exceptional measures and reactions will occur in the financial markets. These may affect the loan markets, short money markets, different resolution mechanisms, including the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), and possible, for example, government commitments, guarantees and so on. These effects can still rumble across societies. Therefore, these signals must now be followed carefully and without prejudice and contingency plans must be in place and updated.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u83	Mr President! On my own behalf and on behalf of the committee, I would also like to thank the members of the committee for the constructive spirit in which this debate took place, and the committee proved to have a great deal of pressure tolerance, that is, even though the window of time was small, it was still very well done, so to speak. Here are a few questions that have come in the course of this evening: Mr Vehviläinen asked how the process, if it were decided to continue to exercise these powers, would go. Article 8 of the Emergency Act It assumes that the process is, in fact, exactly the same as we have now dealt with, i.e. that, in the event of further exceptional circumstances, the Government regulation may provide for the continuation of the application of Part II of the acquis — the so-called extension regulation — and such a regulation may be adopted for a limited period of no more than six months at a time, and the extension regulation must be submitted to Parliament immediately, and Parliament will decide whether it will be allowed to remain in force or whether it will be partially or completely repealed. It will come to us through the Chamber for evaluation in the Constitutional Committee and then we will hear experts again, and then perhaps we will get through with a shorter report than this first time, and then back here for the plenary. Mr Berg then asked how, now that this Article 95(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was repealed, the question was raised here. I had a discussion with Prime Minister Marin before he left this Chamber, and I remained in the impression that this is now going to be re-prepared as the Constitutional Committee notes that it also activates Articles 98 to 101, so that the protection of workers will also be taken into account in this proposal. For example, if this had been accepted, it would have been unclear when a person would not have been obliged to take part in the duty to work because these articles were not activated in this respect. Thank you for my part for this good debate!
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u84	Mr President! It is important to ensure that the dangers and threats posed by this corona virus can be combated quickly and effectively, that, following this good report and Parliament's decisions, we are able to act effectively in this country. I just read the news on the Ministry of Finance's website that the Department of Finance has contacted municipalities and active cooperation between municipalities and ministries is happening all the time and solutions to serious questions raised by municipalities are being sought together at different levels of government. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, that the Finnish administration is working, and we must insist on this, that we are able to deal with all the situations together — whether the problem of the state or the municipality is the problem, yet the problem of Finnish society — so that at different levels we are able to work together and solve the problems. According to Professor Olli Vapalahti — he is a microbiology specialist, a top physician, a doctor — in today's television broadcast, against this virus there is already a degree of inhibitory medication or this kind of relief medication already found, and more information is constantly coming. At the end of the day, however, the situation is in no way hopeless; even in this short period of time, medicine has already been able to react very well, and we are making good progress in the world, and I firmly believe that there is currently a huge amount of good pharmaceutical research in the world, such as the United States, China, the various countries of Europe. I am confident that within a year or even a shorter period of time there will be a good medication for this disease, which will be able to relieve the pain of the affected people and help them to cope with this serious disease. But as I said in my previous speech, Mr President, once this opposition has been overcome, the Finnish Parliament and all Finns will then have the right time to stop and think about how we will act in the face of the next threat – whatever it is – we do not know because the damage does not come around the neck of the clock, as old folk wisdom says. We must ensure that this whole country is kept inhabited and viable, we must ensure that food production and agriculture are well-being, because in the event of a crisis, when borders are closed — as is currently the case between European countries — we must ensure that our citizens have adequate good domestic food under all conditions. The speeches on security of supply must not just be solemn speeches; it must be an everyday policy and, ladies and gentlemen, we are all responsible for this. There cannot be a situation in which, in good times, we are being overly serious about things and then it is such a crisis day, as we have seen in Parliament today — the Constitutional Committee sat late last night and the same was the case at night. In other words, we can respond to the crisis, but it is a matter of preparation. It's much more important. We can and must react to the crisis, but we must be prepared to keep it in advance, and that is where good management of food production and agriculture is very important, because when people are given good food, their disease-resistance will be at a completely different level if there are difficulties in that regard. This is where we have to learn lesson number one. The second, of course, is energy supply. The situation of domestic self-sufficiency in this matter is unacceptable, and the recent energy debate has caused me to have a slight blood pressure on what happens to this beloved country when we drive our own energy raw materials down and then we are increasingly dependent on imported energy. We have a good lesson for today, as I said just now, that when borders are closed, what will happen to us? When there is an emergency, then there may be no help but your own, and that is always the best help. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that domestic energy is produced as far as possible in Finland. It's the life insurance policy that's going to happen on the day we're facing some kind of crisis and it's 30 degrees below zero. That's when we're running out of jokes if these systems aren't in order. In electricity generation, for example, we rely entirely on imported electricity. Our own electrical energy is far from enough, but on the worst days 30 per cent, at the worst moments, as much as 40 per cent of electricity will have to be brought to Finland, and at the moment when this is happening and it is a crisis, we are completely dependent on the outside countries, our neighbours, and I do not think that this is a credit to a northern country such as Finland. In other words, when we are discussing energy policy here, this day is worth the attention of all the representatives, otherwise we are on very weak ice, because, as I said, the damage does not come around the neck of the clock, but it is wise to prepare, and the rational management of our own energy policy is best prepared. Thirdly, this balanced development of society: the fact that Finland is kept as a whole inhabited is a huge resource for us and also a security of supply factor. Then we will have different opportunities in different parts of the country to take good care of this people. It is not enough that Helsinki is doing well, or it is not enough that the Utsjoki is doing well, but that all of us should be doing well, and that is what we need the work of every municipality, every citizen. This should now be borne in mind that when the next crisis comes, we should not cry with salty tears here in the speaker's room in Parliament, that why this happened. A wise man can be prepared. I think it's worth remembering this day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u85	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u86	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u87	Mr President! Mr Hoskonen spoke on the subject of energy security.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u89	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u90	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u92	The President has no right to limit the speeches made by the representatives, and the speech that we have just made was entirely on schedule, but when I see that this is the second and partly the third round: The regulation will enter into force only after a decision has been taken by Parliament and I have been able to sign the Parliament's reply. This Regulation does not exist before that date.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u93	Mr President! I shall now take the floor. — Here I heard someone say that at the time of the recession in the early 1990s, companies were going bankrupt. This certainly did not happen. We were then in a serious situation, in which we are now, because the money market had been liberalised uncontrollably at the end of the 1980s, East trade collapsed, public spending increased dramatically, the markka was revalued, bank checks were carried out, currency loans were marketed boldly, and loans in general, futures were built and other dreams of the future that could be bought on the market.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u94	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u95	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u96	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u97	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u98	Mr President, ärade talman! Vi lever i en synnerligen speciell location: undantagsförhållande i vårt land. Under fredstid har aldrig beredskapslagen tinlamats, men vi är där nu. Vi gör allt för att skydda våra invånare från coronavirusets framfart, speciellt äldre personer med grundsjukdomar och personer som arbetar inom viktiga samhällsfunctioner, till exempel inom vården. Hälsan framför allt i exceptionella tider. Det vasentliga nu är att vårt sjukårdssystem klarar av att vårda personal som insjuknat i denna osynliga fara, COVID-19. I oika delar av Finland är spridningen av coronaviruset större, bland you give bull i huvudstadsregionen och Nyland. I andra delar har den lyckligtvis inte annu ett starkt fotfäste. Det vill vi nu på allt stävja.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u99	Mr President! I recognise the need you have expressed not to undertake an analysis of the entire international system, the economic crisis and everyone else, as you said. We have time to return to these issues, and let us really only return to them then. If I say a few teas, and I really just take the tea wall. First of all, when it comes to the introduction of the powers of action laid down in the Emergency Act for the articles defined in that regulation, that is to say, the adoption of it, I would like to say that I am prepared to accept it. This is a direct comment, and I hope that the debate will be brought to an end with a sufficient degree of flexibility that we will indeed be able to achieve the entry into force of the regulation. There's been a lot of consensus, a few discords. Mr Tynkkynen's speech here was broken in the ear when he considered that there has been insufficient and vigorous action in Finland. In my opinion, this has been very effective, very effective in international comparisons, and in this respect, of course, it is worth blowing together in this respect too. Mr Park's speech was a very careful and good analysis of the depth of the crisis in the international economic system and the importance of the stock market collapse. Congressman Kankaanniemi went to talk about the crisis in the early '90s. It would probably be more natural to talk about the financial crisis in 2008. It had the same features as it is right now. From there I would have taken examples of this situation now that there is great concern on the part of the Financial Supervisory Authority that the pension system is now in difficulties when there are problems with solvency — of course there are challenges when stock prices fall dramatically: It is worth remembering that in 2008, 17 billion were lost in one year. The reserve decreased, pension assets decreased by EUR 17 billion, but the long run, 25 years, tells us that the trend has continued to grow strongly, by EUR 8 billion annually, and last year we had a record high growth of EUR 22 billion. The only point I would have analysed more carefully here is that in most, practically all OECD countries, we have statutory pension provision, which is not actually funded through funds, but it is managed in another way, through the distribution system as contributions or through taxes. This funding system is quite unique in Finland in that it is statutory, and it is the largest in the world, and if we compare it to this international situation, then we have no genuine concern about our pension security in this situation, and no rash measures should be taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u100	Mr President! Today has been a long day, and future days will certainly not be shorter than this. I do not wish to prolong this evening any further, but I would nevertheless like to thank Mrs Hosko and the representative. Aittikumpu about important speeches and topics, these security of supply factors. Yes, it is that personal help is the best help. And then let us remember these words that “remember, Miss “lucky, rice-riching independent.” From the rites that are in the provinces we receive this daily bread. Mr President! There were still a few other things I should have said, but I will save these speeches for the next few days. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u101	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here, and it is a pleasure to say that the whole of Parliament seems to agree on the need to introduce a preparedness law, and it will enable us to protect citizens from the corona virus to the best of our ability. I am very pleased that this national and indeed global crisis has helped us Finns to work together. This is the first time that this current form of preparedness law has been introduced, and nothing like it has been adopted since the war, and this time again no decision is taken on a light basis in any way. We have seen the damage caused by the corona virus in China, spreading from there to all continents and to most countries of the world. Today, Italy and Spain are particularly severely affected by the virus, but none of the other countries are safe from it. Mr President! There are also positive signs. China and South Korea, with this prospect, have, or are at least getting control of, the spread of the virus. These two countries have had to resort to strict measures to ensure that citizens are protected. In practice, they've been isolated from each other. The measures have been rigorous, but the results have also been promising. Now most European countries have ended up with similar solutions to restrict people's movement and contacts, including Finland among these countries. Mr President! This is a difficult situation, but hope must by no means be thrown away. As Mr Hoskonen said earlier, the investigation into vaccines and medicines is progressing rapidly. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the same issue as Mr Tynkkynen, namely the need for extensive testing to prevent the development of the corona virus. This is the only way to find corona patients and focus on their treatment. Mr President! To this end, early measures to control the epidemic have proved to be the most effective in the rest of the world, have reduced the number of people affected and have reduced mortality. I therefore very much hope that the means now introduced by the Emergency Act will also help Finland overcome the epidemic and, above all, save lives. However, it is possible and perhaps even likely that more stringent measures will be needed. I therefore call on the government to prepare them already. Mr President! All citizens must also recognise their responsibilities. It is the responsibility of each individual to take the provisions and recommendations made very seriously. They are designed to protect the lives and health of citizens. If this is not done, we cannot achieve our goals either. Although the introduction of the Emergency Act is an exceptional measure, I consider the measures proposed by the Government to be absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u102	Mr President! If ever it is the right time to look at the weak points in society, because such a crisis and exceptional circumstances are clearly revealing them. Some might say that when this crisis is over, it will be discussed, but my observation is that a person forgets the difficult times when they are over. In a fever, you swear that I will certainly put on more clothes so that I will never have to feel this way again, but once you get well, you will again start with too little clothing. The right time to discuss the vulnerability of society revealed by the corona crisis is not only after the crisis, but above all now that the preparedness law is actually activated. We need to start a new kind of strategy work in more areas of society to ensure self-sufficiency, because the corona virus will not be the last pandemic virus, natural disasters will not stop and there will be almost no way to eliminate the possibility of war among mankind. Mr President! First of all, the availability of food must be secured, which in the final games takes place only through its own domestic production. There have been a lot of plans in the EU to concentrate production on places where each product is most efficient to produce, but we need to get rid of this kind of thinking. In the midst of a crisis, the country can only rely on what it has in store for a bad day. Secondly, we need to talk about energy self-sufficiency, which is also not in order. Production chains should also be built in Finland instead of relying on freight routes and social situations in other countries. The digital capabilities of society's activities and the ability of citizens to use them must also be highlighted. The transition to remote education in schools also revealed this vulnerability. Even the best country in the world in education was not ready, but rapid action was started in the race as the corona crisis progressed. After overcoming this crisis, Finland must start this self-sufficiency strategy work immediately, so that the next time the Act on Preparedness is activated, society will take the attacks much better than this time when the Act on Preparedness is now being activated for the first time. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u103	Mr President! I must say that we must now concentrate all our efforts on solving this problem ourselves. It's a big mistake if we don't do anything right now. We do not know enough about this virus, nor can we know enough about whether these measures of ours, which we are doing, are properly dimensioned. Only afterwards can we judge it, including with a critical eye, what was done right, what was wrong. Mr President! Now we need to bring the preparedness law into force in this regard and do what needs to be done to resolve this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-18-ps-27.u104	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 3/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the Regulation should be repealed in part or in full.
