ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u1	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 1 hour is reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u2	Mr President! The Government's proposal to supplement the fourth amending budget is essentially made up of two proposals, the adoption of which was transferred to the supplementary part due to the timetable for preparing the proposals — that is, by the way, a good argument. First of all, the protection police will be given a mandate to conclude a lease on the new building. As a result, no additional money is proposed for this article. The project is included in the Senate investment framework and the rental costs in the JTS decision starting from 24. Secondly, aid of up to EUR 24.7 million is proposed for cargo and passenger shipowners to operate in a situation caused by the corona virus pandemic. For Finland's economy, business transport and passenger transport, it is essential to ensure that sufficient maritime transport capacity is operational in all circumstances. However, the primary objective is the market-based operation of transport and the recovery as a result of the gradual elimination of the situation of interest rate restrictions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u3	Please, representatives, keep a safe distance while you're working in the room.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u4	Mr President! Thank you to the Minister for Finance for presenting this supplement. It may be said that there are indeed two of these measures, which have then been subject to such an extension. But in one of these, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this protection police mandate is being proposed to commit to the Office's headquarters project, as to whether this is a so-called interest-bearing supplementary budget issue in the first place. So would this have been something that could have been handled in the actual budget since the fall? It is certainly a necessary and proper proposal in itself, but it has nevertheless been stressed that these measures are, above all, those specifically related to the management of the interest rate. The second point here is this aid proposed for cargo and passenger shipowners, EUR 24.7 million — which is also very necessary. And of course, as the Minister said, it is a priority that market-based behaviour should recover and passenger transport should return. In particular, between Helsinki and Tallinna, the passenger’s traffic from the river has started, could be said to be considerably But here I would have liked the Minister to make sure that, when the explanatory statement in this paragraph refers to the possibility that EUR 100 000 may not be used and that it could be used to support transport, it is obviously the EUR 100 000 which is intended to cover the costs of clearing up the grant and preparing it. This is all vaguely stated in the explanatory statement of this paragraph, but it has then been made clear that this is what this is all about. It is also mentioned here that, in principle, this aid is for one vessel only for a period of three months, that is to say, it is indeed such temporary aid, and then there is also this regulation for the State aid regulation. These shipowners applying for this aid must be subject to a public service obligation or other operating obligation in respect of the subsidised route, ship or frequency. As stated here in the explanatory statement, this will then be evaluated afterwards. Mr President! It is important for us to be able to ensure that our shipping companies are able to stand up and that we are able to take care of this traffic, which has now proved necessary, for example in the case of freight transport, in the event of an epidemic of interest rates. Of course, it would have hoped that in this context:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u5	Mr President! This supplement is part of the government's fourth amending budget, which we discussed in this Chamber last week. At the time, I quoted Mr Markus Lohea from downtown, who described the activities of Prime Minister Marin’s left-wing government on a tweet: ‘As if I had been shopping with a credit card. Everything good and necessary came in handy. However, the invoice will come later.” 5.5 billion is this amending budget, and with the decisions taken this year, the government of Prime Minister Marin is already taking on almost 20 billion more sovereign debt, and it is only half-way through the year. In fact, almost one third of the expenditure for the whole year is financed by debt. The expenditure items are certainly important and justified, as always, and why would they not be — this government, like its predecessors and successors, will be able to easily demonstrate, without a budget limit, even if double or triplasty-based expenditure targets, such as education, research, social security, health services and infrastructure projects. The distribution of money into different targets is not in itself very difficult and demanding — in fact, the distribution of money is the core political competence of the majority of politicians. When the talk is translated into incomes and even increased incomes, the number of authors is reduced. Mr Essayah went through everything in this motion, and I will take a few comments on what is not here: This is still lacking, Mr President, all the employment measures that have been called for. We expected that, in this supplement, these employment measures would now be linked to this — not linked, not one employment measure. Spolander, Director General of the Ministry of Finance, also stated that ‘the recovery and reconstruction slope must decide on measures which are to be taken within a longer I do not know whether he said this time again about these employment measures that he was waiting for them. I am sure that many pensioners also expected that now the centenary of May Day will come in this supplement, but that too is missing from this performance — it did not. And during Prime Minister Marin's interview with the Prime Minister, he said that the pension increase for pensioners of EUR 100 will not move forward this period. In some way, he went behind this economic situation. However, the Government Programme states that ‘a three-pronged survey will be launched on howto improve the status of the least-favoured persons in the occupational As part of this study, ways of raising occupational pensions below EUR 1400 will be explored.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u6	Mr President! I do not understand how pension matters relate to this amendment to the amending budget.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u11	Mr President! This supplement, which is now being implemented, makes a number of important decisions specifically for Finland's development and employment. In fact, Mr Pierainen highlighted the important steering projects of this package, both in Tampere and Tampere as well as here in the capital region, between Mellunmäki, Tikkurila and Aviapolis. This is precisely about major future commitments in the context of land use, housing and transport agreements. It is now important to mobilise these projects, as we know that these tram projects and other rail projects have many positive effects already at the planning stage. The argument that employment measures are not being carried out here is unequivocally wrong, because, for example, in Tampere, it has been seen that only knowledge of the existence of a ratchet project before construction even started increased housing construction, increased Tampere's attractiveness, increased the number of jobs and increased people's interest and enthusiasm to move to Tampere. This also helped us to reduce the rise in the price of housing, which has been the fastest in Tampere throughout the country, and has been a serious obstacle to moving to Tampere from regions with fewer job vacancies, where there have then been more jobs, sometimes even labour shortages, especially in the expert sectors. This is why projects such as these that develop urban infrastructure and Finland are of enormous importance for employment. They both employ and create vitality in themselves, and also enable more and more people to move in after jobs. In this context, attention should be paid to the fact that we are talking here not only about the steering wheel in Tampere, but also about the possible extension of the steering wheel in the Pirkanmaa region, which will make it easier for us, firstly, that fewer people need their own car every day, and that we may not need two more cars in the family, but also that business trip will go even faster than our own car. And in those areas where it may not be possible to get a steering wheel, it has already been decided to promote local train projects, which once again make it easier for people's daily lives to reconcile work, family and caring for old relatives, for example, and to think about how far they are ready to go to work. This is a very concrete extension of the area in which a person can meaningfully apply for a job and rely on his own everyday life not to get confused. One can be confident that, for example, it is still economically possible to live there, for example, in the area of a less expensive community and still work there in the city, where housing is, unfortunately, a little more expensive. As I said, this will help. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u12	Mr President! This draft amending budget is appropriate in this situation, in which we still have the effects of the corona virus on both the economy and people's lives, and in that respect this is extremely appropriate. I had some time to reflect on Mr Heinonen's speech when he said that this amending budget would have no employment impact. This is a wealth of them, a wealth of significant investments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u21	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u23	Mr President! Today we have read the latest forecast of the Ministry of Finance on the economy of the coming years and on the development of Finland's public finances, and it is clear that, when reading that forecast, Parliament and the government of the country are faced with a terrible task of getting this country's economy and public finances in order, indebtedness to stop and end after this crisis is over. But it is good to remember, Mr President, that even before this crisis, Finland's public finances were vulnerable to this situation, so strongly to take on more debt. This trend had just been brought about after the previous government, indebtedness went in the right direction, i.e. decreased indebtedness, and employment increased sharply, but this government made a significant change of direction in the Government Programme negotiations a year ago. At the time, it was decided to significantly increase public expenditure, it was stated that the aim was to achieve higher employment — but all the means and measures were put into tripartite preparation, which since this year has not been heard or seen at all, not a single employment measure to finance all these new expenditures. However, this is also a good thing to remember. Mr. Speaker! This government's employment policy has given rise to a lot of debate in this Chamber, and I understand that very well. In fact, we asked Mr Haatainen in this Chamber last week that what is the aim of the government's employment policy at the moment? In the past, then, you have stated in the government that you are seeking the 60,000 jobs, of which 30,000 must be in the autumn budget debate. Well, now again in the spring, Prime Minister Marin has referred to this whole employment objective, but now again, after the additional budgetary negotiations, the budgetary bulletin states that the government will set a new, higher employment target in the budget line. Well, you can set a higher employment target, but if you do not have a single method of achieving this employment objective, then it is simply rhetoric. But, Mr President, I would now like to ask Mr Vanhane, the Minister for Finance, when you are sure that you know what the aim of this regulation is, that is to say, what, with the decisions of the autumn budget debate, exactly — how many thousand, how many tens of thousands of jobs — must be achieved. What is the new, higher employment target that the government is going to set, and so how many ways will be left in other preparations? I believe that in this Chamber quite a few other Members of Parliament now want to hear these answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u24	Mr President! I am very pleased that there is also a great deal of action in this proposal to supplement the amending budget that will bring employment and safeguard jobs. Of course, as a Pirkanman and as a Tampere, I cannot help but welcome the fact that the rail investments already mentioned here in our region, both the promotion of the commuter train and the steering wheel, as well as the construction of housing, will receive more state aid. There was new support for building homes, people’s homes, etc. in the Tampere region. When I listened, President, to this somewhat unfortunate criticism from the assembly, I almost hope that at least in Pirkanmaa these statements by Mr Heinonen will not be heard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u25	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u29	Mr President! I am not going to provoke the previous speech — perhaps Mr Heinonen will be able to answer it in his own time — but I would also like to talk about this economic policy. Let me start with the fact that it is all right that these MAL agreements have been concluded,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u32	Mr President! Before coming to this Chamber, Mr Vanhanen, the finance minister, went over the arguments behind this paragraph with the opposition, and I thank him for his good cooperation: although it is probably urgent times, he also found time for dialogue with the opposition. As far as the employment measures mentioned by Mr Pierainen are concerned, which, I would remind you, are also significant in this proposal, the Hetemäki Exit Group mentioned that 240 000 new jobs would actually be needed by the end of 2023, and the government itself has spoken of 60,000. Everyone understands that these are insufficient, but equally everyone understands the numbers of worms in the working life professor Vipriälä's Economic Task Force that Finland is now in debt more than in the 1990s and that employment measures alone are not going to be enough as they are. However, when Mr Heinonen, in his previous speech, raised the issue of Mr Marin’s speech in the interview class, the fact that he did not find it, it is of course not in this supplementary budget, but it is worth listening to Mr Scream in this matter. He said in his speech that the time is not now.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u35	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Harakka for these additions which have now been brought to this point on the transport side — and why not also the recent Finance Minister from Old — and also for the fact that these MAL agreements have been brought into the package. At least we in Pirkanmaa were clearly concerned about, among other things, how these railway projects and tram projects will be implemented and planned, how the state will then commit itself to them. It brought clear concern, and there was a desire for certainty. It is great that this package has been brought in the right direction, thank you for that. Of course, I particularly welcome the commitment and follow-up to our commuter train pilot, i.e. between Tampere and Nokia, and the further development of public transport in the direction of Lempäälä and in the direction of Orivesi, also thanks for that. These are, of course, important for the whole region and for the government as a whole and for Finland as a whole when trying to achieve climate goals, and also important for business and the smooth movement of people in these growth centres. Then, what used to be in that amending budget 4, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the government for the welfare package it has invested in the well-being of children and young people and also in strengthening family services. What is also very important is this increase in starting places for higher education, which I have previously called for, and I would also like to thank you for the fact that it has also come true or is coming about. Good work by the government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u36	Mr President! All the measures proposed in the amending budget and in this supplementary proposal to promote construction and repair work will provide employment and, at the same time, effectively stimulate Finland's economy. These investments have a significant impact, since every job in housing construction and construction of the transport infrastructure creates more jobs as a multiplier effect. In addition to the increase in the interest subsidy mandate, such measures include, for example, an increase in the power of energy efficiency subsidies included in the green resuscitation and increased start-up grants for wood-hulled flats linked to land use, housing and transport contracts. It is really great and positive that the MAL agreements have been renewed in the urban areas of Helsinki, Tampere, Turku and Oulu, and we are also looking forward to the completion of the ongoing MAL negotiations with the new regions. In order for the MAL agreements to be fulfilled, these transport investments in the supplementary part of the amending budget, such as the planning of the Mellunmäki-Tikurila-Aviapolis-Airport express roads, are also urgently needed. In order for municipalities to undertake to build more affordable rental housing that is so desperately needed, these transport investments in MAL contracts, which are included in the draft supplementary budget, are needed, so thank you to the government for this preparation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u37	Irade the Talman! The opposition asked for certain things that are not present in this proposal, including those which they would not wish to see themselves there,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u38	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u40	Mr President! In the context of this fourth amending budget, the government will take a number of measures to safeguard the conditions for economic and employment growth — warm thanks for that. The state has committed itself to significantly financing four urban areas through the agreement on land use, housing and transport between the state and urban areas. This is very justified because the MAL agreement is a significant factor in the vitality of growing urban areas and in the competitiveness of Finland as a whole. In the midst of and after this corona crisis, these agreements will become even more important. In order to support growth and vitality, the State allocates financial resources and support to the MAL region for housing production, the construction of municipal technology, the functioning of transport systems, sustainability and safety, promotion of walking and cycling, support for public transport and infrastructure investments. On the other hand, the municipalities of the Contracting Region participate in the financing of these projects. In accordance with the Government Programme, the contract procedure is now extended to the Jyväskylä, Lahti and Kuopio urban areas. The negotiations on the new MAL regions have started in the course of this week. In this context, I would like to express my concern that the principles of the agreements in the urban areas now involved would not directly apply to the new areas of the agreement. If implemented, this would mean a two-tier MAL contract system in which the objectives of the contract procedure are to build carbon-neutral urban areas, strengthen housing production and increase the share of sustainable mobility in new urban areas could not be achieved as well as those already in place. Mr President! With regard to Jyväskylä, Lahti and Kuopio urban areas, it is justified that new MAL contract regions are also economically invested in the same proportion and principles according to population. The government has done extremely valuable and good work to bring our country on its feet, both economically and socially. With this in mind, it is justified that this work should be carried out on a genuine, national and geographical level, so that work can also be carried out in these new areas of the agreement. In other words, I think it is very important that the state should be prepared to contribute to the adequate financing of the measures to be agreed in the ongoing negotiations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u41	Mr President! This proposal, in addition to the State's fourth supplementary budget, must be accompanied in particular by the funding defined for the planning of the Vantaa Ratika and thank you for it, which was agreed in its own right in the context of the negotiations on the MAL agreement. Otherwise, there were funding items that are part of this MAL package and of course form part of this amending budget, but would certainly have come to Parliament at some other stage and have been largely prepared for them in the government budget plan. This is the name the Vantaa Ratikka can use here, even though it is there that Melunmäki is involved, so even if this goes to Helsinki and Helsinki participates in that small part of it, it mainly goes to Vantaa. Instead, what I followed with little concern was that in the negotiations on the MAL agreement it appeared — even in the light of public information — that the State's will to participate in these heavy rail projects, which benefit Finland as a whole, would be diminishing, i.e. a relative share of how the State would participate in this. In the past, when it has been customary that the central government share has been 70 per cent, for example, for the Espoo urban track, which is a prerequisite for building a connection that speeds up in the direction of Turku, for example, the central government share remains at 50 per cent. My concern relates to the fact that, when the finances of the municipalities are already tight, even though this year's state will help with these additional expenditures from the acute crisis, in the future the effects of the interest rate will be visible far, many years away. We talk about more than four to five years, and that also requires significant balancing decisions from the municipalities in their own economy. That is why I find it regrettable if this is the tendence that the state considers that the municipalities' shares are being increased. Another point which may not be so much a thank-you, but rather a little amazement: when we are very much praised here for this whole recovery package, the budgetary impact of which, according to the government's own arguments, is about 3.6 million in this amending budget, the Prime Minister has, however, publicly stated that, mainly, these expenditures are only expenditure for acute crisis management. There are, of course, both here, but what is the Minister of Finance's view on this matter: is this now a recovery package, or is this an acute crisis management? I understand that the recommendation of the working group of experts commissioned by the government itself is that when recovery measures are decided, and that size does not go much further than this amending budget, then, in the same context, decisions should be taken on the economic recovery measures which will also provide for:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u42	Mr President! Representative Viitanen here warmly praised the MAL agreements and the forthcoming tram route to Tampere and other revitalising measures aimed specifically at Tampere. Of course, they do, and when they are built, we know that on average they employ nearly twenty people when they are built up with a million, and half of the taxes are returned to the public sector, to the municipality or to the state. This is, in principle, quite the right thing to do when we invest in employment, but of course there is another matter where we invest, namely whether these are fast transport connections, whether they serve the competitiveness and export of the whole country, and whether debt is taken into account — these can always be speculated on. But another thing: when Mr Mäkinen was talking here in his excellent speech, he said that when these MAL negotiations were then extended to Lahti, Jyväskylä and Kuopio, i.e. such key regional centres, it is a good thing, and it is hoped that there will also be enough money from the state to support it. But then I'd pick up a group. As I recall, there are 56 of them, and there are almost a million people living there, and as I was looking at these lists, I think it was completely forgotten from these MAL negotiations. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance when these regional MAL negotiations will start. It's like a three-story group. After all, people must live on every floor in Finland who negotiate with the state that it does not just become an exclusive for some. As far as this employment is concerned, of course, all measures are important to make employment more effective. After all, one of these circuses has to pay, now that money is being distributed in the name of resuscitation and corona to the desired targets of all parties. I would just like to say that it is not a good idea to start talking about employment and unit labour costs and the competitiveness of Finnish industry. After all, the last government did bad things in kiky format and got a lot of crap on the back of its neck, and it must be said that they had a certain meaning for Finland's competitiveness. From 2014 to 2017, unit labour costs decreased by almost 7% compared to developed countries, which built Finland’s competitiveness and boosted employment. But those solutions are not easy. In other words, as Mr Satonen has said here, I must thank the social partners for being able to achieve wage moderation. They were the key to keeping unit labour costs in a moderate fork and improving Finland’s competitiveness. And now that it seems that this period of zero interest rates goes on for years — we do not know how long, of course — and when inflation was negative for a couple of months and inflation does not appear to go there at any rate closer to 2%, wage increases of 3% were made to the local government sector, and they were, in real terms, stimulating wage increases, increased the purchasing power of employees. In other words, these wage solutions, which are extremely important to Finland, must always be mirrored in what is inflation and where
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u43	Mr. Speaker! Quite briefly, I would like to reply to Mr Viitane, who has used his own speech effectively to reproach the opposition. I did not find an answer to this government's employment policy in Mr Viitane's speech, but I believe that the Minister for Finance will respond to this aim. It is good and important that we now finally get a clear answer. A year ago in the autumn, we have put forward measures that estimated that 60,000 people could be employed in Finland. The difference between Mr Viitanen and the coalition and the government is that at least we have a choice, you do not have one either. You have not brought to Parliament a single proposal which in reality will be capable of permanently, sustainably increasing employment. Of course, it is quite true that once the construction cycle has slowed down, certain public infrastructure projects of this kind are justified now. But the idea that, as if with this public revitalization, this employment objective is now being brought to fruition has been seriously distorted. However, I think it is important to try to get rid of this kind of debate — with debt money and then with employment. In other words, we have proposed, for example, a reduction in early childhood education fees, an increase in local reconciliation, a large number of measures. I think it's a representative. It is also worth going over those suggestions. [Quick Five]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u44	Honorable Speaker! There are a few bigger things in this supplement to the additional budget. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there is an item here called "Aids for transport and communication services" which adds approximately 25 million to cargo and passenger shipping. In addition, this item also has national news support of 2.5 million and media support of 5 million. So when these communications subsidies have come in this additional budget itself and the supplement became this passenger ship support, could it still be possible to open up a little more, especially this communication support, how will it be used? Quite a bit of the extra budget itself is dealing with this issue. The second, of course, is the acquisition of new premises by the protection police, which costs around 11 million per year and commits itself to up to 50 years. Of course, you can break that contract at a later stage. But I suppose the starting point is that the agreement is very long, because this is the size of the investment. So it wants to say, in all, a commitment of up to 580 million — about, if I remember correctly. All of this is very interesting because government debt is increasing considerably this year. I think the problem here is that when the expenditure side now rises to 67357 million and then the income side has fallen to about 500 million — that is, the income side is only 48516 million, as forecast for the current year — this adjustment must be quite massive. Then let us go to this magical figure of 240,000 new jobs: it was stated here that in order to stabilise this debt ratio somehow, these 240,000 new jobs must be found in such a way that they do not increase public spending. So there's an additional condition. This makes all of this considerably difficult, so it would be necessary to start thinking carefully about these adjustments as early as next autumn. Of course the opposition gives all the support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u45	Mr President! In a sense, I would say to Mr Multala, who has already left: when he considered that, when the recovery measures and crisis management are baffled, what is the issue with this amending budget, I would be saying a little like that with Mr Viitane, that they are not going to go into a happy mess when this amending budget uses recovery measures for crisis management. That's the whole point, and that's where we're going. Mr Adlercreutz rightly expressed the view that many of the opposition's contributions started to talk about issues that are not included in this amending budget, and that was the subject of a lively debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u48	Now we've got 10 minutes to spare an hour. Three speeches and five minutes for ministers. That's five minutes of conversation at this point.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u49	Mr President! Just briefly, Mr Kiljunen, I referred to Prime Minister Marin's interview hour, in which he pointed out that this crop of May Day is not now being carried out, as it is not. But this supplementary proposal also includes a freak of EUR 581 million, which is built on the city of Carart, as we know. I am sure everyone will be pleased with the importance of what the protection police are doing for us and the work they are doing for us, but perhaps I would like to see further arguments when there is a speech coming to the Minister. However, when this is a 50-year lease and the Senate properties apparently take 12 million euros each year, perhaps a little more justification would I like to see why such a lease is made and so on. However, this is a significant item, although no additional allocation is provided for this item. And then, briefly, I would like to continue with these employment measures. Here, here, here, here, here, here, here, After all, about 40% of all employed people arrive in Helsinki from outside Helsinki, and as we know, there is a huge shortage here, especially in the low-wage sectors. Now that the restaurants have opened up, we need cooks, we need waiters, and there is really a little shortage of everything, so how does this planned congestion charge then increase the willingness of job seekers in low-wage sectors to receive work? There is a lot of talk here about these employment measures and all that, but I do find it particularly dangerous to achieve these objectives and for the economy as a whole that you should pay up to EUR 1000 a year to come to Helsinki to work for it. This cannot by any means be an employment measure. This is completely counterproductive, and I would ask and appeal to the city centre to stand up for you there. Especially with the Greens, you will certainly have to fight in these climate measures, and here you will be on the side of road users and on the side of low-wage sectors and the labour force. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u50	Mr President! Of course, I think it is important and positive in itself that the representatives of the Group of the European People's Party pay attention to my own speech, particularly Mr Marttinen. I do not want this to be prolonged, President, but this is the second week now. I have asked for the aim of the vote, which means that I cannot explain it, Mr Marttine and the partners. At the same time, at the same time, you are strongly critical of debt-taking, while at the same time your committee leader has been proposing hundreds of millions of additional expenditure, even last Christmas, and since then in every amending budget. When this amending budget came out, Petteri Orpo said that this was an irresponsible financial link that Petteri Orpo could not accept. Then we have asked you which of these are your objections — are you opposed to investment in the fairway, to investment in education and training? There's no answer. And when this last package is about EUR 5 billion, President, I am now challenging the Convention that perhaps in the next few days you will be able to tell us, even for a tenth of this EUR 5 billion, what you do not accept, because in your opinion this is an irresponsible financial link — that is to say, 500 million, at least tell us for the sake of this content which you are absolutely unable to accept, so that a little bit can be done about the aim of this vote. With these words, the challenge has actually been thrown into the air for the second week in a row, Mr President. And in advance, I would like to say to Mr Haraka, who will certainly be taking the floor, that I am very pleased with the MAL package in such a general way. And I'm sure he's a representative. What is of interest to Eestimed, too, is that all in all these projects, which are now being built in the context of the MAL agreements and future agreements and the main course of action and all of them, are such that I am quite certain that, apart from being a Pirkanman, I can be happy, and I believe that the whole country will benefit from these investments, which are within them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u51	Chairman! I don't know how much central government finances are different from this kind of personal economy. I'm in debt, too, I've been in debt, but I've got some kind of view of how I'm gonna pay it back. If I didn't have that view of how I'd pay back, I certainly wouldn't have taken the debt, and if the government was in some special position... I think, Mr Viitanen, that the criticisms of the Assembly are more directed at the fact that you have taken up debt with quite a slump and a hand of junk and that it will be paid by someone else in due course, but at the same time you have not told us how you are actually increasing employment. As I said earlier, we go to tough cases, to unit labour costs and to the competitiveness of Finnish industry, because industry is, however, the macro-level one that keeps employment together and the supply chains in fat. And if you do not tell me this and do not agree to be exposed to this debate, then I think that this is a bit like irresponsible debt — responsible debt is an image of how to pay back. That is what our criticism is based on. As such, in this situation, where there is a drop, we understand that we have to take up debt and, of course, it must be done through a state which receives debt at a negative interest rate. In fact, it would even open up a good opportunity for major infrastructure projects, but that is probably not the main topic of this debate. But, personally, we should see employment in the opposite direction, so that we now have sectors where there have been clear, severe lay-off pressures, including lay-offs. And let me take one example of resuscitation, which I think you should have done: When you distribute these billions in this way, you would have put 100 million or 150 million in a car tax discount. We need to see where, by the way, significant imports are taking place in Europe, where people and businesses are looking for cars: Sweden and Germany. And when Germany temporarily reduces VAT from 19 to 16, that means that imports from Germany are increasing. And if that car tax had been reduced, you would have stimulated the car trade and would have been spared redundancies in that sector too. There are many of these examples in the opposition, which means that we do not think that everything you have done is right.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u52	Then Minister Harakka, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u53	Mr President! Firstly, the response to Mrs Vähämäki that a working group has just been set up for this modest media support to consider how it should be divided in such a way that it can respond to this corona crisis, as independently as possible and without interfering with content. However, this supplementary proposal mainly relates to the MAL contracts for these four largest urban areas, where investment in housing and sustainable transport already exceeds EUR 1.3 billion, transport alone already accounts for more than EUR 700 million — and mainly for efficient rail transport. It has a climate impact, but it also has an employment impact, namely where these trams are manufactured. Ask for Kainuu at the Transtech factory. It is, in itself, somewhat contradictory that the opposition has accused us of a waste of state resources, but just now Mr Multala again criticised me for taking too good care of state funds as a negotiator on behalf of the State when these MAL agreements were concluded. Even the mayor of Helsinki would have liked to have received tens of millions more taxpayers' money from other parts of Finland, but fortunately the responsible ones walked over him. MAL is, of course, only one part of this package, a package of climate, recovery and transport investments with three packages: in addition to the MAL contracts, road projects extending to Finland as a whole, including this stimulus package for regional cities, and, thirdly, this industrial infrastructure package, and it is in it that public investment makes private investment possible. If Metsä Group decides to build a bioproduct plant in Kemi, it will
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u54	And Minister Vanhanen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u55	Mr. Speaker! On the question of the building of the protective police officer: First of all, I readily admit that, although this additional budget proposal is in my name, it was prepared and I do not know all the details of it. But the 50-year lease period is, of course, justified by this particular nature. The term ‘special construction’ is used in this proposal,that is to say,constructive solutions which,in normal use of the office,arerequired to Is this budget maintenance or recovery, crisis response or recovery? Both—and. This support for shipping is clearly crisis management. It's about maintaining activity at the moment. In this respect, the additional budget for the whole of last week was almost fifty-fifty. There is a great deal there, for example, to compensate for losses, clean crisis management, as regards support for municipalities, hospital districts, but at the same time a recovery phase has been initiated. Mr Adlercreutz well described the crisis as having to be dealt with in pieces with the right timing. We are now at a stage where maintenance has been done, we are also preparing for the second wave of the corona, but we have also launched recovery measures. Of course, it is important for recovery measures to be carried out — even if, according to some terms, this is the distribution of money there and here, across the kingdom — to be ready for implementation. A good example for Mr Marttinen is the highway 8 at the Eura River. Its planning appropriations were allocated under Minister of Transport Berner, during the previous government, and thanks to the fact that it was sufficiently well-designed, more than 20 million were now made available for this section of the road, which is extremely important for industrial transport along the coast of Western Finland. In the interests of recovery, it is now working in a very timely manner, but its economic benefits to the national economy will come in decades when this has been done. This may be the optimal case for what is at best a stimulus to public targets. Thank you to the opposition for this encouragement for employment measures. They're definitely coming. Economic growth is generated — the classic theory has not changed anything — by productivity and labour supply. The supply of labour is not the problem in this crisis right now, but, of course, we need to reach a brighter time when labour supply is also needed. In fact, last week's additional budget was this opening up of more than 4,000 higher education places to one age group. On the contrary, it is now reducing supply, but it is justified.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u56	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Administrative Committee. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u58	Mr President! Indeed, some 5,000 British citizens and their family members live in Finland, and after Brexit, Britain became a so - called third country and its citizens became third country nationals. The purpose of this proposal is to provide for the implementation of the provisions on the right of residence of persons residing in Finland to continue their stay in Finland. The aim is also to ensure the smooth, transparent and simple procedures required by the divorce agreement for applying for these residence rights. The proposal provides for an obligation for British citizens and their family members living in Finland to apply for a residence status under the divorce agreement. By way of exception, British nationals and their family members who have, before the end of the transitional period, a permanent right of residence and a document proving it. They are not obliged to apply for the replacement of the document in question, but they are also entitled to exchange that certificate with the new residence document, and in that case, once the identity of the applicant has been verified, the criminal record has been examined — if any — and a general security check has been carried out and the current place of stay has been established. Before the right of permanent residence has been acquired, the right of residence may be lost if this temporary stay outside Finland takes too long. In addition, residence must be continuous enough to increase this period of stay in order to obtain the right of permanent residence. Of course, it is also theoretically possible that the right of residence will not be granted, denied or withdrawn for reasons of public policy, public security or public health, but, in the case of British citizens, this is very unlikely. It is estimated that this will entail additional costs for the Finnish Immigration Service of around EUR 520000 and, for example, additional costs of around EUR 60000–90000—depending on the procedure for handling a foreign case and on the application procedure, whether or not the following point can be discussed. But, Mr President, British citizens will continue to be very welcome to live in Finland, and the Brexis in this respect will not be a bogeyman of any kind either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u59	Mr President! Mr Essayah has already gone through this government proposal in his own speech, but a few brief comments on this subject. For both Finland and the EU, the departure of Great Britain is a very unfortunate and unfortunate matter. Great Britain has been a good partner in a number of issues, such as the dismantling of excessive regulation and barriers to trade. Finland should not only adapt to Britain's departure, but the ultimate goal must be the controlled separation of Britain from the EU and the protection of Finland's interests as an EU Member State. Unfortunately, the future is currently completely open to many aspects and creates uncertainty for millions of Europeans. There is not much time left to negotiate the agreement. This work will be difficult, but it is necessary to succeed. Citizens' rights must be a priority in the negotiations: the opportunity for people to live, work, move and train, and also the opportunity for companies to export services and products on both sides. Ensuring the right of residence of British citizens in Finland is also very important. Many of them have lived in Finland for a very long time and feel that they are part of Finnish society, and it is important to cherish this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u60	Mr President! This government's proposal on British citizens' right of residence in Finland is very welcome, and I would have liked to see more than one representative of the government parties present in this Chamber listening to us support this government's proposal. Unfortunately, Brexit has been overshadowed by the covid-19 crisis, but it has not removed the problems associated with the negotiation of this future post-transitional relationship. That representative, Mr Essayah, and Mr Pelkonen, both stressed in their speeches how good bilateral relations between Finland and the United Kingdom are and how we have traditionally been in the same-minded group of countries when things have been agreed within the EU. It must be pointed out that these bilateral relations are commercial relations, that we have very good relations in the scientific community, that student exchanges are active, and that cultural relations are also worth reminding of. Personally, I am concerned about our commercial relations: what happens on 1 January 2021 when Britain is out of everything — when I suspect that the future trade relationship will not be negotiated in less than six months. We have a considerable number of companies operating on the British market, they are etabolized there, and one of my concerns is whether there will be barriers to free trade next year, whether there will be obstacles to the fact that companies will no longer be able to export and import goods or sell services as they have hitherto. As far as our exports of goods are concerned, Great Britain is the seventh largest market in Finland, and it is particularly significant that the forest industry, however, covers one third of this, which means that its future relationship with the commercial side is extremely important. In the same way, it must be borne in mind that, although we are talking here mainly about large companies, when we often export intermediate products, it is also a question of a network of subcontractors, and I am particularly concerned about the future position of these SMEs. Customs duties, customs clearances always make it difficult for small businesses to trade. But all in all, it's good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u61	Mr Estonian, I would like to say that the Council of Presidents has recommended that representatives in their room should be able to listen to the debate if it is not intended to speak. That's why there may not be everyone in this room.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u62	Mr President! The UK's resignation from the European Union is regrettable for both Finland and the whole of Europe. That is a regrettable thing for the United Kingdom itself, too, most likely. Great Britain has been a good partner for Finland in the dismantling of excessive regulation and barriers to trade, among other things. In an increasingly unstable world, a united Europe is a major asset to Finland’s future. Unfortunately, in the course of history, we decision-makers have failed to bring the Union sufficiently close and comprehensible to every human being. The debate on the future of the European Union has intensified into a debate on yes or no, which is unfortunately simplifying the strengths of multidimensional international cooperation. Although there is no point in digging through the past, we Finns must understand that it is no coincidence that the non-part of this yes or no debate also received significant support from certain external parties in the UK. A fragmented Europe serves those to whom a strong Europe is a threat. But look forward. It is easy to support this government proposal. And, as has already been rightly pointed out here, the Assembly considers it important to safeguard the right of British citizens to reside in Finland. Many of them have lived in Finland for a long time and are part of Finnish society. I believe that this path also goes both ways in the negotiations, and I believe that this should be fostered and respected. Mr President! The British divorce negotiations on the European Union have been a challenge as expected. Finland's important objective is to enable Britain to distinguish itself from the European Union and thus to ensure Finland's interests as part of Europe, but, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we decision-makers have failed to bring the European Union close enough to people. That is why I hope that, at the latest, in these divorce negotiations, we will give priority not only to commercial relations but also to the rights of citizens, to the possibility of people living, to work, to move and to train on both sides. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u63	Mr. Speaker! Very good speeches have already been made here, such as the last representatives of Estonia and Kausanto, Essayah, Purra, all on this subject. Of course, it is very important to safeguard the rights of the British people living in Finland and also to safeguard the rights of Finns living in Britain. In fact, this is probably the part of Brexit that's in the best care of all. Instead, it becomes its own challenges, that after this Brexit comes true, it is possible to come from Britain to Finland or from Finland to Britain, because for example, getting a work permit changes in a very fundamental way. But, Mr President, when we are talking about Brexit, I cannot help not referring a little to what Mrs Kausanto has said, that this is probably where Britain is now going to score its own goal, and that is something that has not been seen in a long time. I hope I am wrong, because I am a friend of the British, a student there and also the chairman of the British friendship group here in Parliament. But when you look at where Brexit’s popularity is highest, where Johnson and the Conservatives also had the highest popularity in the last elections or where they won most in relation to previous elections, they were precisely in industrial cities and concentration where there is the greatest risk that if this free trade does not work they will lose their jobs, and I am afraid that there will probably be some social challenges there. As far as this agreement with the European Union is concerned, of course it is important that this agreement should be reached, but of course the agreement must be the same for both. It cannot be that the United Kingdom benefits, for example, by choosing the United States' path of disengagement from these environmental agreements or by substantially different rules of working life from those of the European Union. Of course, the EU negotiators must try to hold on to this. I remember very well that when there was an opportunity to listen to Boris Johnson a little before he became Prime Minister, his message was that Britain has looked too much at Europe and their trade relationship is too strongly focused on Europe and that they should look at the whole world and look for new trading partners there, and he appealed to Asia to grow strongly and to other new markets. That is probably the case, but it is true in this trading world that when you give up the last market, it is extremely difficult to find new ones. That is what Finland experienced when the Soviet Union collapsed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u64	Mr President! Of course, the European Union is at the heart of the issue not only of the value base and its cooperation, but also of the four freedoms, namely the freedom of people, services, goods and capital, and quite often these matters will only materialise when we talk about the freedom of people. This proposal is about 5,000 British people living in Finland. Upon obtaining the right of residence under the divorce agreement, British citizens could also continue to reside in Finland after a transitional period, i.e. after 2020. The right of residence would be granted for a lifetime and would be valid only in Finland. In the same way, it should be thought that Finnish students and persons who have left for Britain will enjoy similar rights there. I believe that Finland should do everything in its power to ensure that our relations with Britain remain good even after the Brexis have been realised. This is where the representative of Estonia said earlier that Britain is the seventh most important exporting country to us, and it has been an important country for us for a long time. It has been the first market to start after the Nordic countries and Russia for many Finnish companies — forest exporters in the first place. It has traditionally been the country with many Finns, and that is how we want to preserve it. As we know, Britain also has good and close relations with the United States. This is a good way to keep in touch with the whole Anglo-speaking world, that we are in good contact with Britain even after Brexit. To this end, although Britain has now left the European Union, they are still involved in other international communities, such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. There the relationship between Finland and Britain is very close and we are often behind the same positions. Mr President! I believe that this is a very important and good bill, and I hope that we will be able to continue this cooperation with Britain and that the Finns will also have similar rights there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u65	Mr President! I believe that the government's proposal is good and well-founded. In practice, it is a question of implementing the EU-British divorce agreement with regard to its most important point, the right of residence for citizens. More specifically, the bill concerns a total of some 5,000 British residents in Finland. Many of them have lived in Finland for a long time and feel that they are part of Finnish society. That is what we should cherish, and that is what the government's proposal is doing. According to the proposal, British citizens who have registered their EU right of residence in Finland should apply for an exchange of their EU right of residence with the right of residence under the divorce agreement. This would make it possible to check that the applicant is entitled to a right of residence under the divorce agreement. A permanent EU right of residence requires a five-year stay in Finland. It would not be necessary for those who hold a certificate of permanent EU right of residence to apply for a right under the withdrawal agreement. However, it would be advisable to apply in order to make it as easy as possible for these people to demonstrate their rights in the future when dealing in Finland and at the external Schengen border. The application would be free of charge for these persons. Upon obtaining the right of residence under the divorce agreement, British citizens could also continue to reside in Finland after a transitional period, i.e. after 2020. With the withdrawal agreement, some 21,000 Finnish citizens living in Britain also have a similar opportunity. Mr President! What we need to worry about in relations between the EU and Britain is an agreement on a new relationship between the EU and Britain. Progress in the negotiations itself has been very slow and the transition period for the UK EU separation will end in just over six months. The work will be difficult, but it is necessary to succeed. It is in the interests of all parties to avoid the so-called hard brexes. It would therefore be a relief to hear the latest news that the negotiations will be intensified. In the negotiations, priority must be given to citizens' rights, to people's ability to live, to work, to move and to train, and also to companies' ability to export services and products on both sides. Finland's financial contribution to these negotiations is also high. Of the value of our country's exports, as much as 4.1 billion go to Great Britain, and British companies employed some 13,000 Finns in 18 C.E. Mr President! As a result of Brexit, we Finns must also assess the priorities of our own EU policy. Now that one country that has been a good partner for us on many issues is out of the negotiating table, we need to strengthen our position by other means. What is essential here is to create new and foster old partnerships with the same-minded Member States.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u66	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 10/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u67	Mr President! The Government proposal proposes to provide for a law on the processing of personal data in the immigration administration. This law replaces, among other things, the former Alien Register Act and the Reception Act. A change in the law is necessary following changes in the requirements of the Personal Data Act, inter alia due to the entry into force of the EU Data Protection Regulation. The amendment is not a matter of minor changes or merely of technical changes, although the basic solutions are intended to remain as unchanged as possible. It has been essential in the legislative amendment to ensure that the authorities have adequate access to information. The registers of authorities contain confidential and sensitive information, but their transfer from one authority to another must be easy and appropriate if necessary. The amendment of the law has been prepared for a long time and, fortunately, it is now at this stage that it can move forward. Parts of the bill have had to be removed from the proposal for automatic individual decisions. As the preparatory work progresses, it has been said that this is such a big matter of principle that it must be dealt with as a self-contained entity, taking into account fundamental rights and the wide-ranging specific legal issues relating to the exercise of public authority. But that work must not go undone in this growing amount of artificial intelligence in society. The Committee on Administrative Affairs also notes that the development of legislation on automatic decision-making is necessary and that the preparation of the matter needs to be speeded up. This law before us can be adopted with good pleasure, and it is good to thank all those involved in the drafting of the law here. Professor Mäenpää also states in his expert opinion that the changes to the rules contained in the draft report have been formulated in a precise manner and that the grounds for the public authorities' rights to information are substantially clarified. They can be seen as correcting the provisions on the right to information which the Constitutional Committee considers to be problematic. However, following the entry into force of the law, it must be monitored in practice. The right of access to information between different authorities must not under any circumstances be jeopardised or cause undue inconvenience or harm.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u68	Mr President! As the previous speaker said, the government's proposal proposes a law on the processing of personal data in the immigration administration, and the amendments to a number of other laws would be of a technical nature. However, we in the Committee on Administration did a very careful job, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, too, as we know, had done a lot of thorough groundwork on the subject, and so, on the basis of extensive expert consultations and opinions, a number of amendments were tabled in the Committee on Administration. On the basis of the expert consultation, proposals for amendments were made for automation, among other things. We felt that automation could not be introduced on the scale set out in the government proposal. Of course, we also said that at a later stage the regulations could bring about a change. We also took the view that the government's proposal on publicity law was quite wide-ranging, and when the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also gave its opinion on this side, the Administrative Committee also made changes to it. All in all, in the context of this law, it must be said that the work of the committees, particularly at this close pace of work, is very important, and I am sure that the chairman of the Administrative Committee will also speak in his own speech about this importance of the work of the Administrative Committee. I would like to thank the government for its excellent presentation and, especially after the changes, it will be very good. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u69	Mr President! Here Mr Rantanen and Mr Huttunen spoke well, and there is not much to add, and I am sure we will also hear from the chairman of the committee, Mr Purra, an even broader explanation of how the work of the committee has progressed. In any case, I can conclude that this large package has now been brought forward, and it is worth thanking the Committee on Administrative Affairs for that. Mr President! I would like to bring to the debate only two aspects which I think are important to take into account in these matters. On the other hand, data protection, which is of course an extremely important issue in itself, must not become a barrier to rational action, and the right of public authorities to information must not be jeopardised so that the administration can act reliably. I believe, however, that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Administrative Affairs, as the author of the report, have now weighed up all aspects and placed the right balance on these issues, but on such a general level, I see that there is always a place for us as legislators to follow, so that, as such, good intentions, better data protection, then become an obstacle to the rational functioning of the administration, which would undermine public confidence in the functioning of the administration. Another aspect, Mr President, and perhaps even a bigger one for the future, is this lack of legislation for automated decision-making in Finland. This is definitely something that should be taken high on the priority list, because if we think that we want to streamline and streamline the administration and make clear decisions to citizens as quickly as possible, then this legislation in Finland must certainly be put in place. This government proposal is a concrete example of the fact that it has poked at it since, as a general rule, we have not yet dealt with this legislative framework to the level at which I believe it should be in this period of time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u70	Mr President! I will use this introduction in this context. I apologise in advance for the lengthy speech, because this package is very broad and very complex. The committee made significant changes to this, not only on the basis of the information it has received, but also, of course, on the basis of the views of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. In the proposal for a law on the processing of personal data by immigration administrations and some related laws, it is proposed to provide for a law on the processing of personal data by immigration administrations. The law would apply to the processing of personal data in the field of immigration administration and would replace the Act on the Alien Register, which is proposed to be repealed. The proposed law would focus on the regulation of the processing of personal data on other laws in the field of immigration administration. It also includes proposals to amend the Act on the recognition and assistance of applicants for international protection and of victims of trafficking in human beings, the Act on the treatment and detention of detained foreigners, the Act on the Promotion of Integration, the Act on Citizenship, the Act on Immigration, the Act on the Publicity of Government Activities, the Security Clearance Act and the Act on the Grey Financial Clearance Unit. In addition, the proposal includes proposals for technical amendments on a number of other laws. The aim is that, in future, the processing of personal data in the immigration administration will be governed jointly by a law that meets the requirements of the modern Personal Data Act, which will complement the EU Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act and the law on the processing of personal data in criminal matters and in the context of the maintenance of national security. The law on public access to the activities of the authorities would be amended to focus on rules on the confidentiality of documents of the immigration administration. The explanatory statement of the Government proposal has explained the relationship between the proposals contained in the proposal and the Data Protection Regulation and the Criminal Data Protection Act. The committee proposes amendments to the first draft law, which are also relevant to EU law. EU data protection legislation does not impose any restrictions on the choice of the current register-based or proposed use-based regulatory solution as a regulatory solution. In addition, the committee notes that the Data Protection Regulation, the Data Protection Act and the Criminal Data Protection Act contain detailed provisions on the general principles of the processing of personal data, the obligations of the controller and the rights of the data subject, data security and the supervision of the processing of personal data, as well as on penalties for unlawful processing of personal data. In the view of the Committee, the proposed regulation takes due account of requirements arising from EU law. However, the competence to assess the conformity of regulation with EU law rests with the EU Court of Justice. On the basis of the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the committee supports the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the Government's proposal by means of comments and amendments to the report. The committee also proposes the adoption of one new legislative proposal. The Committee considers it important for the Ministry of the Interior to monitor and evaluate the implementation of the new legislation, with regard to, among other things, the functioning of regulation, the implementation of personal data protection and the monitoring of the processing of personal data. Mr President! In its report, the committee raises a number of amendments relating to the draft law. The protection of national security is now one of the original purposes for the processing of personal data provided for in the proposed Alien Register Act. The Administrative Committee notes that the information in the register of foreigners is important for the security of the State and for the serious prevention of an act threatening the security of Finland. In order to protect national security, it is important to ensure that the persons constituting the threat can be identified as early as possible and that their stay can be addressed if necessary. If the protection of national security is no longer the original purpose of processing personal data by law, it should be regulated separately as a non-original processing purpose. Such a change in regulatory technology would entail a risk that the information would not be available in line with the current situation. The change could also give the wrong impression that the information would no longer be so relevant for the protection of national security. The Administrative Committee therefore considers that the protection of national security should be maintained as the original purpose for the processing of personal data. In order to clarify and clarify regulation, the committee proposes amendments to the provisions relating to the protection of national security. The committee proposes that the procedure for dealing with foreign affairs be completely changed. Article 12 of the draft law contained in the Government proposal It has been proposed to regulate situations where, in the field of It is not a question of any processing purpose, but of the tasks laid down by law for the controller, the performance of which requires the processing of personal data for purposes other than the processing for which the data were originally stored. In the light of the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, the regulation on the right of the controller to information needs to be clarified and this paragraph therefore needs to be clarified. The Administrative Committee therefore proposes that situations involving the transfer of information between different controllers should be distinguished from those in which the controller himself processes the data stored in the system. In the Government's proposal, it is proposed to amend the regulation proposed in the Publicity Act so that the presumption of secrecy is limited as required by the Constitutional Committee by removing the reference to the harm caused by knowledge. In addition, the provision deletes the reference to the damage caused to the parties or to their loved ones as a result of public access to documents. According to the committee's proposal, confidentiality is therefore only a condition of liability, which is therefore equivalent to the law on publicity in force. The Administrative Committee also proposes that the section on automatic individual decisions be deleted from the draft law. According to the Government's proposal, the purpose of enabling automatic decision-making was to reconcile the growing queues of the Finnish Immigration Service, the number of applications and the decreasing resources so that the simplest issues could be resolved more effectively, which would then be in the interests of applicants and businesses and society as well. These objectives are also important in the opinion of the Administrative Committee, but, taking into account the views of the Constitutional Committee, there are no conditions for the provision of automatic individual decisions. It involves specific issues relating to fundamental rights and the exercise of public authority, which must be assessed separately through the development of general legislation. And then there's the data controller. The proposed law adheres to the basic solution proposed by the Board of Directors, according to which several authorities are responsible for the data stored in the system as a controller. According to the information received by the committee, it is considered appropriate that these authorities do not, however, act as joint controllers but are therefore completely separate. The identification of controllers is essential to clarify which authority is responsible for the obligations set out in the Data Protection Regulation. As the committee proposes that this common register should be abolished, it does not propose to provide for the associated contact points. In addition, the committee proposes that the division of responsibilities between controllers and the right to information be regulated more precisely and that the structure of regulation be clarified. Furthermore, the committee considers it necessary that Article 2 of the Immigration Administration's Personal Data Act determine the relationship with other legislation. It will be clarified that it will show more clearly the relationship between the proposed law on the one hand, the Data Protection Regulation and the Data Protection Act on the other, and the Criminal Data Protection Act on the other. Mr President! Yes, this package was very laborious. The report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u71	Mr President! After an excellent report by the chairman of the Administrative Committee, I would just like to say briefly for my part that this reflects the fact that the work that is taking place in Parliament on such an important issue is really important. After all, it is often given the impression in public that the representatives of the government parties are only here, so to speak, to press the button on the government's proposals, and the opposition representatives are then perhaps pressing another button, but this is where we really worked quite thoroughly on this in the Administrative Committee. As far as I understand it, this issue dates back back to the previous term of government and to the autumn period, but this was re-introduced, as described by the chairman of the committee, completely or quite completely. That is all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u72	The 7th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 13/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u73	Mr President! Today is, of course, an historic day. After the wars, Finland had lived under normal conditions for 75 years until the exceptional conditions in the country had to be established in March, and today the exceptional conditions have now ended after three months. That does not mean, however, that the threat of a pandemic for us is over, or that the situation for our decision-makers will somehow become easier, perhaps even the other way round. Finland is a society with a good level of preparedness. We are a society in which we have wisely been able to anticipate and practice for the various dangers that may arise. The fact that Finland is the most functioning society in the world has been well seen during this situation of corona pandemic, and the situation has been well managed in Finland. But indeed, the fact that the disease situation and, as a result, the public health situation have been made safe does not, of course, eliminate the fact that Finland and Finland are still threatened by the economic effects of the crisis. In this respect, Mr President, I am sure that the most demanding work for decision-makers is just ahead. It is a good thing that we now continue to remove the carnage of those who are laid off until the end of the year. The information presented in this report on the unemployment situation, those who are laid off and those who are threatened with lay-off is quite intense. According to the latest information — this is dated 7.6. — had a total of 1,44237 full-time lay-offs as unemployed job seekers and 291,394 other unemployed job seekers. By that time, about 5,800 employers had registered with the Employment and Economic Development Offices reports on layoffs received in the spring, and they concerned some 540,000 employees. These are really serious figures for the future well-being of Finns. We must do everything we can to ensure that the state of the national economy is secure as we move towards normal conditions. In this respect, I believe that Parliament and the opposition in this Parliament want to hand the government a hand and all the tools in order to get employment measures done in Finland and the national economy to recover quickly, so that we can get back to the path of sustainable growth after this pandemic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u74	Mr President! My speech is very similar to what Mr Autto has just said. I have taken it upon myself that I do not repeat the same figures just because I can record them in the Minutes as I have said, but like a representative. Helpto said, about half a million Finns are concerned with unemployment in one form or another at the moment, and family members are on top, so we have now really moved from the health crisis to the economic crisis some time ago. This is a very important point, as is the next paragraph, in which I shall not speak. That is EUR 600 million for our unemployment benefit. So this is how we are now trying to get out of this crisis, and we will certainly get through it. Often these extension laws, as is the case with the continuation of what has already been laid down, go out here quite intransigently, and it is, of course, quite elegant, but it does not diminish the weight of these matters.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u75	Mr President! Like Mr Lindén, I will not repeat what has been said. I would just like to say that there is certainly a point to this proposal. Although in many areas the summer has now been quite lively — this unemployment and lay-off peak has not affected all sectors — I know that many entrepreneurs are already thinking about the coming autumn and the coming winter. Especially in seasonal areas, it is likely that the handbrake will start already after the summer, i.e. towards the cold months that begin. Therefore, this extension will be very necessary. I know that in many families, with a little fearsome feelings, we are already thinking about the coming winter — not only about whether the corona pandemic will strike again, but also about whether employers will be encouraged to hire workers against the winter and against this quiet time — so this is a very welcome addition. And as has already been said here, our task here in the House is to ensure that society does not stop, and this decision is one part of its decision-making.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u76	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the SIVM 7/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u77	Mr President! I present the committee's report. According to the Government's Resolution of 6 May on the hybrid strategy plan for the management of the corona crisis, the use of secondary schools, vocational education institutions, polytechnics, universities, liberal educational work and basic adult education facilities for teaching will be managed on 14 May. from the date of entry into force of the measures provided for in the Act on The Government's proposal stresses that there is no clear information available on the duration of the corona virus epidemic and that it is not currently possible to accurately predict how the epidemic will develop during or later this year. As a result, there is no information as to what kind of restrictions might be necessary at a later stage as a result of the epidemic. The Government's proposal proposes to add temporary provisions to the University and University of Applied Sciences Act to take into account the effects of the possible continuation of the coronavirus epidemic on the statutory obligations of universities related to the organisation of studies and at the same time ensure the legal security of students. The committee's expert hearings have supported the government's proposal. On the basis of the reasons for the Government's proposal and the report it has received, the Committee on Education considers that the Government's proposal is necessary and appropriate. The committee proposes the adoption of the legislative proposals contained in the government proposal as unchanged. As regards the organisation of teaching and guidance, we stated: ‘The proposal to add a new Article 40 of the University Act to the Article 40 and 5 of the University of Applied Sciences Act14 in the interim period isnew4and5in which the University of Derogations from the obligation to organise education and guidance in higher education during the corona epidemic have been provided for in the implementing regulations in force until 13.5.2020 and the regulation of the obligation to organise education is necessary in the event of a possible continuation of the epidemic. In accordance with existing legislation, both universities and polytechnics can, within the framework of their autonomy, carry out education and guidance in a variety of ways, including in the form of non-local education. The transition to, or continuation of, distance learning is therefore a matter for universities to decide on. However, universities must take care of the research-based nature of education and the quality of education regardless of the way in which education is organised. The expert consultation has drawn attention to the fact that a significant part of the degree, even for a year and a half, will be completed in an exceptional way in the generation of students starting distance studies. Particular attention must therefore be paid to ensuring the quality of studies and students' ability to study, and universities must be able to carry out their educational tasks despite the flexibility provided by this bill. In addition, emphasis has been placed on ensuring access to studies even under exceptional circumstances, so that students can graduate on time and enter the labour market. Delays in studies have implications for social benefits received by students, for example. The committee considers that the position expressed by the Board of Directors is well founded that any delay in studies due to exceptional arrangements will be taken into account when considering the student's extension. The Committee considers it important that the impact of the proposal on the student's various benefits is assessed in a comprehensive manner, such as the importance of continuing exceptional circumstances for the need to review the conditions for credit for student loans. It has been suggested in the expert consultation that, in the event of a change in the pandemic situation, it should be possible to shorten the duration of the provisions on flexibility in the organisation of education. The Committee stresses that the application of the proposed provisions is bound by the current epidemic situation with regard to the exception of the obligation to organise teaching and guidance for studies and that it is not possible to organise studies or guidance for studies because of the epidemic. Consequently, in the event of an epidemic situation which may expire before the expiry of the law, those provisions are no longer applicable. The Education Committee very much welcomes the proposal contained in the Government's proposal that the status of students starting in higher education in autumn 2020 and spring 2021 during the corona virus epidemic should be facilitated by enabling them to register as absent during the first academic year if they are prevented from starting their studies due to an epidemic-related official decree or other serious reasons related to the epidemic. According to Article 39 of the current Universities Act and Article 29 of the Polytechnics Act, the possibility of becoming absent during the first academic year is only possible if the student performs a service in accordance with the Military Act, the Civil Service Act or the Women's Voluntary Service Act, is on maternity, paternity or parental leave or is unable to begin his/her studies because of his/her illness or disability. The proposed new provisions on absenteeism during the first academic year relate in particular to new international students whose start-up may be prevented by an epidemic. According to the proposal, the regulatory provisions referred to in the proposed provisions may be either national or other national. They may relate, for example, to restrictions on entry or travel. Other heavy causes related to the epidemic in accordance with the regulations refer, for example, to problems related to the residence permit process in the student's country of origin or in Finland due to longer processing times by the diplomatic missions or the Finnish Immigration Service. This provision requires that the student is effectively prevented from starting his or her studies. The student’s own decision not to start studies is therefore not sufficient to register as absent. In principle, the student himself has an obligation to provide an explanation of the fact that the start of studies has been prevented. The Government's proposal emphasises that the proposal does not oblige universities to organise the same courses at the same time, both as local and distance education, in a situation where contact teaching has been returned but there are still problems with entry. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers the proposed time-limits for absenteeism to be clear and acceptable during the first academic year. In the practical application of the rules, it is important that the restrictions arising from a pandemic are carefully investigated in the student's home country, so that the student is not denied the opportunity to register as absent on the basis of incomplete information. The committee's proposal for a decision is that Parliament should adopt the first and second draft legislation contained in the Government proposal 84/2020 without amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u78	Madam President! Although the exceptional conditions in Finland have ended today, the epidemic situation in the world is still getting worse, and it is clear that this situation will have a great deal to do with the Finnish university life, for example, so that students may not be able to start their studies as planned. In this respect, it is very important that this legislative proposal now improves the legal security of students, and that is where the chairman of the Committee on Education, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mr Risikko, well described the practical effects of the law. Mr President! I would now like to point out, in the midst of this period of derogation, also the shortcomings which have obviously occurred during the spring in the field of university selection — and when we have a respected chairman of the committee here, perhaps the committee can also put the right pressure on the Government to look at how this legal protection for students can be safeguarded, in so far as it can be shown that there have been problems with admission tests. According to publicly available information, in the most desirable fields of education, it is said that, although medicine, there has been a clear display of behaviour during the tests that has not been permitted under the arrangements of this experiment. Of course, this would obviously have been the case in retrospect to take into account that if the experiment can be achieved by using public sources of information, such as the Internet, it must be allowed for everyone, and not so that those who violate the rules can benefit from the entrance test, and those who do not violate the rules will be left in a weaker position. Or if it has been possible to benefit from the experiment by doing it as a teamwork, for example, it would have been by the organiser of the entrance exam that such teamwork would have been impossible to carry out the technical arrangements of the experiment or to give everyone the advice that you can also work in a teamwork type. These are obviously flaws that must be addressed, because we must not send a signal that in Finnish society we can fraudulently move forward. Fraud is not an acceptable way to go, even in the midst of exceptional circumstances. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. As such, this proposal is very important and it is important that the legal protection of students is ensured in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u79	Mr President! I have spoken out in favour of enabling distance education throughout the spring, because extensive studies have shown good results and encourage us to continue in distance education if the situation so requires. In the hearings of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the government's proposal on the direction of experts has also been supported, and we unanimously consider it very necessary and clear. I hope, therefore, that Parliament will accept these legislative proposals without amendment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u80	Mr President! Let me say something else: that is the report of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy that I have just presented, and we were very much in agreement on this issue. Now that this is being operated precisely through these basic laws, namely through the University of Applied Sciences Act and the University of Applied Sciences Act, then there is no need even to confuse the Act on communicable diseases with other laws. It is very good that such a decision is now being taken. After all, this whole corona epidemic has had a great deal to do with the whole sector in the Committee on Education and Rural Development. Of course, all other sectors of society, but if you think about what we are dealing with in that Committee on Education, then we have a study of education there, there are also these library issues, there are artists, scientists, creative industries, music, all the cultural sectors, so that it has been quite a cold ride, and that is why we are trying to make this easier with all our strength. This is a bill specifically aimed at the lives of universities of applied sciences and university students, and this bill seeks to make it easier, which means that there is the possibility of distance learning, but then also this possibility of registering as absent. Of course, we are also trying to take into account the fact that these are very limited situations, and also the fact that no conditions are possible, for example, to register as absent. In my opinion, this bill, the government proposal, was well prepared at the Ministry of Education and Culture, and in that sense this was easy to accept. However, we wanted to point out that this is because of what it is and what it is all about and what it is about. That is where Mr Autto brought up this selection process. That has now been one of the things that has been created by the corona epidemic and which is, you can say, a little like my grief, and it does test it a little bit — and not a little bit, but I think it is being tested — the legal protection of the applicant for a student, and it has to do with the fact that the selection criteria and the procedure were changed there during the selection process. At the moment, the Deputy Parliamentary Ombudsman will clarify this matter and, by 5 June, will have asked the Ministry of Education and Culture to report on this matter, and we will, of course, be waiting for it. When Mr Autto referred to this, of course, we in the committee will certainly deal with the report or analysis of its assistant Ombudsman, the opinion on what this is about and what it should have been possible to do, and whether something can then be corrected afterwards. But this was a test of legal certainty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u81	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes to amend the University Act and the Polytechnic Act temporarily because of the emergency situation and the restrictions associated with the covid-19 epidemic. It is proposed to include in the University of Applied Sciences Act provisions on absenteeism in the first academic year if the student has been prevented from starting his or her studies due to an official decree relating to the epidemic or other serious reasons related to the epidemic. As a whole, this is a good bill which has been supported by the Committee on Education — in which I myself sit. This is important because, for example, delays in studies will then have an impact on social benefits received by students. Good speeches came from Mr Auto and also from the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Risiko, on this very situation, to which university of applied sciences and university of applied sciences have now been subjected because of this pandemic situation. Problems have come and unexpectedly. I am sure that the experts will now take a stand on this matter of legal security. However, we must also take into account and say that the government as a whole is now also responding to the fact that the starting points for universities and universities of applied sciences are being increased and resources are also being reserved for them. I think there should continue to be more of those starting places. However, there are quite a lot of students — in our home, among others, one — who have motivation and who are passionate about looking for something and then don’t get into it, become like this in vain inter-years. Surely, in many places, students will then have to hold on to inter-years. In other words, more study places for higher education, it is also the SDP's line.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u82	Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u83	Mr President! Mr Asell gave an excellent speech. This is what we have just discussed, and I very much agree with him that, when we get more of these starting places, it will make it a little easier in this situation. After all, we have a number of areas which are now calling for the opening places, for example in the field of social services and kindergarten teachers, which is a great thing if we are able to increase by sector in this way, but also to tailor regionally to what is necessary. What is important, then, is that those starting places are genuinely given money. Of course, every school would like to increase those starting places now, because it is important, and that is why they exist, but of course there must be funding for them, because if there is no funding, then it will be something else out and out of that education. But then in connection with these starting points: These starting points are a good thing, but that does not remove the problem of legal certainty in this selection procedure and process. There is still such a difficult situation for the student that, in mid-March, even though schools were closed, the aids allowed, there was precisely the instructions that the selection tests could be held at the school premises, and this was the difficult situation here that they were not organised. I understand many of the reasons for this, but even in exceptional circumstances, there is a need for legal protection. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u84	The 10th item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the report SiVM 6/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Is the chairman of the committee Risikko?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u85	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, the committee has produced a report on this, and it states: ‘In spring2020, the education and training resulting from The implementing regulations limited the obligation to organise local education and guidance at different levels of education on a temporary basis.’ ‘In the context of theexceptional arrangements for educational establishments, the regional authorities The first decisions of the regional authorities concerned were valid from 18 March to 13 April. and follow-up decisions 14.4. to 13.5.’ ‘On 6 May, a policy decision on the hybrid strategy plan for crisis management in the Government provides for the from the date of entry into force of the measures provided for in the Act on ‘After the entry into force of the implementing However, the implementation of the evidence as required by normal legislation is difficult because of the lack of access to the evidence in the workplace due to the corona virus epidemic. The Corona virus epidemic has hampered the implementation of evidence of vocational education and training, in particular in certain fields of education and in the case of students at risk.’ ‘The proposal will enable the continuation of vocational training andthe acquisition of The purpose of the proposal is to facilitate the possibility of derogating from the main rule on how to implement evidence of competence, according to which displays must be carried out by carrying out practical tasks in real work tasks and processes. Instead, it is proposed that the displays can be carried out by carrying out other practical tasks which as far as possible correspond to genuine work situations and work processes. In addition, the proposed legislative amendment will facilitate the possibility, if necessary, of complementing the skills shown on the screen with other assessments of competence. The proposed law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible and to remain in force until 31.7.2021.’ ‘For thereasons for which the Board’s proposal is The committee proposes the adoption of the draft law contained in the draft without amendment.’ We then took a position on a few points in the report, for example: “Students’ ability to demonstrate skills and skills in Due to job closure or high risk of infection, it has been difficult or impossible for many educational sectors to carry out evidence of skills related to vocational training in genuine working environments.’ ‘The committee considers it desirable that the presentation ensure the conditions for Delays in evidence can lead the student to graduate and thus to transition to employment later than planned. From the employers’ point of view, the impact is mainly on the availability of skilled labour. As long as jobs are unable to offer the necessary opportunities to acquire skills and demonstrate them in real jobs, the situation may become even more difficult. It is important to ensure that the completion of any student does not get caught in the missing workplace display environment.” ‘In order to ensure that the proposed provisions are not hindered,it is Demonstration of skills in genuine work is a key quality factor in vocational education and training. The Committee stresses that the flexibility offered is only used where necessary for reasons related to the corona virus epidemic.’ ‘The committee stresses that vocational training and exceptional arrangements will ensure the quality of skills and ‘This temporary change will ‘In the expert consultation,recommendations ‘The Committee considers it essential that the impact of the proposed amendment of the law on the implementation of evidence On the basis of the information provided by the monitoring, it is possible to assess the need to prepare for legislative changes in order to stabilise the changes now intended to be temporary.” ‘The situation of the We also took a position on the use of digitalisation. Here's what we found. ‘In addition to the number of jobs available for the exhibition environment, The Committee stresses that the situation can be facilitated by using digital solutions. As far as possible, they should be used more widely in the event of changes in the way in which evidence is organised and the assessment of skills is carried out. It is important that digital methods and learning environments are also developed in cooperation with different actors and that good practices are shared out for others to use and further develop.” We also took a stand on communication: ‘The committee shall pay attention to the fact that the promotion of education and trainingis a Communication and information include guidelines and support for online services. They are intended to support the activities of training providers in a harmonised manner, which will contribute to ensuring equal access to studies and to the completion of the degree and its components.’ “The Commission’s expert opinion on the design of the support provided in It is also important to continue to do so under any further exceptional circumstances. “ ‘It is important for the authorities toenhance their mutual contacts andthat guidance Sufficient information should be provided to all interested parties: students, educational institutions and workplaces. “ And as a proposal for a decision, we have a legislative proposal in the Government proposal 85/2020 that Parliament will accept without amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u86	Mr President! I wanted to come again to praise Finnish teachers, this time professional teachers. I have been watching closely throughout the spring how teachers in vocational education have taken advantage of digitalisation and have created new innovations so that teaching has not been cut off very much. Of course, in vocational education and training students also need local education and practical training, but many of the new teaching methods that emerged this spring will continue to be used in vocational education alongside previous teaching methods. Particular care must be taken to ensure that each student receives sufficient personal assistance and support in his or her studies, whatever the form of study. Education must not discriminate between students and students, and more attention must be paid to this in the future in the development of distance education. This bill is about the temporary possibility of demonstrating skills and skills, i.e. the performance of evidence, rather than real work situations and work processes, by carrying out other practical tasks that are as close as possible to genuine work situations or work processes, and it would also be possible to complement the skills shown on the screen with other assessments of competence. The aim of the proposal is to enable the progress of studies and the completion of qualifications and qualifications, despite the exceptional circumstances of the corona virus epidemic. Although the emergency conditions have now ended, the epidemic is by no means over. Delays in evidence can lead the student to completion of the profession and thus to the transition to employment. From the employers’ point of view, the impact is mainly on the availability of skilled labour. It is important to ensure that the completion of any student does not get caught in the missing workplace display environment. On the other hand, the demonstration of skills in genuine work is a key quality factor in vocational training and the flexibility offered should therefore only be used where necessary. In all circumstances, care must be taken to ensure that the professional life can be confident that the skills and skills of the graduates have been properly evaluated and verified. The skills, skills and responsibilities of the screen receivers are thus further emphasised. It is also clear that in some occupations it is easier to arrange the matter than in others. Mr President! At the end of the day, I would like to say that the impact of this proposed legislative amendment should be monitored, taking into account the views of students, educational institutions and employers. I strongly believe that follow-up information can be used to develop entirely new ways of working in vocational education and training, including continuing vocational training, including digitalisation and, in the future, virtual reality by making greater use of it. Virtual learning environments have not yet been optimised in vocational education and training.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u87	Mr President! As with the previous motion, this report, which the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media considered necessary, we propose the adoption of the draft law contained in the proposal without amendment. A situation in which graduation is postponed, qualifications are stretched and employment is delayed is not in anyone's interest, nor is it a situation where incompetent people are graduating from vocational schools. It is therefore of paramount importance that, in spite of the reductions proposed, the possibilities for real work situations, such as the identification of alternative jobs, should be explored. Demonstration of skills in genuine work is a key quality factor in vocational education and training. We stress in the report that the flexibility offered is only used when it is necessary for reasons related to the corona virus epidemic.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u88	Madam President, today I noticed from Parliament's Twitter account that you had met with the Prime Minister and together you rejoiced at the end of the exceptional circumstances. It is our shared joy, but at the same time we all realise that the threat is not over yet, but that we will continue to be cautious and possibly also experience the fact that the second wave of the corona can be a reality. But, of course, we hope that we have survived the corona once and for all. Mr President! This draft law on evidence in vocational training is very good and is to be welcomed from the point of view of both education providers and students and, as has been heard in this debate, from the point of view of working life. It is also noteworthy that all 19 contributors supported this proposal. The proposal is very much to be supported and necessary, and it is great that the government in this way also brings flexibility to the implementation of evidence of vocational training, but I fully agree with what Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen said that it is important to take into account the fact that students also need these traditional ways of showing evidence and that the evidence given in the real world of work is the best way for many people to do it. In this report, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media rightly states that these flexibility opportunities will only be used when they are necessary for the reasons of the epidemic. Thank you to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media for a good, careful, well-considered report and to the government for this good, well-supported proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u89	Madam President! In the previous debate, thanks were given to the government for a good proposal, and I would like to add my thanks to the increase in the number of university start-ups. It makes sense in this situation. This proposal, which is now under discussion, for greater flexibility in vocational qualifications is also very good in terms of the legal security of students. There have already been many good speeches and the chairman of the committee. The Risiko has put this very well, and I will not go into it any further, but indeed this, that the demonstration of skills in genuine work is a key quality factor in vocational training, and the fact that the committee stresses that the flexibility offered is only used when it is necessary for reasons of the corona virus epidemic, is of course important principles. Of course, I would like to think very seriously about this occupational orientation of vocational education and training myself when important guidelines are being drawn up in the autumn on the way in which this reconstruction of Finland is being carried out. The government has seen it as one of the key measures to extend compulsory education, and this is indeed a very serious point of reflection as to whether it will help young people at risk of exclusion to learn — and for one year, hardly adult people are forced to go to school — or whether there should be more of that working life dynamic in vocational education and training than in Germany, for example, to see in practice how such a master, if only to say so, will really help those young people who are not so happy to spend it and for whom reading is not necessarily the way to learn, to catch those paths in society. This is the kind of master-style thinking that I encourage the government to apply for its reform as a starting point if, as the government has suggested, we are going to move forward in the autumn. But all in all, I wonder if the money that is now being spent on this reform can be used more effectively at the beginning of the school path by investing in the fact that we will have the best comprehensive school in the world in Finland in the future. All students are well equipped and highly motivated to move on to the learning path, and the students who are motivated then will be looking for training programmes that will certainly also give them their secondary degree.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u90	Mr President! This government proposal amends the provisions of the Vocational Training Act on how skills and skills can be demonstrated, i.e. evidence. According to the main rule, displays must be carried out by performing practical tasks in real work situations and work processes. However, during the Corona virus epidemic, it has been difficult or impossible to carry out evidence in genuine work situations and processes, especially in some educational fields, where jobs are closed or at high risk of infection. It is proposed to temporarily amend the rules on the way in which the displays are carried out so that the displays can be carried out, instead of genuine work situations and working processes, by carrying out other practical tasks which correspond as far as possible to genuine work situations. In addition, the possibility of complementing the skills shown on the screen with other assessments of competence would be reduced if necessary. The aim of the proposal is to enable the progress of studies and the completion of part of the degree and degree in exceptional circumstances caused by the coronavi-rus epidemic. The committee supports this. The expert hearings have expressed the hope of monitoring the proposed changes and possible permanentisation of what is good. The committee has taken a position on this and considers it important that the impact of the amendment of the law on both the ways in which the evidence is carried out and the assessment of competence is closely monitored and comprehensively collected information covering the aspects of students, educational institutions and working life. On the basis of the information provided by the monitoring, it is possible to assess the need to prepare for legislative changes in order to stabilise the changes now intended to be temporary, and this will certainly be the case. Digitalisation is one of the things that will certainly be seen more effectively in the future in studying and, therefore, in working life. While coronapandemics and viruses are a bad thing as a whole, it is of course good to see what changes are taking place and then make use of them. Digitalisation is one of the good things that has certainly gone through now, a true digital leap in many economies and also in study.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u91	Mr President! I am a little disappointed that vocational education and training has been a little out of hand in this debate on education policy during the corona period, but today there has been a great deal of effort in these legislations, and there has been a lot of effort in amending budget 4. Indeed, this legislative change is important for vocational education and training studies, which have been very challenging this spring, especially in terms of evidence of traineeships and skills, which are an extremely important part of education and also a prerequisite for graduation. It is of the utmost importance that this issue is now addressed and that it is possible to make progress in studies and degrees even during the corona virus epidemic and to support the graduation of students. In fact, vocational education has been undergoing quite a change since the reform, which is now being modified by this government. It is extremely important to move forward with the Government's three-year development programme for vocational education and training for the years 2020 to 2022, which already has large stakes for this year — EUR 80 million for the recruitment of teachers and instructors, which was pushed to a minimum with the reform. After all, the Government Programme includes much more than EUR 200 million more money for vocational education and training to support learning conditions, the well-being of students and the response to change in the operating environment to the needs of the workforce in education and training. It is also important that the reform of the government's continuing learning be tightened up. More than 90 training and employment projects have now been adopted to support changing working life and the availability of skilled labour in the future. These funds and these contributions are perfectly suited to these exceptional circumstances and enable vocational training and self-development, especially now in exceptional circumstances. In the context of this article, an additional EUR 30 million was added in the amending budget to support the corona virus situation, to prevent drop-out of studies, and to enable students who are about to graduate to produce evidence under exceptional circumstances which have been challenging. Today, after all, this clause extends the possibility of exceptional evidence until the end of July 21. There has also been little attention paid to increasing and launching the supplementary budget training for 5000 local nursing students by 2024. In exceptional circumstances, it is extremely important to provide us with such important vocational training and the completion of our skills.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u92	Mr Risikko, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u93	Mr President! I'll take it from there. So this bill is also very much to be welcomed, and that is where we are thinking very much about providing evidence in a situation where it cannot be provided in a real working community, and it would demonstrate the competence which would then provide the employer with assurance that this person has carried out all the tasks and that the quality of his skills has been ensured. However, as a teacher of vocational education and training — and I have been one of the first to prepare evidence studies in the Finnish National Board of Education at the time — I note that not all skills can be shown under school conditions. Of course, it has always been specified and it is intended that, in the most authentic situations possible, the displays should be made, that if you can't go to the real working communities, then at least then to the simulated ones. But, for example, there are a lot of situations in nursing where, unfortunately, the only thing you can do is show your skills with the right patient, the client. But this is a good idea for exceptional situations, and I trust, just as teachers have been praised here, that they are also able to judge that they do not accept the ‘what happens’ status of the display, but that they do not give a certificate to any of them who are completely convinced that this aspect of personal affairs. So, in that sense, it is extremely important to take that aspect into account. So this is not a simple matter. Then I also know that this has caused a great deal of grief to students too as to whether or not they will graduate. For example, health care has happened that even though the student has been at the last metres of study, it has been denied going to the workplace, and it has been very annoying. Of course, our teachers have done everything in their power to have these students graduate, but it has not always been entirely possible, especially if much has not been done. But I hope that this law will also help students and educational institutions. We also drew attention to communication, and I think there is a good reminder here for all of us that, when these instructions are given, there must be uniform instructions, clear instructions and also legally sustainable. Of course, this applies to all these laws when they are applied, when there are many applicators there: it is the body responsible for training, it must be carried out and there is still a supervisor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u94	The 11th item of the agenda will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 13/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u95	Madam President! This bill is not the law of the corona era, but rather based on a common European regulation on how consumer protection authorities can cooperate and, in order to cooperate, of course, consumer protection authorities in different countries must have at least that uniform minimum toolbox on how to protect the consumer. We will certainly come back to these corona measures in the next report, which then deals more specifically with this Finnish consumer protection law. But of course, Mr President, perhaps I would have liked the government to react more quickly in this situation of interest rates, and why, after the crisis, should this not be the case, how should this be corrected for the future? When Finland’s ageing population is increasingly affected by various fraud attempts and outright fraud, the consumer authority and the authorities should have more tools to deal with these at all. Of course, I very much regret this: With special measures to protect the elderly population in this corona situation, exhorting those over 70 to stay under such quarantine conditions, the situation has certainly been confusing and frightening in many ways. When many municipalities and cities, for example, have very properly organized aid and support for quarantine-like conditions there, for example, they have been asked to catch up and have asked if there is a need for help in business and so on, then, unfortunately, the fraudsters have gone along with it, presented themselves, for example, in the name of the authority, tried to come home, and then they have been taken away from it, or otherwise these elderly people have been tricked. I find this extremely reprehensible, and I wonder whether it would have been necessary to impose, for example, greater criminal liability on those who, in this situation, are trying to exploit this pandemic situation and this particularly vulnerable situation for the elderly. That is very reprehensible, and I think that this is where the lawmakers in the ministries and as our legislators here in Parliament should be in keeping with the situation. But it is good that this legislation is progressing anyway.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u96	The 12th item in the order of business will be presented for second reading and for the sole reading. At second reading, we can now adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading. Finally, it will be decided at the sole reading on the initiative of the measure.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u97	Madam President! It has been said from the Government Programme that now, with the corona, it has to be thrown into a scrap heap. It is quite true that this programme will have to be examined once the situation has changed, but here I am raising one good point about our government programme. As regards consumer credit and quick credit, it is stated that their regulation is monitored first but also that measures are taken if there is a lack of regulation and that ‘to reduce the attractiveness of consumer credit by continuing work to curb aggressive marketing’. These high-interest short-term loans, i.e. short-term loans, which this government proposal concerns, have been a problem in our country for a long time. Thousands of people have found themselves in a spiral of new levers trying to pay off old ones, and it is good that the legislation on these credits has been reformed on several occasions. It is much about making life easier for disadvantaged people. I believe that there is still a need for change in legislation. The present proposal concerns this situation caused by the interest rate and is temporary. It is very good that the government now wants to curb the interest rate and marketing of consumer credit in this situation. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which drew up the report on the government's proposal, notes that the corona crisis has led to a much higher offer of consumer credit as direct marketing, and now this legislative proposal temporarily prohibits this direct marketing. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy also notes that credit is justified by the loss of income resulting from the crisis, the impact of lay-offs on income and other payment difficulties when they are marketed to people. It is true that the financial distress caused by the interest rate has created the space for more and more people to wonder if they would take such a quick break, and it is therefore good that the government is trying to correct the situation in such a way that the attractiveness is not so great. In its report, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy stresses the importance and importance of social credit, and I hope that the government will now make this social credit available throughout the country, in accordance with the government programme. When I asked Minister Kiuru about the situation in my written question, he said in February that the matter has already been prepared and that it is progressing, and I wish him every success.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u98	Madam President! I am a strong supporter of the market economy, and I believe that the market economy is never about taking advantage of the weaker position of a person in need. In this respect, it is really important that, now that we are living in an exceptional time from the point of view of our national economy, the government brings in such consumer protection measures to ensure that the interest rate on these credits is moderate and to set a temporary 10% interest rate cap. And, Madam President, I do not think it is bad, even if the government also takes a stricter line when conditions are normalised. Vipaping is neither a good practice nor an open market economy in which those who always operate on the market should have a sufficiently good common starting point to assess whether the contracts to be concluded are in the interest of both parties. When a central bank tries to make credit available to all in practice at negative interest rates, it cannot be that some in the same economy will then be able to extract substantial interest income from economies or individuals in a difficult position. In this respect, Madam President, I believe that this government proposal is justified, and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has done a good job, but I think that the government could now hear the voice of the needy Finns, the over-indebted people, and continue to try to reduce these interest rates and vibrating.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-06-16-ps-94.u99	Madam President! It was good to hear Mr Auton’s speech on this issue because I was somewhat confused by the opposition of the Assembly to this in the Committee on Economic Affairs, because that is exactly what I am thinking, too, of the fact that these fast-track companies have largely built their business to benefit from the situation of people in need, and there have been a number of different proposals here in Parliament that have tried to curb the activities of these companies. I think that the government's proposal is good that this ceiling is now being lowered, and I hope – as I think there was another colleague here who said that this was important – that this would perhaps be, if possible, the legislation in force after the corona crisis. The proposal for a statement by the People's Republic of Finland — and was even taken up in the amendment of the section — stated that this ceiling would also apply to loans traded in connection with the purchase of consumer goods. As far as I am concerned, it is quite logical, but when I look at some of these reports, which sell different commodities, in many cases the loan may even be very low-interest, because of course we are trying to get people to buy first and foremost. It may be that in them, as it were, the income logic is a little different, whereas for these fast-start companies, the income logic is explicitly at that particular rate. Mr President! I hope that this proposal should indeed be a driving force for a more permanent change, and I also think it is important for this social credit which has been highlighted in the committee's report. We still have very little of the municipalities in which this social credit is in place, and this applies to just those people who have credit information in perfect condition — or do not necessarily have credit information — but their ability to pay is in the sense that they will be able to pay back what they have accumulated and have regular income — but who, for some reason, have had a situation in life in the past, for example, with these various loans from the fast-start companies, and then they will be easier to manage if they were put together and paid off with a single loan. In such situations, this social credit could be an excellent tool, but in Finland it is far too little in use at the moment in urban social services.
