ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance, VaVM 5/2020 vp. The debate will begin with a general debate with a rapid response, allowing for a maximum of 5 minutes of pre-reserved speeches. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Furthermore, in the order in which I am considering it, I agree with the response. Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u2	Mr President! The second draft amending budget for 2020 is of an historic scale, reducing the actual revenue estimate by around EUR 5.8 billion and increasing the budget by around EUR 3.6 billion. The committee has also drawn attention to the fact that the government proposes to reduce the estimate of property income by EUR 1.1 billion and considers it appropriate that state assets should not be sold in the current market situation. It is very important that the government is committed to securing the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond the crisis caused by the corona virus with minimal human and financial damage and to fully cover the costs of the corona crisis for the maintenance of health and public authorities. These guidelines are also reflected in the draft amending budget, which makes significant additional contributions to health, livelihoods, improving the situation of municipalities and business activities, as well as to culture and physical activity. The second draft amending budget this year will increase the need for net government borrowing by EUR 9.4 billion, which is estimated at approximately EUR 12.7 billion this year as the net state borrowing. The amount of central government debt at the end of 20 is estimated to be around EUR 119 billion, which is about 53 per cent of GDP. This draft amending budget proposes compensation for the loss of tax revenue of EUR 547 million to the municipalities, which compensates for the accumulation of municipal tax revenue during the temporary tax payment scheme, and the corresponding reduction would then be made in the following year, unless otherwise decided in future budgets. This is an initial arrangement, as the Government has stated in its budget plan adopted on 16 April that it will prepare a package of subsidies of at least EUR 1 billion for municipalities for the next draft amending budget. The Committee on Finance considers strong support measures for local government finances to be necessary and also draws attention to the fact that the epidemic has had a very different impact on the municipalities' income base and on the growth of service needs. It is therefore important that municipalities be supported in a way that specifically targets the costs of the interest rate and the loss of tax revenue, taking into account the different situations of municipalities under exceptional circumstances. According to the survey, the income of hospital districts has also been reduced as urgent care has been drastically reduced and local authorities have not received any payments and, on the other hand, the direct costs of interest payments have increased rapidly. The committee considers it necessary that this be taken into account in the next amending budget and that the liquidity of hospital districts is secured by direct financial support. Significant compensations are presented to the administrative branch of the Ministry of Education and Culture for loss of income from art and culture and, correspondingly, additional money for the physical activity. The committee is in favour of these and considers it important that the need for this appropriation be looked at in the future. The Committee on Agriculture and Forestry considers that the amounts of aid of EUR 30 million and EUR 10 million submitted to it in the section of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry are necessary because the grants granted by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in the administrative sector do not cover enterprises engaged in agriculture, forestry and fisheries. The committee considers it necessary to safeguard domestic food production. Security of supply is based on the continuity of domestic primary production and production in the food industry, which covers the functioning of the whole chain, including seed and feed production, logistics and the availability of labour. In addition, particular concern should be given to ensuring the availability of domestic feed proteins in accordance with the objectives set for security of supply. It is precisely this year that we need a significant increase in the area of protein crops in Finland. Aid to enterprises was already increased by around EUR 1 billion in the first amending budget of the year, and the proposal under discussion also significantly increases aid to enterprises. The granting powers will be increased by half a billion and the budget will be increased by approximately EUR 750 million. Taking into account the combined amounts of the first and second amending budgets, the additional funding for enterprises will amount to EUR 1.9 billion and will be a good international level compared to other European countries. The Committee on Budgets believes that these forms of aid, including these additional appropriations, are justified and stresses the need to continue to monitor the allocation, adequacy and effectiveness of crisis financing. However, according to a report received by the committee, there have been shortcomings in the implementation of the existing criteria and in the allocation of funding. The criteria for the allocation of aid should therefore be reviewed as a matter of urgency and the effectiveness of the aid should be ensured in such a way as to promote employment more clearly and to target entrepreneurs whose operating conditions have been significantly reduced by the epidemic. In addition, the emphasis on funding should be considered in order to ensure the continuity of business operations beyond the crisis situation. The committee proposes that the following statement be adopted: ‘The Council of State shall prepare amendments to the Regulation anddirectly to the guidelines,in order to ensure that the aid to firms in the context of the high-risk crisis is properly It is also important to note that, in this difficult situation, the payment of these grants has been rapidly stepped up and that additional resources are needed for it, as shown by the additional budget, for the Ely centres and Business Finland and also for the TE Offices. The Government proposal does not yet include separate support for the restaurant sector. The committee refers to the statements adopted by Parliament and urges measures to ensure the continuity of the activities of restaurant entrepreneurs. The Committee also attaches importance to the resource increases proposed to the Social Insurance Institution and unemployment funds. In order to ensure the basic income of citizens, in such an exceptional situation, the processing of applications for income and benefits must take place in a timely and timely manner. The need for appropriations must therefore continue to be monitored and the resources made available, the functioning of decision-making and, where possible, the reduction of red tape. The committee will take a position on the issue of vaccines by emphasising the importance of research and the adequacy of research funding, for example, in the development of vaccines and, more broadly, in the improvement of health safety-related preparedness. There is also reason to explore the possibility of an arrangement that, for example, an international agreement will ensure the availability of a vaccine for global use and as fast production as possible in the event of a functioning vaccine being found, and, of course, to get this to Finland in a safe, high-quality and affordable way. With regard to the additional allocation for infectious diseases in the section of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the committee draws attention to the testing capacity. We consider it important to increase the testing capacity to around 10,000 daily tests, which, together with effective tracking of disease chains, will contribute to the suppression of the virus and further mitigation of restrictions. The low threshold testing is also estimated to effectively reduce the possible progression of the second and third wave of the virus. At the same time, it is important that the testing strategy is updated as necessary. However, the cost of testing and tracing the disease chains is clearly lower than the cost of disease. The Committee also draws attention to subsidies for health and social well-being. The situation in the organisation field may not be adequately covered by these proposed arrangements, so it must be considered by both the Ministry of Employment and the Economy and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health to be saved. Finally, this proposal for a decision of the Committee on Finance that Parliament accept the government proposal HE 43 and the supplementary HE 52, which include proposals for the second amending budget for 2020, and that Parliament adopt the above-mentioned statement, rejects the amending budget initiatives and decides that the second supplementary budget for 2020 will apply from 29 April. This report involved three opposition protests.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u3	Mr President! The second amending budget for the year will continue to respond to the acute crisis. The Christian Democratic Parliament mainly supports these government proposals. However, we have been critical of some of the shortcomings that have been identified and we want to tighten the government up, so we have tabled our own objection to this, which includes two increases in appropriations to the article of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and eleven statements. I would like to point out here that the basis for this debate is the Christian Democrats' objection No 3. I shall now briefly go over some of these points which we have wanted to pay particular attention to. Indeed, these increases relate to the operational expenditure of the Centre for the Safety and Development of the Pharmaceuticals sector, to which we propose an increase of EUR 2 million in clinical treatment and treatment research, and then to aid for health and social well-being, specifically for communities and foundations, an increase of EUR 20 million — the government proposes EUR 5 million. We believe that these social organisations and their work are particularly important when we are, at some point, trying to get out of this crisis. There are about a thousand of these social welfare organisations, and a significant proportion of them work in the social services sector. There are tens of thousands of jobs in the service production of these organisations, and service providers are precisely such associations and foundations and are therefore unable to apply for these subsidies to companies, and yet these are extremely important producers of rehabilitation, child protection, care for the elderly, substance abuse care, developmental disability care and housing services. These activities are mainly financed by the purchase services of Kela and hospital districts and municipalities, but due to the corona crisis some of this activity has already been suspended. Mr President! A few comments on these statements: First of all, the Christian Democrats see the importance of providing sufficient resources for the granting of these aids for businesses, which will enable these processes and the granting of aid to be speeded up, but then it is important that these aids for businesses should be allocated correctly and fairly and that they should be direct aid rather than development aid and loans. Mr President! I'm gonna go on... — The light of speech is flashing here, but I understand that these are five minutes long. [PresidentMattiVanhanen : 5 minutes,yes,there has been some mistake. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u4	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u6	Mr President! I propose that the vote be taken on the basis of a proposal which was rejected by the Assembly. The second amending budget currently under discussion by the government focuses on the additional needs of the interest rate situation and is broadly justified. However, there are significant shortcomings in the government proposal which urgently require correction. The Coalition Party proposes two key corrections to the amending budget. We are proposing an increase of EUR 200 million to the whole of testing, tracing and isolation, and this appropriation is intended to support actions to dismantle restrictions. We also present to restaurants and cafes a separate set of €200 million of restaurant and café support required by Parliament and urgently needed in the field. In addition, we are making proposals to increase the budget for police, culture and physical activity in line with the real need, and we are calling on the government to make proposals to ensure the availability of seasonal workers, the sustainability of local government finances and the functioning of corporate support schemes. In many ways, the Finnish corona measures have been bitten, and the number of infections has been curbed by the reduction of contacts. The Coalition Party has supported these key government policies and we are prepared to continue to support them if they are justified and properly dimensioned. However, as a result of these restrictions, nearly half a million Finns are under negotiation and tens of thousands of companies are on the verge of bankruptcy. The social barrier costs Finland approximately EUR 1 billion each week. We need to get out of the interest-rate crisis as quickly as possible, but in stages and in control. We need a precise plan from the government on how to phase out restrictions through testing, tracing, isolation and protective equipment. We are prepared to support the budget increases needed for the exit. In the third amending budget, the Government has announced that it will also bring the stimulus package to Parliament. But before the stimulus package, you have to make your own opening package for Finland. The importance of effective testing to get out of the corona epidemic cannot be underestimated, and that is why we are proposing a significant EUR 200 million additional allocation for testing. Many Nordic countries are tested multiple times as much as Finland, and the tests are also asymptomatic. The expertise and capacity of private health care to increase coronavirus testing must also be used to resolve the acute crisis situation in Finland in order to facilitate the situation in public health care. We also propose faster and more equitable financing models for companies and support for restaurants and cafes. And in our presentation, Business Finland works differently from the government's activities: we see it primarily as a support provider, i.e. a pipeline to finance these models, and not as the government has done that it is based on the legislation in force in Business Finland. We also pay attention to caring for the support of children and young people. We will require a support package for children and young people in the future. And especially when we move to normal conditions for schools and educational institutions, we see the importance of ensuring adequate support services for students and students. We are also very concerned about the availability of agricultural labour. The European Commission has called on EU countries to allow agricultural workers to enter despite the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. And we do not understand in the assembly who is opposed to the fact that from Ukraine, for example, these 15 000 necessary workers would be brought to Finland, for the EU will give them the support, and the Finnish Government has announced that only 1,500 are being taken here. Finnish municipalities also need support and help, and we are also concerned about this in the statements. Our objection includes a total of 15 proposals for statements, including one-off aid to farmers for the growing season. Such assistance is necessary to save security of supply and Finnish agriculture, especially since it seems that seasonal workers are
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u7	Mr President! This second amending budget directs significant additional investment in health, livelihoods, improving the situation in municipalities and also in business, culture and physical activity. It is important that there is enough of these business subsidies: the funding of companies must be taken care of. And, of course, it is also important to make that statement, which requires that these decisions to grant aid to businesses should be better able to withstand public criticism. No subsidies can be granted from the Ministry of Employment and the Economy for agriculture, including forestry and fisheries. They will not be eligible for subsidies for agriculture, and this is now being corrected in the first amending budget: EUR 30 million will be allocated to farm-linked business. And then we got a good sentence here in the report when it says: ‘The main category of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry is to support an agricultural undertaking, which also has a number of income-rich activities in the source of agricultural income,for example farm tourism. “ In other words, this covers all the associated industries that are taxed in connection with agriculture, for reasons of tax simplification. Another important point is this support for the fisheries industry. There was EUR 10 million for companies engaged in fisheries. And with a very large consensus, the committee added an allocation here for the use of fish in the manufacture of feed. It is also important that the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund should be able to support fishing in the future. Well, then, the corona crisis will of course have a very dramatic impact on the finances of the municipalities. There are two things beyond the others: one is an increase in healthcare expenditure and the other is a reduction in tax revenues. In practice, this increase in health care expenditure is mainly directed at specialised medical care, i.e. the financing of hospital districts, of which, of course, the municipalities are ultimately and always responsible. This increase in healthcare expenditure is to be financed 100% insofar as it is due to the interest rate. With regard to the reduction of tax revenues, EUR 547 million will now be reimbursed for tax losses for municipalities resulting from payment arrangements and tax deferrals. All in all, a third additional budget of at least EUR 1 billion is likely to be expected at the beginning of June, with a total of EUR 1 000 million now being taken into account by municipalities of EUR 547 million. There will be an appropriation for art and culture players, as well as for cultural events that will lose their ticket receipts, but the costs will largely be borne. Funds are also being allocated to theatres, orchestras and museums, as well as to national art institutions. It is very important to maintain the well-being of young people and the well-being of children that funds are also directed to sports, sports and social activities. The situation is sad in that this additional budget represents a significant need for additional net borrowing by the State, i.e. this second amending budget represents the need for net borrowing of EUR 9.4 billion. And all in all, after these two budgets and the actual budget, the net borrowing this year is estimated at around EUR 12.7 billion, and this is not the end of it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u8	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support Mr Heinonen's motion, that is to say this objection to the Assembly. As far as this draft amending budget and all that is concerned, it is certainly very good in the sense that, for example, these funds for health and functional capacity promotion for protective equipment and others, and of course these funds for sport, culture and so on, are good — and many others. In addition, what Mr Heinonen has said very well here, there is a need for a policy change to bring these seasonal workers here in order to ensure security of supply in agriculture and that part of it. Mr President! I actually asked to speak not only to support Mr Heinonen's proposal but also to comment on this business support issue and this situation in Business Finland. I have to say that I do not remember a case like this from the time I have been in Parliament. This simply cannot be done as it has been done in this area: only when more than 200 million — according to today’s data — has the Prime Minister said last night in a television interview that these criteria need to be changed, that this has not now become the case. Of course, this regulation should have been amended even before any of this search is even opened. This system has gone wrong in every way. I do not deny that many of those who must have needed it have been given help, and it is very good that, for example, tourism has been taken into account, which is one of the biggest sufferers in addition to restaurants and cafes, but this was not at all the way it was supposed to be. This was to be targeted at those who suffered from this corona. Now it became such a general distribution of money, a general development aid search, where everyone is able to put applications there, even from industries that have not in any way been affected by this interest rate. This is not how taxpayers' money can be distributed. However, we have a responsibility in this House to how the public money is spent as effectively as possible, even though it is now being distributed with billions of dollars in this decision, which is all that is being dealt with today — despite the fact that it is really important for people to be able to trust that it is responsible and that there are certain reasonable criteria for doing this. And I do not blame Business Finland, they have acted on the guidance that has been, but that guidance has been completely wrong. Above all, it would have been reasonable to go as the Coalition Party has always suggested, for example, to return the alves or to return them directly, or, for example, to temporarily abolish employers' contributions or some other fair and neutral system. If we go into such a support system — perhaps it was a mistake in the first place to go to that side — then, for example, it would have been possible to tailor it to the industry first, even if it had been given to those industries whose activity was virtually stopped because of the restrictions on this corona crisis, and then perhaps later, even if it was opened up to industrial companies, because this is still a delay for industry and others, for example, for the various companies in the ict sector and others, who will certainly also face difficulties through the corona, but for whom it will be delayed. This should have been done in such a way as to preserve justice. Now it happened that those who were best qualified to fill out these applications received the money. Some of them are justified, some may not be so justified. This also means that these companies are in an unequal position, because even those who are competitors to each other, some have received, others have not. Some have not even applied because they have thought that this is meant for those who have suffered from the corona and believe that they themselves are not. Then another company in the same sector has submitted this application and has received this funding. In other words, this does not fully correspond to what was intended and does not correspond to what was said here to Parliament at the time that this money was granted. It was suggested at the time that this was specifically targeted at the companies affected by the interest rate, and this has not happened. This is a very bad mistake and one that must be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u9	Mr President! I agree with Mr Satos on a number of issues relating to the activities of Business Finland. It has not done the best it can in this exceptional situation in which we are now living. For this reason, I am very pleased that the Committee on Finance has taken a strong position and a statement in which it requires the Government to prepare amendments to the regulation and guidelines on corporate subsidies linked to the interest rate crisis in a fair manner and to improve the conditions for businesses to operate in these exceptional situations, which are currently in existence, but also after this corona epidemic, thereby strengthening Finland's economic and employment situation. In that respect, the committee has also done a good job in this regard. I have also been pleased that the government has now intervened strictly in this situation. Mr President! The second amending budget of the year is historically large. The government's support for the various sectors of our society shows that Finland is committed to securing the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond the crisis caused by the corona virus. We are working to ensure that the impact on people's everyday lives is as small and as short as possible. We are working to enable health care and public authorities to operate with sufficient resources throughout the crisis. ‘All shall be regarded as ‘a message to With the decisions now taken, we are investing in people's health and livelihood, improving the situation in municipalities, saving businesses, safeguarding the rural economy, as well as in sports and culture. These measures will largely support those vulnerable players who are most in need of support at this stage. While we support our citizens, businesses and municipalities beyond the acute crisis, at the same time, we must decide, alongside the stimulus measures, to build the future. In its opinion, the Ministry of Finance stresses that the burden of the crisis must be shared in a socially and economically sustainable way, without forgetting the fairness between generations. The burden of debt should not be left to younger generations. Mr President! As part of this amending budget, the Government supports parents who remain at home and those who have been quarantined when they arrive in Finland because of the corona virus. This proposal provides security for many parents who have acted in accordance with the recommendations of the Board of Directors and have remained unpaid at home to care for their child entitled to contact education in early childhood education or basic education during exceptional circumstances. The average amount to be paid to an elder would be EUR 723 per month. For example, for a single parent in the low-paid service sector, this support is a necessary source of income. Not all parents have the opportunity to work at a distance, which may make it the only option to remain unpaid. This situation placed families in a hugely unequal position and, if prolonged, this situation could have had a significant impact on inequality. That is why I am very pleased with this proposal, because with this help we can help more families to overcome the crisis. Mr President! The interest crisis has shaken the economy of many sole entrepreneurs. In particular, the cash flow of many people working in the services sector has decreased significantly and there is great concern about their own financial situation and the family's financial situation. In the first place, it has been a good thing that sole entrepreneurs have been able to apply for unemployment benefit, but only through its help have they been unable to cover the running costs of business. I am therefore pleased that this budget also includes an amount of EUR 250 million for the provision of state aid to municipalities and for the support of self-employed persons. The sole entrepreneur may apply for a subsidy of EUR 2000 from the municipality to cover expenditure incurred in the pursuit of the activity. The aid is intended primarily for those whose economic activity has been significantly weakened by the corona virus. Now that this mandate has been given to the municipalities and these applications are being dealt with, it is absolutely essential to be able to support self-employed people and to reduce red tape in order to make this genuinely possible for all.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u10	Mr President! This amending budget is the second step on the road to an economic solution to the corona crisis presented by the government. These packages are always growing as we move forward, because the needs have grown. After all, the forthcoming draft amending budget will be in May, and this will soon be at the door, and it will bring further relief, for example, to the situation in the municipalities. We are now taking the first step with half a billion dollars in the way that municipalities survive this loss of tax revenue, and then, in May, about one billion dollars of aid has been promised to the municipalities. This is very important, because in a crisis, municipalities are responsible for people's well-being, services, education, the solutions to many of the everyday problems people are currently experiencing, whether they are small children who suffer from not being able to go to school with friends, or the elderly who are alone in the middle of a crisis. That is why it is really important that we now take the first big step in supporting municipalities and at the same time know that more are coming. People cannot be left alone in the midst of this crisis, and that is why it is really important to support municipalities. There has been a worrying message in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that, once we have given the opportunity to abolish services so that resources can be transferred to the treatment of the corona crisis, unfortunately, in many places the services have been phased out prematurely and there have also been activities on the list, such as young people's mental health services, which should not have been abolished in this crisis. It is understandable that the financial distress of municipalities causes painful decisions to be made, but these should be avoided. That is why it is important for the government to provide funding for municipalities now, and, of course, the municipal economy must continue to be taken care of. For example, whenever proposals are made that significant tax reliefs should be made for companies, it should be noted that it is directly visible in the municipalities. And then we need to ensure that the state is able to compensate for those tax losses quickly and effectively to the municipalities, so that we do not see the unfortunate sudden solutions, that we start to drive down the hugely important services for people because of financial difficulties. Which means there's always two sides to the coin. It is perfectly understandable that, in this situation, we want to ease the tax burden on people and businesses. At the same time, however, we must remember that taxes are used to finance hugely important services, whose need in the midst of this crisis has increased rather than diminished. And that is why these activities must be done in a prudent and responsible manner, while at the same time quickly. This is a demanding equation now, isn't it? We know that many people need support, should be quick, but at the same time fair. A lot has been said about companies; I would like to comment on the support situation for organisations. After all, Finland is the promised country of the organisations. We know that we have a huge number of organisations working in different sectors. An additional EUR 5 million is now being introduced for social welfare and health organisations. This is very important, because these organisations provide those helpful phones, tättättäpalvelut, which, unfortunately, help those victims of increased domestic violence in an acute situation when they do not know who to talk to. At the same time, it must of course be stressed that when you have received its low-threshold service, you must, of course, contact the police and, of course, the municipal social and health services in order to receive additional assistance. But we know that these low-threshold services are the first target for many people to be contacted, and that is why ensuring the resources of these organisations is extremely important. It should be stressed that many organisations have been at the forefront of the development of the very remote services that are needed in this period of time. And it is probably the case that many people can even learn on the public side from that organization, and that is why it is right that their activities are supported, since they are doing such valuable work for the health and well-being of Finns. Let's make it brief. As far as business subsidies are concerned, I recall that seven weeks ago, when these were so much needed, the message shared by Parliament was that we must act as quickly as possible. The opposition also called for a faster pace for the aid to be allocated immediately. It was clear at the time that if the regulation were to be turned on, it would take at least a few minutes, that is to say, to slow companies down their access to aid. And that is why it was done so that immediately, and then, as a result of irregularities, the instructions were clarified. Now it has also become clear that the regulations will be more precise. When this was discussed in the Committee on Finance, it became clear that many of these worst cases occurred at the very beginning of the time when there was a great deal of urgency and pressure and since then the system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u11	Honorable Speaker! Indeed, this is a record extra budget. Of course, this is a bit of a sad record, because it is due to the fact that the income side of the state here is deteriorating quite considerably. However, the committee has managed to make this report very harmoniously, and we have had no more remarkable problems. In fact, when we look at the previous additional budget, we have quite agreed on the timetable for the measures, the size and the size of the measures have been discussed. In general, the procedure is where the main disputes arise, that is, how some subsidies are distributed at some point. Of course, it has to be said that if we had realised that this could happen, it would of course have been the case in committee before. But now that we look at the economy so far, there are good indications, however, that the interim reports of these big listed companies are not as bad as they could be, that is, there have been quite good results there, and it would seem that exports in some way are drawn up and order stocks have also been at a good level. That's positive news. The problem is, of course, in Finland now that our own domestic demand and, among other things, the demand for services and the tourism sector. That's where we have problems. We have then made an alternative, an objection, and it is here in Amendment No 1, which is appended to the report, and I will then make this proposal as a basis for discussion. This includes 19 proposals for statements and two amendments to paragraph 2 and, in fact, the key points here are that the government should now freeze all non-legislative expenditure for this year before Parliament has re-examined the budget, because it is somehow curbing the expenditure side of the state. Then we are concerned about the remote work of the courts and the prosecution department: the hardware and software should be taken care of. As far as agriculture is concerned, we would have to increase support for primary production and for the production of protein crops throughout the EU. Three-quarters of all protein is imported from outside the EU. This is a bad thing. Then, if we go into this support policy, we will be distributing subsidies through Business Finland and through others. In fact, the aid distributed by Ely Centres and municipalities has not become much of a reproach, but Business Finland’s support has become a reproach. The Ely Centres share two tons of it, and then if Business Finland had divided 5,000 for each person who works at the company, then even if the company with three employees had received a maximum of 15,000. There might not have been such a big fuss about these things as it is at present. We are still of the opinion in these statements of objection that we should pay attention to the problem of payoff and the removal of incentive traps, for example by means of a reduction in labour income. Some form of wage supplement would have to be paid to people working in nursing. It would be good if this were to be considered in the new additional budget. With regard to the payment of unemployment benefits, it is proposed that this could be done now without a personal labour market policy opinion. Then we would feel that the government should encourage and recommend the use of masks and gloves, for example, in public transport and events where such exposure to the disease can be obtained. Therefore, if you think about a match event, you might even require that 1000 people could get there, if they use such masks, and the teams could then sell themselves and make them customized masks for their supporters. This would be a good source of income for the team, too. We would have to have the situation forward, knowledge and equipment for the declassification of public spaces. It is still not necessarily understood how big this is, how many public facilities should be disinfected if the epidemic starts to spread too quickly. And then to the end, we would have to invest in municipal child protection, that is to say, we would have to increase investment in future additional budgets in order to deal with this issue. At the end of the day, I will say that:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u12	Mr President! There has been reference here in several speeches to the fact that this is an historicly large amending budget, and it certainly is, the scale is unimaginable compared to the normal amending budgets, we are talking about many billions of euros. We also understand that the situation is absolutely exceptional and we now have to invest in this way. The Minister of Finance has also said this, and it has been said several times on the part of the government that we have a manageable debt ratio, and it is, even at the present level, at a very strong level compared to the analogue countries. In fact, these famous EMU criteria meet only three countries: Luxembourg, Estonia and Finland. And in that sense, Finland’s public debt is not unreasonable. I am not encouraging an increase in debt, but in this situation it has been absolutely necessary. Some speakers have also expressed the idea that the government programme should be changed, that we should start talking about operating lists and the need for surgery in the future. Now is not the time to talk about these things. In the long run, the balance of public finances can be well managed when we manage the economy well. We must now resolve this corona crisis and also resolve the economic crisis that has been built around it. My special contribution was to listen to Mr Satose's speech in my own room. Many of the speeches have referred to the fact that this funding from Business Finland has not gone quite well. They have not received aid that is most in need of support in relation to this corona crisis, but support has been given to development projects in line with Business Finland's guidelines. Development projects aim to look beyond this corona crisis into the future, it has been the Business Finland approach. When I listened to Arto Satose’s speech, I was quite overwhelmed by this great amount of hindsight, which was presented here by the Assembly representative. And this Business Finland and funding have been evaluated in a similar way by all the other members of the Coalition Party. Among other things, Mr Heinonen's speech made references to the fact that the Assembly felt that the guidelines should be different from what has now been chosen as an approach, and this has been referred to. Mr President! I remember very well when decisions were made here a few weeks back about choosing this Business Finland. I even have the impression that the assembly was strongly driving and saying in several speeches that Business Finland is the right place in this context. It was precisely the argument that was used when it was known that Business Finland provided funding for development in order to find new forms of action in the future, that it specifically helps to develop society to meet the challenges of the future. These were the speeches made by the members of the Assembly at the time and they supported the government's proposal in this respect. It is pure hindsight at this stage to say that this now went with the sabluuna that we did not get to the companies, workers and entrepreneurs most affected by the corona virus, which was the result of following the legal basis on which Business Finland is making its funding. I agree with the criticism that we need to think about this from a new angle, yes. But there is no point in getting wise now that the government has acted differently from the opposition, which, like the rest of us, supported the fact that we now need to move quickly, that financial support must be provided to companies and that there is an existing instrument, Business Finland is one of them. In this respect, I would like honesty when the opposition criticises the government. We all see that, unfortunately, mistakes are also made in a critical situation, and we learn from these, but this kind of hindsight in this Chamber seems unreasonable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u14	Honorable Speaker! Of course, it is very important that the government is committed to securing the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond the crisis caused by the corona virus. These guidelines are also reflected in the draft amending budget, which makes important contributions to health, livelihoods, the situation of municipalities, business, culture and physical activity. President! I also very much appreciate the fact that the Committee on Finance has drawn attention to the ongoing business support debate, i.e. to the fact that business subsidies would be targeted fairly and compensate for the economic impact of the pandemic, would improve the chances of continuing and developing business activities and promoting employment in general. I would also like to thank Minister Lintilä for launching the preparatory work on this subject. Aid to enterprises was already increased in the first amending budget and in the present proposal there is also a significant increase in aid to enterprises. In view of both these amending budgets, the additional funding allocated to enterprises will already amount to EUR 1.9 billion. It is a huge sum and it is therefore essential that it is targeted correctly. The forthcoming draft amending budget for May will also include measures to strengthen the local government economy, as well as measures to support the rapid recovery of the economy, thus contributing to overcoming the crisis. This is a good thing. Now, at this point, there is a reduction of more than EUR 500 million in compensation for municipal tax revenue, which will certainly help this year's survival. President! Just a few more important remarks. I am pleased that artistic and cultural activities are targeted to compensate for, among other things, ticket revenue and loss of operations due to cancellation. Those losses, as we know, are enormous. In the future, it is important to monitor the need for support and prepare to allocate additional resources in a situation where summer events will have to be cancelled due to an epidemic. Finland is the promised country of summer events and, for example, in my home town of Seinäjoki there are plenty of them: the Provinssi, the Tango Market, there is movement, there is Solar Sound. I hope that the plight of the organisers of events will be eased fairly and fairly, so that even after this nightmare they will be able to act. President! A word about the sports field: it is certainly not clear to any of us that the sports and sports field and, above all, the social and organizational work need intensive care. That is why it is excellent at this point that an additional budget of just over EUR 19 million is allocated to sport, which will enable grants to be given to sports and social activities as well as to the activities of sports training centres. I also hope that, if this additional oxygen is not sufficient, the government will be prepared for further action. The Committee on Finance also considered this line important and stressed the importance of taking physical activity into account as part of the well-being of children and young people. That's a good point. President! There are certain cornerposts in Finnish society that should not be allowed to sink. One of the most important is the strong civic and organizational work in the field of physical activity and culture. Even in difficult times, the people need both bread and culture and exercise.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u15	Mr President! I'm in favour of a representative. The protests of the Finns of Finland presented by Vähämäki, both changes in paragraphs and all 19 statements, of which I would like to draw up four examples. 1. The proposal for a statement is important for justice: the government must take into account the weak state of play in the remote working systems of courts and prosecutors, initiate measures to ensure that the systems are functioning properly and provide adequate funding for the necessary equipment and system procurement. Then this 5th draft statement is very important for companies, and I have already tabled a written question on it 3.4. It ‘requires that the guarantees and commissions to be charged to FinnveraOyj’scompaniesfor guarantees on crisis loans granted by banks are reasonable’. And then, for a third example, I would like to take the important proposal for a statement for the unemployed: ‘The Commission requires that the government immediately prepares a proposal for a fixed-term law which would allow unemployment benefits to be paid as an interest in an epidemic without the current individual “ Then, for a fourth example, I would like to refer to the draft statement 18, which is important for the State: ‘The State requires that the Government instructs the Treasury to further accelerate the timetable for the issuance of debt securities in order to make use of the current favourable situation and “ And even if Mr Harkimo is not here, I will end by bringing up the joker, namely, by the end of the year, up to 44 per cent of Finnish travel agencies have been wound up according to the membership polls. This is where the restaurant sector gets — although not enough, however, it has been taken into account — but the tourism industry has been completely forgotten. Travel agencies and tourism companies are still vaccinating, in particular, these legal-obliged reimbursements. There is usually talk of internationalisation here, and money is often found to run abroad, but now these Finnish companies should be saved, which enable internationalisation in general. It would be good if the Minister were here when we deal with the amending budget, because immediate action is needed here, but now that the Minister is not here, I am going to leave an initiative for action. But in general, with regard to this amending budget, I can thank the Committee on Finance for a good climate of cooperation and also for giving us instructions this morning on updating and making fair business Finland's aid practices. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u16	Mr President! It has become very clear that the interest subsidies paid to companies have not in all respects gone to the right addresses, to those entrepreneurs who have suffered the most from the corona crisis: at the same time, there are many companies which are now approaching us, who would have earned the aid but have not received the aid. We are currently in a situation where businesses are in very serious difficulties in a very large number of sectors. We all understand that in this situation we must act quickly and not only when a wave of bankruptcy has already swept over Finland. It is good that, in the Committee on Budgets, we have been able to deal quickly with the additional budget. This is already the second corona emergency amending budget. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to these problems in the granting and implementation of these aids. We forewarned that there are problems with the criteria for subsidies, because they require business development and only 20% of Business Finland's subsidies can be used for fixed costs, even though these fixed costs and the acute cash crisis are the problem here. Companies need money for cashiers, rents, just for the survival of their daily lives, and it is the idea, for many companies, that there could be resources to develop activities in this situation. It is great that some companies have the opportunity to do so, but it should now be possible to channel these subsidies into coping with the daily lives of those companies that are in the greatest difficulty as a result of the restrictions on the corona. In this amending budget, the Coalition Party has proposed additional resources for restaurants and cafes, a separate direct contribution of EUR 200 million. It is necessary because of restrictions and also for reasons of principle, because, as the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy well stated in their own statements and reports, when the state intervenes in such a violent manner in the area of freedom to conduct a business — with good reason, health protection, but still — then these losses should be compensated for by entrepreneurs. At the same time, it is important to take into account the fact that there are other sectors that are suffering. One example has just come from a bakery entrepreneur who said that they have lost practically very little order because of the fact that they have just had cafes and restaurants and various service entrepreneurs, and so they will now have to consider how the future will work out if there is not an urgent need for some kind of support to help in this situation. The Coalition Party has proposed, among other things, the refund of VAT at the beginning of the year. It would be fair and would certainly be targeted at those companies that are in serious trouble. With these words, I agree with Mr Heinonen's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u17	Mr President! Yes, good work has been done in the Committee on Finance, together with the opposition, as the opposition has become praiseworthy for this sympathetic debate — both Vähämäki and Grahn-Laasonen have raised this. But there is this historic amending budget: 5.8 billion in revenue will be reduced, and 3.6 in expenditure will be increased, and 9.4 billion in all will be increased by our borrowing. The positive thing about this is, of course, that when the municipal field has already been in poor oxygen and is, especially now that the additional costs of the interest rate are coming, 547 million will be given to the municipalities. It is very important that they then focus on these very different situations, as far as exceptional circumstances are concerned. It is estimated that this will cost municipalities some 600 million. Especially since these municipalities are now also involved in health care districts, it must be said in relation to these social welfare adventures, which various governments have done in the past, that our health care districts and their balance sheets are not in very good shape anyway, so that it is also appropriate to have direct support for what will then be considered there. A few withdrawals: It is indeed important in Section 30 for agriculture and forestry to take account of the other sectors of agriculture, such as farm tourism, which cannot be covered by these subsidies. Similarly, this support for fisheries is important when we produce, among other things, processed fish and feed from fish waste and fish. In other words, security of supply is being strengthened, and protein crops should also be grown in Finland, as mentioned here in our report. Then these business subsidies, which have been much discussed in Question Time today, are the fact that, after this budget and additional funding, we have a couple of billion, or 1.9 billion, of which are directed to companies. It is a state of will for all of us to reduce the wave of bankruptcy and to see that these healthy companies, after this interest rate, continue to improve and develop their activities. It is great that this new aid, which is directed through the municipalities, is two tons. I hope that there will be enough active and good business advisers in the local economic development offices to ensure that this is well distributed. This new programme for recapitalisation of industrial investment is also very welcome. Then to the Ely Centres and also to all these bureaucracy managers, I hope to be able to cope with it and succeed in it, even though it is snowing into the house for these officials. I myself have been dealing with about a thousand different requests for funding and I know what it's like to do and work there. You can't always hit 10 with a dart. 20 to 80 % in general [Leena Sea interlude] But the biggest concern here, which actually scratches the heart, is this lynching mentality towards these entrepreneurs, which has come in the public media and the rest of the world, and I hope that at least we will not add to it. Another message in the direction of the media is to use the right arguments. Indeed, corporate subsidies, which Business Finland distributes here, are not the kind of money that they come directly to the account. 70% are given in advance, but then we have to prove against receipts that it has gone to the right targets, which is also what we are doing to ensure these. Yes, the right thing has been done in what the Minister said there, that we should go and find out, and I am sure that the results will also come from internal investigations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u18	Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic has been well controlled in Finland and the restrictive measures have been bitten. For this we should thank both the Government, Parliament and Finns, who have followed the restrictions and recommendations largely well. This amending budget is really needed, because the effects and losses of the interest rate on the income side are calculated in billions, and on the expenditure side, on the other hand, the interest rate crisis is increased by both the municipalities and the state. The amending budget contains a lot of very good and worthy additions. The targeting of business subsidies has, of course, led to a lot of criticism. What companies now need quickly is to get money into the cash register quickly. The development aid granted through Business Finland is certainly very good in itself, and it is quite unjustified to criticise the one who, according to the criteria, distributes it. On the other hand, it is quite right to ask why the criteria have not been examined or, on the other hand... I myself went through those regulations and laws that define Business Finland and determine their subsidies, and at least there is no ban on the use of means. Now that everyone knows that different companies are facing this crisis differently, some earlier and others already now — or, in fact, three months ago, even before the restrictions come into force — it would be very important to try to target support, particularly for those who have been experiencing the cash crisis for a long time. Sometimes the sense of proportion also disappears from this debate. Of course, EUR 100,000 sounds like a lot of money, but the fixed costs of many medium-sized enterprises which have applied for such aid — whether they have received it or not — are largely up to EUR 100,000 a month. If the income is zero, it will be of little help, but that is not what these subsidies are intended for in themselves, but for the planning of new business, and that is precisely the challenge. That is why the Coalition Party has called for the refund of VAT payments on the one hand and also of excise duties on the other. Let us hope that this proposal is quickly taken up by the government. Prime Minister Marin said yesterday that now that the epidemic has already been reasonably contained, the government will be considering the dismantling of restrictions and its timetable in the near future. Yesterday, the Coalition Party opened a discussion on Finland's path out of restrictive measures. It is based on extensive testing — to which money now comes in this amending budget — tracking, isolation and also treatment. In other words, our opening also includes preparation for the wider need for protective equipment. Now, from previous situations, we know that the demand and need for protective equipment has taken everyone by surprise and that no one has been able to prepare for the need that is now needed for home care, care, everywhere — for every patient, new equipment should be used. However, this need has been known for some time now — at least now for a month, even two — and now that it is known that many other countries or almost all countries that have begun to dismantle restrictions have at the same time also recommended the use of more protective equipment, I really hope to the government that preparations are now in place and that protective equipment will be prepared in advance when the restrictions are lifted. Mr President! The Government's second amending budget contains very necessary additional support for both physical and cultural activities. It is now particularly important to invest in those actors who contribute to people's survival in today's everyday life but then lay the foundations for the future. Support for sports and sports from the state is now close on EUR 20 million. However, it is known from the study that the losses amount to EUR 81 million, and this is only within the scope of the activities of the third sector. The Coalition Party has therefore proposed that we add EUR 80 million to the grants for sport and sports. The costs of non-mobility are very high for society — calculated in billions — and I therefore hope that Parliament will continue to consider that these actors will also be able to cope better with this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u19	Mr President! First of all, I would like to support the proposal made by Mrs Essayah and the proposals for statements under protest 3 by the Christian Democrats, which total 11 and also two changes in appropriations. Mr Essayah presented that objection in detail, but I would like to make a few withdrawals from it. First of all, I would like to start with this testing and the extension of testing to people with low symptoms and asymptomaticities. I have watched this episode and this corona epidemic as a largely long-term health care professional. I can say that testing, tracing, quarantine, mouth-to-mouth protection and keeping distance are absolutely essential in preventing and overcoming the spread of this corona epidemic, and also in allowing us to gradually, gradually dismantle restrictions and gradually unwind normal lives as quickly as possible. In this project, the tracking of the transmission chains must also be accompanied by shortening and cutting off the transmission chains. In testing, it means that not only those with mild symptoms but also those who are completely asymptomatic in quarantine must be tested in order to detect asymptomatic carriers of the virus and their contact can be traced quickly before they can infect more people. Unfortunately, there are no ministers here, but I would like to communicate with the government and ask whether this testing could at last become more aggressive and also be directed to the field, so that those who have been exposed with no symptoms are also tested, so that they can be traced back to the contacts they had made before quarantine and be able to cut off the supply chains and to deal with a more effective epidemic. Furthermore, I would like to appeal to the government whether the government could contribute to actually getting tested on the ground, because it is still very difficult to get tested in many places. This is despite the fact that thousands of tests per week on the weekly test capacity are not used. At the moment, it has been said that the test capacity is approximately 5000 tests a day. It should be doubled, but there is already a huge part of the current number of tests that will not be used because customers, citizens, will not be able to get to the tests. I would still like to increase this testing. There are also many municipal decision-makers here. I listened to Helsinki's policy when they said, with regard to the treatment facilities and to customers going to new treatment sites, that they would only be placed under quarantine-like conditions for two weeks and that the situation would be monitored. Of course, before anyone moves to a new place of care or a 24-hour place of residence where treatment is generally provided, they must be tested for this virus. No treatment facility will go that way, and any other potential carrier of a serious virus will not change the place until it is tested whether it is possible to carry such a virus. In addition, of course, those two weeks of quarantine conditions must be continued until the end and tested again if symptoms occur. In this context, I would also like to highlight these protective equipment. In addition to special medical care for those treating corona patients, basic health care, outpatient care and also these care facilities for the elderly need to be equipped with adequate protective equipment to avoid infecting their patients. We now know that the majority of the infected, about three quarters, are under 60 years of age, starting with children under kindergarten age, but the deaths are over 60 years of age, with the exception of a few cases. We should really pay serious attention to this. Two other points that we raised here in our protest: there are more euros for the Centre for Safety and Development in the pharmaceutical sector specifically for the clinical trial of corona patients because it is important, at the same time as we treat patients, to study them, and then there are these social welfare organisations. Companies have received and are receiving large subsidies,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u20	Mr President! I would like to thank the representatives of Grahn-Laasonen and Multala for their very balanced and good contributions in relation to this acute situation. When listening to Question Time and the speeches made by the strong members of the Assembly there, they, as it were, washed their hands on this whole process, bearing in mind, however, that they have been involved in the adoption of the supplementary budget at the time in which these granting powers have been granted, and they have also said in their protests: ‘From the point of view of small businesses’. [Sari Multala requests reply ] Mr President! For that test: I must agree with what Mr Tanus said earlier. In my opinion, it is absolutely unnecessary to put money into the amending budget to test if not to test it. There is constant communication and feedback from Finns, especially from the nursing industry, that there is a need to be tested — for example, if you have a corona or suspect a corona and your spouse works in the nursing sector, you still cannot get to the tests. At the beginning of April, these amounts were a little over a thousand, from which they gradually went up to a thousand and a half. Even at the moment, I think they're under 3,000 anyway. We constantly present quantities here, sometimes talking about 5,000 and now up to 10,000. We might as well put 50,000 in there, but it won't help anything if they don't have those rules and that culture there changes and now they don't get people tested as if they needed to. Otherwise, we will not achieve the objectives set for this strategy and the prevention of this disease as a whole. It calls for the testing which Mr Tanus has credited for. There has also been a lot of talk here about sport and, above all, about the fact that yesterday decisions were taken on the limitations and follow-up of events of more than 500 people. Now many teams and clubs are waiting to know if sports shows, for example, could be played without an audience. This is very noteworthy that they too are in severe financial difficulties there and need solutions as to how to move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I noticed that there was a willingness to be debated, but under these circumstances we are not going to go to these debatts, but we are going to continue with the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u22	Mr President! In my previous speech, I briefly presented our opposition to the Assembly and its measures. I would like to raise a few points and a few points in this debate. Today, during Question Time, we had a debate on the situation of business subsidies, among other things, and it was quite clear that the government has deliberately chosen these specific measures to distribute corporate subsidies. After all, the House discussed company subsidies, and we raised the concern at the meeting that these planned, selected models, as implemented by the government, are quite rigid. I then listed the criteria for these searches on the Business Finland side: reorientation, wider development needs, the development of a subcontracting network, the reorganisation of production, the development of products and services and the strengthening of know-how. As a general rule, it was then found that the grant cannot be granted for the normal business of the company. At least I still remember clearly how I asked these companies what they needed that money for at the time. They need it precisely for that usual activity. We have a huge number of companies that have been working perfectly for years, even decades, until just over a month ago. We also need the majority of these companies after this crisis, and that is why it is extremely important that these subsidies should now go where they are most needed. On 2 April, the Board of Directors replied that Business Finland should interpret these criteria in a broad way, but that cannot be done in our system, and Business Finland could not and could not have done so either. Business Finland distributed interest subsidies just as the government of Prime Minister Sanna Marin made possible and through legislation required. So it is not business Finland's fault, let alone Finnish entrepreneurs who have received support. A good policy, and above all a good opposition policy, is to offer alternatives, and we have raised the issue of the VAT refund at the beginning of the year, and we are also presenting it in the context of this amending budget. It would be a quick way to help companies overcome this acute cash crisis, the fall in turnover. The restaurant sector is particularly highlighted here. We are concerned about how long it will take to obtain direct support for the restaurant and café sector, as Parliament has unanimously required. Major problems include tourism, but also school transport companies, for example. Then, to the very end, Mr President, I would like to raise two major concerns which have been raised here today: The second is sports. In sport, these additional savings that the government is proposing will not be enough. That is why the Coalition Party proposes 80 million additional funding, support, sports and sports from there to bigger events and series. I believe that, now that the summer has been decided to cancel a large part of the sporting events, the sum will be there for the 100 million or so of the Coalition Party, what is meant by this side. We have big mass events going on, but we also have all the events of children and young people, and it does not save these events and clubs that can at least be arranged in part without an audience. And when the events of more than 500 people are banned from the summer too, it means an extremely big blow to various festival organizers, summer event organizers, and I calculated with one of Finland’s leading musicians that their summer gigs — he went through the whole industry — would be about 40 million, when it involves light technology and other measures, if we wanted to,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u23	Mr President! Indeed, the committee worked closely and in good cooperation on the historic draft amending budget. The most important investments in the performance are made in health, livelihood, improving the situation in municipalities, business, culture and sports. A total of EUR 1.9 billion has been allocated to enterprises in the first and second amending budgets. It is now important to ensure that public confidence is maintained that subsidies are targeted specifically at companies struggling with the corona crisis and companies that bring effective solutions to the corona crisis, e.g. by launching the manufacture of protective equipment in Finland, even if they build online platforms or applications to track infection. In other words, development measures can and must also be funded. There are many sectors where businesses are affected by the interest rate crisis. When allocating support, it is essential to take account of the employment impact of companies and the continuity of their activities after the crisis. At this point, it is also important to recognise the need for support for associations and organisations which have not yet been able to benefit from these existing subsidies. According to the information received by the Committee, many shortcomings and inappropriate allocation of aid have already been addressed, but it is very important that the aid criteria can be updated as EU legislation permits, and that development measures can also be used to share aid to overcome the crisis. The committee proposes a statement to the Parliament that ‘the Member State requires that rapid changes to the Regulation and immediate guidance be prepared,in order to ensure that the aid to businesses in the context of the crisis is properly targeted,that they compensate for In addition, it is important to note that, in accordance with Parliament's requirements, separate support is being prepared to facilitate the closed restaurant sector by means of parliamentary decisions, which is not yet included in this draft amending budget. It is also necessary to monitor the adequacy and distribution of the whole to different sectors in order to survive. Any means, such as the alves refund shown, should be considered soon. A few other comments on the amending budget: I hope that additional funding for sport and culture will find ways to organise leisure activities for children and young people during the summer. This funding should also be considered in the context of the third amending budget. The work now requires innovation when major events, such as football tournaments or patrol camps, have been cancelled for the summer. As regards the financing of municipalities, the amending budget includes compensation for delays in tax revenues. The committee stresses that the compensation promised in the third amending budget, which is sorely needed by the municipalities, is about one billion, or perhaps more, if necessary, allocated to the costs generated by the interest rate and the loss of tax revenue. This takes into account the different situations of municipalities caused by the pandemic. The Committee also considers it important to increase the testing capacity to 10,000 daily tests, according to experts, which, together with effective tracking of disease chains, will contribute to the suppression of the virus. Access to the test must be easy for everyone. Several Members have already raised these current difficulties. Attention should be paid in the future to the speed of obtaining results and to the rapid reach of those exposed to infection. This will enable us to restore the functions of society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u24	Mr President! I support the amendments tabled by Mrs Vähämäki and Mr Junnila on the objection of the Finns of Peru. There are very good additions here. I will now bring up a few of these. The draft statement of opposition from the Finns Party has drawn attention to the remote working equipment of the courts and prosecutors and to the weak financial situation. The Committee on Legal Affairs took this for its own business, according to the information that was published a short time ago, that the courts and prosecutors are on the scene because they cannot hold sittings. We made a record of this and a message to the Ministry of Justice 3.4. This was unanimous. All the representatives of the government parties were there, including Mr Ovaska, and he has just spoken about this, but now that I look at this amending budget, you know there is no euro yen here. That is why I am very surprised that there was no additional funding for this, because the Minister of Justice has also spoken about this in public. And if we think about our public security and justice, how can we expect criminal matters to progress if prosecutors and courts cannot carry out their duties, the equipment does not work, the remote equipment does not work and the cases are congested? We now have on that list a change in bankruptcy law and a change in enforcement law. We need resources. We here easily create more tasks, but quite often, and almost as a rule, we forget the resources of the court. I've been working in court for years, and when the government shows, it's been a trend for decades that "no resource impact". Of course it will have resource implications if there are more tasks to be done, and I am rather surprised that even in the Committee on Budgets there was no support from those parties that unanimously supported this — unanimously — in the Committee on Legal Affairs. For that I am very, very sorry and amazed. Then there is one point — the proposal for a statement by the people of Peru — that the Finns of Peru started to take immediate steps to ensure food self-sufficiency and security of supply, among other things by tightening up the regulations and increasing the support for primary production, that is, farmers and producers who are there in everyday life and who always have less and less money left for them. This was not even supported by the centre, the peasants' party. Well, I'm surprised you can't get this kind of thing through. The True Finns suggested that this funding could be taken, for example, to consider whether this WHO funding would be increased by EUR 5.5 million. This appeared here in Parliament in just a few days, but, for example, as I mentioned earlier, there is no money available to the courts despite a number of requests. But in public, the Minister of Justice will then tell the courts how he is concerned about their work situation. The Finns have protested that, for example, 100 million could be cut from multilateral development cooperation. That's where the funding would come from. Today in Question Time I asked the Minister From Lintilä on these business issues and corporate subsidies. He told me that I should get a little involved when I throw things like this when I said that — about a month ago Lintilä said that “we need a fire brigade, let the court come later ” — a fire brigade trip. He then told me that I would be better acquainted with things. Well, this isn't what I'm saying. This is the message of Mr Gustafsson, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, yesterday. I have not drawn this conclusion, but he has, and if he is concerned about this matter and I repeat it in the Chamber and I am told that you should be more sensitive and detailed, it is no wonder that the citizens are really upset. This is going on all the time. There's been a lot of Security of Supply here. They're in the police investigation. And then there's Minister Pekonen's masquerade. Ohio talks about bringing refugees from camps — they may have corona. Minister Harakka spoke this morning about the climate emissions of transport in the Aamulehti, and we really have a billion-dollar shot in the public finance plan on such a subject as the project “The larger world of Finland”. Yes, I must say quite frankly that it is no wonder that the citizens are quite perplexed about how their affairs and money are handled. Listen to this message, and do not just move it so that this is not the way it is and must not be blamed or reproached.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u25	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here, and perhaps one of the most forceful speeches, and also the clearest ones, was Mr Heinonen's speech, as he usually does. The only thing that interferes in some way with a half - enlightened listener is that he approaches the truth with very flexible creativity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u26	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u27	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u28	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u30	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u31	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u32	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u33	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u34	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u35	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u36	There is still no way to go to Debat, but I will give Mr Heinos a one-minute reply. Then I expect all representatives to abstain in the debate on this subject, in the amending budget, rather than personally attack any representative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u37	Mr President! Representative Kiljunen used the truth very sparingly and combined various points in the way he wanted. The coalition has been fully determined, unambiguous in it — we have criticised this system from the outset when you presented the criteria by which you are going to share it. The parliamentary minutes contain a large number of speeches from members of the Assembly, in which we specifically pointed out where the hairdresser refocuss his service when the hair needs to be cut even after this crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u38	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u39	Honorable Mr. Speaker! At least here Mr Ovaska and, as I recall, Mr Tanu and Mr Hopsu spoke about the number of tests and the increase in the number of tests. For a very long time, the centre has also required that these actual testing volumes should be increased vigorously and quickly. This would enable us to get to the next stage in this crisis, a little more than ever. The extra money will simply not help if it is not tested, as Mr Ovaska said very well and with merit. There has been a lot of talk about Business Finland in this Chamber today, just about the subject. And, of course, as we all know, these massive relief operations have certainly also taken place. But what I do not understand at this point is the witch-hunt in public debate, the targeting of applicants, of individuals, of individual companies, and which has also led to applicants being forced, in one way or another, to withdraw the aid already granted. I don't think it can handle any daylight. Here, too, many have rationally raised the issue of physical activity and sport and its concerns about the future — quite rightly, we all understand its importance to Finnish society. The EUR 19 million aid package now being granted is a good start. For club activities and sports centers manage to walk at least through the first steps of this difficult time. But we all know that the cancellation of events in the summer, for example, poses economic challenges, perhaps even economic disasters, both in the field of culture and in the field of physical activity. Fortunately, there have been messages from the OKM that such a package of support is being prepared there, and I am confident that the Ministry will have a strong and vigorous crisis awareness of this issue. Personally, President, I would also like to see direct direct support measures for the cafés, restaurants and tourism sector continued. But I would also appeal to us, even every Member of Parliament in the Chamber, and to individual consumers in general, to continue using restaurant services. There are still many restaurants selling out, and an individual consumer can help a single restaurant by using these opportunities to sell out. President! This second amending budget of this year will therefore, as we know, focus almost exclusively on the acute management of this corona crisis. But once this crisis is over, it is extremely important that we get on our feet and on the growth path as quickly as possible. So employment and the balancing of public finances, which is now stalling, are once again coming before us and are, in the long run, absolutely essential objectives. As we know, this corona virus turned a lot of things upside down, and I understand that in this Chamber, too, all parties are in favour of spending increases and debt. We must be aware that in one way or another this debt must be repaid, but this debt will make us more able to do so in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u40	Mr President! Here, for example, Mrs Suomela spoke earlier about these company subsidies, which had to be done in a hurry. I have to say that I do not agree terribly, because, to be honest, there has been a month here to rub this, and yet there is actually a civil service, a assistant, a ministry, everyone. So it is as if it is much easier to do something than to do something with one of the MPs' own assistants about how to handle things. So, yes, in this month, however, it should have been time to get things going. One of the things I would have liked to see in this amending budget would have been that society would have supported 100% of business loans in terms of what they pay. The problem here is clearly that many companies have to wonder whether to take out a loan, because that 20% has to be found on their own, and it often means putting their own house on the line. The real issue is whether you're betting on your own property to pay the workers' wages or lay off that crew and play it safe. However, it is actually quite a big deal about the pay job, which is because it is not even under the VAT district, so that it should not be deducted from it. On this donkey night, the Coalition Party has been talking here like a parrot about this return of VAT as its own idea. Well, I have to remind the group that this is the idea of Finnish Entrepreneurs, this is not the idea of the group. On the very same day, we have brought it up here in the Chamber like everyone else. What is also confusing about it — a little must be puzzled by the delegates — is whether there has been any kind of group meeting and what this whole idea is, because clearly in the speeches others speak of it as support and others speak of it as a loan. Now I feel like I don't have it all figured out. Then there is a little talk, and now the problem is that it clearly does not reach everyone. There are a considerable number of Members here who are commenting in precisely the way that this cannot possibly be the kind of system that would work, because then everyone will have it. After all, the idea that the VAT refund would have been made quickly was originally taken back by Finnish Entrepreneurs, so to speak, as a loan, which should have been paid back later. Then it wouldn't matter if it went to a large central company or someone else, because it probably wouldn't want to take it because it doesn't need that loan. This case would have done an enormous amount, and it would have had the advantage of getting people to get cash flow and leaving the government time to think more about how these subsidies will be provided. Although I still believe that a month should perhaps have been better off than the government now had, this would have given us up to two months to rub the system good, because now it is clear that the money is going right into the well of the hangover, precisely because it is supposed to be in a hurry. From there someone now says, well, would have been refunded the VAT to a company that now might have gone bankrupt. It must be remembered that it would have gone bankrupt in any case and that certain payments would have been outstanding in any case. When the VAT was returned, so to speak, as a loan back to the cash flow, it would not have had to keep such an accurate job, because the company itself had paid for it in the spring. This would have left a few areas, the construction sector and, for example, the scrap business, which would have been marginally excluded because they have translated VAT. But then there would have been only a few fields, and they would have been much easier to rub on then. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u41	Mr President! To the previous speaker, I would like to say that the coalition is an entrepreneurial party and business matters are important to us, because that is when it comes to jobs for Finns and also to tax euros that finance our valuable services and, indeed, the whole of our welfare society. Finland needs successful companies, and in the midst of a crisis such as this, which is not caused by companies that are not subject to normal entrepreneurial risk, the state will inevitably have to meet us so that we have growth builders also after this crisis and so that jobs can be secured. [Sheikki Laakso’s interlude] We believe that the return of VAT to businesses at the beginning of the year would have been and would still be an effective means of fair allocation according to the size and turnover of the company. We have openly pointed out in our own written and oral presentations that there could be support that would include such tax debt-like support, which will be repaid, but in such a way that the state could also forgive partially or completely the companies and industries that have suffered the most from this crisis. Now it would be a matter of priority to get that support in that field. So, at the moment, companies are getting very heart-stricken feedback about having applied for all sorts of bureaucratic subsidies, but the cashier is empty and should be able to cope with those costs. This situation is so acute and tough that I hope that the government will now finally submit to this proposal of the Convention or, alternatively, find something to replace it that actually works. The problems related to Business Finland's subsidies have already been known in advance. They have been discussed here in Parliament, they have been discussed in committee, and it has been known that they include this development requirement and only 20% of fixed costs are accepted. This has been mentioned, but the problem is that these criteria, when it came to granting aid, should have been changed. And now it is not a miracle trick for Parliament to legislate, that is to say to change the law, so that other criteria are possible, but of course it requires a government proposal. And now the question is: when will this proposal be received, and can this damage be remedied yet, and what can be done quickly to make this situation easier? Very briefly on the rest of this amending budget: Good speeches have been made here, among other things, on testing. That testing should actually be stepped up now, and this is also a matter where the government should abandon this ideological centralism and mobilise all the testing capacity and resources of society, including research institutes and private companies. The more we test, the faster we can move forward in this crisis and also open up society. It is a prerequisite for all exit strategies, and the Coalition Party has also provided funding for this in its own protest, which we very much hope will be supported by this House.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u42	Mr President! Indeed, it is clear that in a number of companies the cash crisis is deepening. At first it must have touched those restaurant and service entrepreneurs, but it has been seen in April that it has expanded to almost every sector. The pain caused by the cash crisis caused by the interest rate is driving companies to the brink of bankruptcy, and even though we would make an exemption law even if the bankruptcy procedure is not the same, still a large proportion of entrepreneurs go unwittingly to the corona swamp. In that swamp, the empty promises and performances that are not impressive do not provide the longwoods needed to be seen. That is why the Coalition Party has proposed various measures, but if the whole parliament or the government agrees with them, then they do not have to be drafts of the Coalition Party, they can be performances of the whole Chamber. What Mr Laakso said about this motion by Finnish Entrepreneurs on the refund of VAT perhaps only tells us that any party could have taken them in exactly the same way as many unions do. If you tell me about the performance, then it will probably also tell you that you have ears and the ability to listen to the field and the performance. Indeed, it is important that money is made available to companies more quickly and fairly. It is also necessary to state that Finnvera's contribution to this issue. Even there, the criteria will not save you from an acute cash crisis. A government-guaranteed high-interest and short-term loan is not the answer to this acute cash crisis. How could a hairdresser or a café, a small brewery or even a construction company take out a loan — from many banks it is offered at an interest rate of more than 5% — when there is no prospect of the future when its loan could be repaid? I'm sure everyone was very happy with this loan mandate, 10 billion, but the truth was that 2 percent of it has been spent this week. The companies have received loans guaranteed by Finnvera based on media data, which have come from TEO, approximately EUR 200 million. The reasons why companies have not been able to take it are precisely the short-term repayment period and the expensive interest rate, i.e. it is expensive money, and there is no prospect of its loan being repaid. As far as this amending budget is concerned, it is important to support children and young people and also to put money into sport and sport. This EUR 19 million is a hand-out, but when it is known that only species associations and clubs calculated that 81 million are the financial losses caused by the corona virus to these species unions and clubs on the basis of this study commissioned by the Olympic Committee, that additional money will be needed, and the assembly also presented it, its EUR 80 million. Then, Mr President, to this availability of agricultural labour. Before Easter, we made these legislative changes in the Parliament, but after that the government pointed out with the health tip that only 1,500 seasonal workers will be admitted to Finland during the spring season, although farmers, gardeners and berry farmers estimate that before the summer there will be an acute need for some 3,700 to 4,400 seasonal workers. I am sure that a number of committees have dealt with this issue and, so to speak, the legislative changes have been made, but I would like the government to be able to adopt a fast-track approach now, knowing that this 1500 is not enough to do anything — in other words, let us hope that the government will be able to align itself with it — that the figure will soon be higher. Mr President! As far as the situation of municipalities is concerned, the situation of municipalities naturally shows a reduction in tax revenues, but also in the preparation and additional costs of hospital districts, i.e. two sides, will be affected. There are small hand-outs here, but I hope that the government will now quickly also provide special and different direct support to the hospital district, in which the costs of preparing for the corona will be reimbursed. Then we must conclude by saying to Mr Kiljune and Mr Ovaska that we all understand that the hands have been washed here in recent days and weeks, but I do not understand that the government is washing its hands on the responsibility.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u43	Mr President! With regard to this amending budget, Section 32 of the amending budget, and precisely these company subsidies: I stayed in that conversation and wondered how much it was. And here Mr Multala very well pointed out that 100,000 is probably a lot of money for many people, but on the other hand, when it comes to the distribution of Business Finland's money and what it is intended for, it can be a small sum. For example, these tourism entrepreneurs, whom I took, for example, if there is a turnover of 4.5 million and that order book drops to 20 percent, then the 100,000 will help a little. I have also been accused of this bureaucracy in Business Finland, but I now have this application form that Business Finland uses. When a lot of people here have probably been talking high and hard with emotion that this is not connected in any way to corona virus activity, let's hear quotes straight out of here. So the first question is: ‘Description of the impact of the virus epidemic on the business’. . It's the first question to be asked when you explain what kind of company you're dealing with, and the turnover and so on. The second question then is: ‘Important proof. Describes how new business issues such as business services, solutions, substitutes, production, work organisation, in the event of a disturbance caused by the interest rate, the company explains and plans how the research and planning work will be carried out.’ So this application from Business Finland is well connected to this corona, so it is pointless to say here that it would not have been connected on the basis of this application. Of course, there is room for further clarification in the decisions that have been taken, as the Committee on Finance also states, that the decision-making process will be further specified and that it will be correctly targeted. The second is what I myself have just mentioned, including Mr Kivisaari, with regard to this target, perhaps I will return to it. Now that we have three elements with which we support — one of the two tonnes of aid to sole entrepreneurs, which the municipality distributes, then there is the support of the Ely Centre and the TE Offices, between 1 and 6 people, and then there is this support from Business Finland — and here the subsidies are easily confused. And then, of course, you have to focus right on that business thinking. I think that if we really talk about these things in the media and in public, then people might get better at understanding this. Grahn-Laasonen and others raised the point in Business Finland that only 20 per cent of these fixed costs can be used here, even though the cashier is in pretty bad shape or there is a lack of working capital, as in the case of that company, from which I took that form model, there are currently 500000 problems with the interest rate. So we have to change this. As Minister Lintilä pointed out, the amendment to the regulation could change this Business Finland guideline and that would be quite appropriate — as is the case with us in the field of finance. Mr Laakso raised this issue of loans, and the government also stated in its own chapter that the State guarantees and the banks distribute. But as you pointed out, once the entrepreneur has gone to the bank to clear the loan, it has been checked what his insurance is at the moment, and it has been bad. After all, the bank has left the bank when the guarantees are not enough. I am referring here to the fact that, when, for example, the values of rural properties have fallen and others, this may have worsened the situation of these companies. I also wish the banking sector a sense of responsibility in this situation. Then, briefly, on these other points. Section 33, Promoting health and functional capacity: It is a great thing that this is an increase of 600 million in these protective equipment and others, but it has been very good that the committee has written here that ‘the committee places great emphasis on the accountability of procurement and on the sharing of procurement expertise in the context of the exceptional market’. This is not just a finger pointing at the Supply Security Centre, but also at the purchase of hospital districts. This market situation is really strange that you have to pay in advance and then see what comes out of the mail. And the second point in our report is the launch of this domestic production in these areas, which is a very big issue, and I do hope that this will be a joint debate between the STM and the business field. As the question was asked by Juha Sipilä today to the ministers there, a little bit of the head was rolled around to see who would take responsibility for this
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u44	Mr President! This is a rather substantial amending budget at hand, and that certainly will not be the end of it. A large part is allocated to businesses in this and in the previous amending budget. It is important that, as the Minister has promised to do, we now make the changes that the committee really requires. Of course, in a hurry, not every application can be targeted as it is intended to be, but it is also clear that, when it has been left out of the assumption that, even in an exceptional situation caused by the corona crisis, company subsidies will have to be distributed through this development funding apparition, then not all of these subsidies will reach the right address at all, unfortunately. Small sums are not mentioned here, and it is important that this debate highlights how, in every form of support, the state must use clear consideration in such a way as to have the greatest impact. After all, the state also has its own state-owned companies through which it invests in a number of sites, the state also makes infra-active contributions — in all of these, it is important that the money of the citizens has been spent in a sensible way. As far as state companies are concerned, it seems that, when considering the company structure, there are also, as it were, some major drifts over time. For example, state-owned companies do not have as broad a representation of new technologies as they could have. That is why it is important that all state ownership is also examined on a very broad and regular basis: whether it is in line with the strategic interests of today's world. It seems that there are too many regional policy reasons at times, and that will not help us Finns at the end of the game if we make the wrong targets. I'm sure there'd be real targeting by area. Well, this state ownership through its own companies, but the same problem is partly reflected in this business aid package, which many have rightly been concerned about. It's just that the mechanism is a little different now than usual. In normal circumstances, we might be more concerned about whether funding has gone to development and to create a new one. Well, now in this crisis we are faced with a completely different situation, when we really need to ensure that companies that have lost their business as a result of this dampening demand continue to survive in the future. This is such an exceptional situation. Of course, there can be companies that have a healthy business — and need to be — and then have solutions to this corona crisis, for example through the testing of a vaccine or other business. Of course, the starting point is that we are also looking at those companies that were in favour of the pre-column crisis, whose problems are actually caused by this crisis, and we are trying to push them over this crisis. This also highlights the fact that municipalities are in very different positions in relation to the corona crisis, as are businesses. Some municipalities and cities are very service driven, and this crisis will hit them particularly hard. It is important, as it says here, to compensate for tax losses and compensate for costs in relation to the actual costs of this corona epidemic. At the same time, there is a view here that we need to speed up vaccination and take all the measures necessary to obtain it. Not that one wants to be in the situation, as it is now with this security of supply, that later in the final games it will be heard that things did not go the way they were supposed to. Every month it costs to receive this vaccine, and it is really important that we are
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u45	Mr President! Finland has a better chance of getting on its feet after the corona crisis if healthy and vibrant businesses can be carried over this difficult period. A wave of bankruptcy would not only be a human tragedy but would also significantly slow Finland's recovery. Jobs are created and killed with companies, and companies ultimately produce the tax euros that also organise Finnish welfare services. The interest-rate crisis has caused an acute cash crisis for thousands of entrepreneurs, and it is indeed not a normal business risk. It is not a risk that the entrepreneur could in any way foresee. This is why, in this exceptional situation, society must take on this risk. This crisis has had a very different impact on companies. First of all, those companies in the service sector that have fixed costs, such as rents, are in the most difficult situation, even though the customer base has been stopped. I'm going to bring up a barber-hairdresser with his own company: he's a sole entrepreneur. He does not have much to gain from these subsidies from Business Finland and Ely Centres. He has no decent unemployment benefit and is in this situation, in other words, alone. Secondly, entrepreneurs are in big problems in those areas where activities are currently prohibited in Finland. As we know, this ban has now been imposed on the restaurant sector by a separate law. However, I would like to point out that in practice there are areas of activity which are subject to a similar type of ban from society, i.e. those closures, which are particularly targeted at those areas where the public is present — that is, public events, events, their organisers, performers, artists, including the carnival sector. Now the organisers of these public events or carnival entrepreneurs have learned that their business has no chance of doing so, at least until the end of July. So for the summer, business is off limits. From the point of view of freedom of industry, these sectors are in practice comparable to the restaurant sector. It is therefore irrelevant to its entrepreneur whether it has been legally prohibited by separate laws or by non-binding decisions. For these sectors too, these forms of support from Business Finland or the Ely Centres are not the most effective solution. The problems of Business Finland's subsidies have been public in recent days, and I would like to stress here that it is the government that is responsible for this whole. The opposition is not responsible for it, nor is it in fact responsible for it either for the officials of Business Finland. After all, they have dealt with a huge number of applications according to the guidelines they have, according to the legal basis that has prevailed. They've been responsible for these matters. Nor are enterprises that have received development aid responsible. There are certainly a lot of well-founded development projects there, and many entrepreneurs are, frankly, afraid at the moment. This publicity, which has resulted from this, has created a very disproportionate situation for many entrepreneurs. Many entrepreneurs have had every reason to apply for this support and also to receive it. So it's really the government's responsibility. Yes, I would like to ask a question, which is why these guidelines or regulations were not amended back then more than a month ago. Wouldn't this have been the famous two-hour job? Indeed, the Coalition Party has been proposing from the outset as an alternative to the restoration of the alves in the early part of the year. We have highlighted the fact that Sweden has taken this measure. I myself asked Minister Kulmun here on 26 March when the government intends to refund these early years' VAT. Then I did not receive a proper answer, and I have still not received it. It would be a straightforward and fair way of supporting those companies in the service sector that are now in the greatest difficulty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u46	Mr President! I respect the President-in-Office's wish that we should not be debating for longer, and that is why I will cut this very short. Perhaps I would have discussed and debated with the representatives of the Coalition Party here in greater detail. Mr Pirttilahti made a good speech in which he said that when you look at the funding criteria of Business Finland, when aid has now been sought for this project as a whole, it is the responsibility of companies to identify the problems caused by the corona crisis. The problem is, of course, that business Finland, in accordance with its own regulations and on the basis of the legislation it operates, will then provide funding for development projects, not for fixed costs, which are those that are now coming into the hands of companies because of this corona crisis, when the operation is in difficulty. Here the members of the assembly are constantly saying that they have protested. They have done so, and they have pointed out this return of early years' alves and so on, but not in the protests you made at the time — when this whole process, the big funding of Business Finland, the second month ago was adopted — criticised these criteria on which Business Finland operates. At that time, we all said in many speeches that this is now innovation, product development, rationalisation of production patterns, new ways of working, and that money is being sought and given in relation to this corona crisis, so that it can be exceeded by these new forms of action, by means of policies. This was the formulation that Parliament was discussing here, and now that Mr Talvitie and others, Mr Vestman, have also pointed out that it is the last responsibility of the government, yes, the last responsibility is certainly the responsibility of the government, just as this Parliament, which adopted these decisions at the time. We share that responsibility. And the government is shouldering this responsibility. Minister Lintilä is wondering whether the criteria of Business Finland can be changed by decree, and Prime Minister Sanna Marin, when she came out yesterday, said that the government is now absolutely forced to consider these criteria, since this is not clearly targeted in the way it would require the most acute crisis in this respect. This is precisely the responsibility. Of course, we will have to react in relation to the situation we are in, and the government is skilfully considering this now, thinking about it, and now it is likely that changes will be made, which will better target this funding towards the most acute consequences of the corona crisis in companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u47	Mr President! The government has reacted swiftly to the current crisis situation through this amending budget now under discussion. The historic major amending budget aims in many ways to lead society beyond the exceptional circumstances of this corona pandemic. The aim of the current expenditure increases is, among other things, to suppress the pandemic, improve the ability of health care to care for corona patients, to safeguard the vitality of businesses, and to assist organisations, to help local authorities to cope with the financial situation and to provide urgent assistance to people’s livelihoods. All of these are very important measures. It is quite clear that all these activities are only just beginning. More action is needed and already exists in the preparation of the government. We are all well aware that municipalities play a key role in ensuring both the vitality of business and the well-being of residents. Municipalities can at best act as a buffer to combat the adverse consequences of a pandemic. However, the finances and resources of many municipalities are already so tight that this buffer will not be possible without special state support. Unfortunately, many municipalities have also had to resort to lay-offs and reduced services as a result of this crisis. It is absolutely essential that the support measures of the future municipalities must be of a scale sufficient to maintain the future faith of the municipalities and to help them develop their own activities in a confident manner in order to respond to this crisis. Mr President! The longer the emergency conditions and restrictions continue, the more they have negative effects on people's well-being. In the future, additional efforts will certainly be needed, for example, to prevent the exclusion and nausea of children and young people. For the next draft amending budget, additional funding should also be expected, for example, for preventive child protection work, student care, special education and leisure activities for children and young people. The big problem is also that as a result of the interest rate reserve, the social security sector has had to go down the drain without haste. This will inevitably leave its mark on human health and well-being. Sufficient additional resources will need to be found to repair these tracks. Mr President! The most important thing would be to find a way out of this crisis as quickly as possible. It is therefore good that the government has clearly signalled the strategy needed to get out of this. As part of this, it is important to maintain and develop the testing capacity and to invest more and more in tracking the supply chains in the future. As we heard today in Question Time, this is what the government is doing. Fortunately, then, we are on a path through which we can get out of this situation, hopefully sooner rather than later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u48	Mr President! Indeed, there is a debate on the amending budget, but I was tempted to make a request for a speech when these state-owned companies and infrastructure sites were brought up here. The representative, Mari Holopainen, spoke on these points and pointed out that investment in the direction of state companies would be a sensible investment activity. Now that we are talking about an amending budget and we are talking about the economy that Finland's economy can be raised from this swamp, those locomotives that raise this economy out of the swamp are these areas of the future, such as bioproduct factories that are being prepared for northern Finland. And when Mrs Holopainen pointed out here that regional policy would lead to investment, this is how we should look at it, because in this country these mineral resources, and especially forest resources, are in the north of Finland, so I at least think that then those industrial plants and processing plants would be close to those raw materials reserves. I feel that this is also a climate action: if we think that we are going to drive forest resources from Kainuu or Eastern Lapland, for example, for further processing in southern Finland, it will increase the carbon footprint here. So, Mr President, I still wanted to come to this Chamber to remind you that if the government wants good investments, then it is worth looking in the direction of the forestry industry, especially the chemical forest industry, because these will also give us the additional work and wealth, the tax revenue, the way in which we can then pay these costs for our welfare society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u49	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 4/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the Legal Committee, represented by Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u51	Let's get a little more detailed about what just happened. In other words, the presentations are normal for 10 minutes, followed by 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u52	Mr President! The Koronavirus and its mitigation measures have caused Finland to experience an economic crisis. The crisis has hit businesses in particular and has radically reduced the demand for goods and services they produce and has weakened the business environment, and now the majority of companies have been hit by an epidemic of infectious diseases. Our country is facing a wave of bankruptcy and everything must be done to prevent it. It is essential that we look at the compatibility of the current bankruptcy law with this crisis situation. The Korona virus has driven and will drive many fully viable companies into difficulties of payment without their own fault. It is important that the legislative amendment is aimed at avoiding unnecessary bankruptcies due to the corona crisis. This proposal for a temporary act proposes that the debtor should not be presumed to be insolvent if he has not paid the creditor’s due claim within one week of the creditor’s request for payment. This would therefore be the change to current practice. It is a good thing that this is precisely an attempt to ensure that bankruptcies are not imposed on companies whose ability to pay has only temporarily deteriorated due to the interest rate, so that, after the crisis, they will be able to get back on their feet. However, this amendment does not completely remove the right of creditors to seek insolvency but restricts it. In addition, according to a report received by the Legal Committee, public creditors offer different payment arrangements to the company due to the corona virus situation, and responsible practices and the taking into account of the corona virus situation can be expected and expected from creditors. Moreover, the amendment does not affect debtor-initiated bankruptcies. This is why I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, some companies may go bankrupt in any case. Therefore, the entire bankruptcy process and the bankruptcy law should be taken into account. We need a more merciful and humane bankruptcy law so that the entrepreneur does not remain unduly long in debt imprisonment after bankruptcy, but gets started as soon as possible. Therefore, the possibility of personal bankruptcy under the bankruptcy law would be particularly important. We need a more supportive system that does not overshadow our hardworking entrepreneurs for a long time or, at worst, permanently.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u53	Mr President! Our committee dealt carefully with the government's proposal despite the tight timetable, and at least I said that it is also possible to prepare matters, consult experts and engage in informal discussions through online meetings. Of course, then, at the formal committee meeting, things will be decided. Despite the fact that, here in Parliament, we are trying to secure the future and the survival of companies beyond this corona crisis, some of them will, however, get into difficulties. The purpose of this proposal is to ensure that, due to the cash crisis caused by the interest rate, it is not possible to file for bankruptcy as soon as possible as a recovery measure — that is to say, what the old people are talking about on the so-called eight-day basis. I think the government proposal is very good. However, bankruptcy can also be avoided through corporate restructuring. I mentioned in committee and in the hearing that the business restructuring procedure should be changed to meet the needs of life after the corona period. I understand that this work is already under way in the Ministry, and this work was also rushed by the committee in the report. The current restructuring procedure is partly rigid, slow and excessively expensive for the applicant company and the entrepreneur. I have heard sad stories about the fact that already completed, good calculations had to be confirmed in court and it became the bill of several thousand euros for the entrepreneur and the entrepreneur's family, not even knowing whether the company would even be able to go to corporate restructuring. The efficiency and speed of the process are also much dependent on how quickly things can be achieved, for example. I've been in court. It is now very important to ensure that the event caused by the corona crisis is not blocked, for example. the operation of the courts because of a lack of financial resources, and this is also what we drew attention to in our report. The government's proposal is very good and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u54	Mr President! The purpose of this temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law is indeed to prevent a company which has been subject to insolvency due to the presence of a corona virus on the basis of non-compliance with a call for payment threatened with bankruptcy and thus to ensure that companies whose insolvency can be resolved after the end of the corona pandemic are not put into bankruptcy. Furthermore, the aim of the proposal is to prevent the use of a bankruptcy-threatening call for payment in recovery where the company’s payment difficulties are recent and are therefore likely to be due to the corona virus situation. Many companies are currently experiencing a serious, deep cash crisis and, in that sense, many companies are unwittingly on the verge of bankruptcy. In that sense, this temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law is important, necessary and justified, and it is easy to agree with Mr Sjöblom that, in addition to this temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law, we also need a larger revision of the bankruptcy law. In particular, I liked Mr Sjöblom's idea of a'more gracious bankruptcy law', because the possibility of personal bankruptcy and the second possibility after that must be guaranteed. However, if possible, the company could also prevent this bankruptcy by means of a corporate restructuring, which Mr Huttunen raised just now. One effective way would be precisely if the bank and the creditors were to stand up for these corporate restructurings, because when the bank and the creditors — one fifth of the creditors — do so only take a few days. We know about this very large company: Stockmann announced the restructuring on Monday, the decision came on Wednesday. So it's just a few business days, but if the company itself is looking for a corporate restructuring, it's about two months of a process, and no company can stand the fact that they themselves should go to a corporate restructuring to do it, because they have an acute cash crisis, they have no prospect of the future. In a way, they're just going to have more costs, and in this situation, the two months is far too long. In other words, everyone understands that the only way to save companies from bankruptcy in this situation is to get the restructuring started in such a way that the banks are in favour of it. Since the last economic crisis, banks' arguments have been hampered in the sense that if banks are in favour of restructuring, they will have to cancel their previous debts in this situation. This would really require major changes and, in particular, encouragement to speed up the restructuring process and to make it easier for companies.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u55	Mr President! This temporary amendment to the bankruptcy law in this paragraph is a sister to the next item, which concerns the correction of the enforcement cycle also through temporary solutions. Government consciously now comes against businesses, operators in the sense that the creditors are partially charging for their claims, at least in a timely manner, to try to ease this acute cash crisis, where so many companies are in many ways. Here again, the hats of the responsible government. There has been a call for the government to shoulder its responsibilities. It's the government's responsibility. With a great deal of call for this cooperation with the private sector too, since there are parties here that have been strongly registered as business supporters, it could be argued that they could also be able to present to this owner that the landlords are equally flexible with regard to their access to rent in this situation — or that the banks, in their debt, could also show flexibility. Because this crisis is common and, in all circumstances, it is ultimately up to us to do this together, because it is the best way out of this. Let this fine example of government here also spread to the business world, so that flexibility is shown on that side too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u56	Mr President! Coronavirus pandemic is a global crisis that not only has health effects but also has major economic effects. A large part of the economic impact and adverse effects on business activity are caused by the necessary restrictive measures that have been taken to prevent the spread of the virus. In this situation, it is very reasonable to make every effort to save businesses from unnecessary bankruptcy. The aim of this government proposal is to ensure that companies whose insolvency is temporary and resulting from a corona pandemic are not subject to bankruptcy. Companies’ sales and customers may have decreased abruptly in a way that the company could not be prepared for. It is important to support healthy businesses and, at the same time, jobs beyond this pandemic period. This government proposal contributes to this objective and is very much to be welcomed. The committee has also rightly stressed the possibility for creditors to make voluntary payment plans and arrangements. In this situation, we all need solidarity, responsibility and a shared commitment to ensure the vitality of Finnish companies in exceptional circumstances. Not everyone can be controlled by law.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u57	Mr President! Again, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, the committee advisers and the experts. There was also a tremendous effort at the end of the Parliament. Of course, this haste creates a small challenge at the end of the ministry, but it further emphasises the familiarisation, competence and cooperation of parliamentary committees. For example, we had to make quite a few corrections to the entry into force provisions so that the courts can apply this and so that the courts know what is being applied, which laws are being applied and when this is in force. In that sense, the committee has done an excellent job and has taken on the responsibility which, of course, should normally already be part of the ministerial phase, the hearings. This has also been written by Professor Tuula Linna of Process Law, who was before us and who is also the chairman of the Legal Union. On the Legal Association’s website you will find the experiences of this distance hearing. He thanked the Committee on Legal Affairs very much for its good work, and so do I.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u58	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 5/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the Legal Committee, represented by Meri.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u59	Mr President! This is indeed the same package and was dealt with in a very urgent time frame but still very carefully, and this is also linked to this situation of corona pandemic. The proposal amends the provisions of the Code governing the conditions for the reduction, limitation or suspension of enforcement of the enforcement procedure so as to allow for better account to be taken of the exceptional circumstances arising from the corrosive epidemic and the financial difficulties arising from them in the enforcement procedure than the legislation in force. The Committee on Legal Affairs considered the objectives of the proposal to be very important and supported, but had to do so in such a way that comments and amendments were made with the Ministry and with those consulted in order to make this law work. Here is Section 52 of Chapter 4 of the Code of Enforcement. They shall be free of charge and shall In the Government's proposal, the temporary difficulties caused to the debtor by the COVID-19 epidemic or the resulting exceptional circumstances are proposed to be added to the law as grounds for granting the leave months. In this regard, the Committee on Legal Affairs drew attention to the fact that, according to the law in force, the granting of free months is subject to the condition that the liquidation has been carried out continuously for a year or almost a year. The government proposal did not propose any change to this at all. Consequently, the Committee feels that the amendment on the free months would not be able to influence cases where the debtor has been subject to enforcement for the first time, perhaps because of this corona pandemic. Consequently, the committee proposes that Chapter 4, Section 52 of the draft law: A new Article 2 shall be added to allow the debtor to be granted months of leave, even if he has suffered a temporary difficulty in payment due to the COVID-19 epidemic or the exceptional circumstances resulting therefrom, even if the foreclosure has not continued continuously or almost continuously for one year. In addition, the government's proposal contains provisions on the date and eviction of the resident. It is proposed to amend the article so that instead of the current 2 months, the removal date can be postponed by 4 months and, with the agreement of the applicant for eviction, it can be postponed by 12 months instead of the previous 6 months. The aim is to extend the time limits for the eviction procedure in order to take account of the exceptional situation and possible underlying causes of the coronavirus. Here too, minor clarifications were made, because there were unnecessary or overlapping reasons, and it was proposed to delete the sentence as mentioned in the motion... — I will check what was taken out of it. — the phrase ‘caused by the health condition of the defendant or of thecontributor’ shall be deleted from it,as the In the same context, there was also an initiative for action 20, in which Mr Koponen suggested that there should be more months of leave due to this epidemic. This initiative was rejected by the committee because, in assessing this whole, the government's proposal contained a number of different ways of facilitating the status of enforcement debtor, and therefore it did not consider it necessary to increase the number of months at the moment, so the committee proposes that the initiative be rejected. The committee drew attention to the fact that there were no transitional provisions in the legislation proposed by the government. According to the committee, it is also justified that debtors who are already in enforcement can be subject to more flexible legislation, thereby also taking greater account of the additional difficulties caused by the corona virus situation. Therefore, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is of the opinion that this should also be reflected in the entry into force provision. For this reason, the committee proposes adding a new Article 2 to the entry into force provision, which would read as follows: ‘This law is also applicable to matters covered by this law. “ In this context, too, the committee drew attention to the workload of the enforcement service, as in the previous case of bankruptcy cases, to the workload of the courts, and noted that, on the basis of the consultations, the law will increase the number of enquiries to the enforcement authorities and the number of cases to be investigated and that the enforcement agency will therefore need additional resources to cope with its workload. The Legal Affairs Committee therefore requires that adequate resources be provided for the enforcement agency. The unanimous proposal for a decision of the Legal Committee is that Parliament approve the bill contained in the Government proposal 44/2020 as amended, and the committee proposes that Parliament rejects the initiative for action.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u60	Mr President! Overindebtedness is a problem affecting many Finns, which seriously harms normal life and causes human suffering. There are already over half a million people in debt problems in Finland who are subject to enforcement measures. A serious social problem is at risk of becoming catastrophic as a result of the economic crisis caused by the corona virus. We are already aware of layoffs, a huge number of people at risk of unemployment and people who have fallen into payment difficulties. This will also inevitably increase over-indebtedness and the number of enforcement debtors. It is essential that we do all we can now to alleviate the problems and distress caused by the economic crisis, which is why this draft law on temporary amendments to the enforcement cycle is good and justified. There is a provision in the executable box which allows for a lower amount than the normal amount to be paid on the basis of a materially impaired ability to pay. It is now proposed to add to the provision on the definition of impaired liquidity the difficulty of payment resulting from the COVID-19 epidemic. The current situation is difficult for many, and if we do not make sufficient changes to our legislation, there is a risk that many will be faced with even more long-term problems, including those that continue after the crisis. It should be borne in mind that this temporary amendment of the law does not address the root causes of payment difficulties and of the serious over-indebtedness problems already in place, but only now alleviates the problems of the corona crisis. Saving businesses and jobs directly affects economic recovery and people's ability to cope with their obligations. Government measures to mitigate the effects of the corona crisis also play a major role in preventing over-indebtedness.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u61	Mr President! As the chairman of our committee, Mr Meri, has just said, this was a bit of a match with the previous draft law. We worked on these at the same time and carefully, and it was easy to have a conversation when they were so easily connected. The central objective of this law is to clarify the procedure for enforcement under the exceptional circumstances that this virus has brought us. The purpose of the draft law is also to reduce the urgency of the enforcement procedure in the sense that the defendant or debtor will have more time to adapt and obtain funding, for example through financial support measures, to ease the situation. I also think it is very important for businesses, entrepreneurs and people to be treated equally in decision-making, regardless of which enforcement agency the customer is in. As has already been said, the workload of the agencies is very high and the resources are very low, and I am concerned that this may also lead to regional inequalities where this entrepreneur or person is living in Finland. It was indeed pointed out that there was simply a need for additional funding to be made available, that the sum could then be dismantled. I also think it is important that, when these legislative proposals and amendments come into being, the players in the sector should then be familiarised with this, so that everyone will be at the same time inside what changes have taken place. It will also increase equal treatment then among customers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u62	A point of order 6 will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 7/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. Chairman of the Administrative Committee, represented by Purra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u63	Mr President! I present the report of the Administrative Committee on the Government's proposal for a temporary amendment to the municipal law aimed at ensuring the decision-making of municipalities at the time of the corona epidemic by means of electronic teleconferences, where normal meeting procedures are not practically possible and would require an unwanted gathering from the point of view of reducing social contacts. The changes now proposed can avoid meeting at these physical meetings in municipalities and joint municipal authorities. The amendment of the Municipal Act allows an electronic meeting and the electronic decision-making process to be introduced temporarily by decision of the municipal board in all the municipal institutions. In addition, the proposal aims to make the conditions for an electronic meeting more flexible. The municipal government could provisionally decide on the application of certain provisions of the municipal administrative code concerning the holding of an electronic meeting, the electronic decision-making procedure and public access to the public at the institution’s public meeting. In addition, provisions for an electronic meeting with videoconferencing or similar contacts will be included in the law. The proposed provisions would apply both to municipalities and to joint municipal authorities. Although the restrictions on public meetings and the movement of persons over 70 do not apply to municipal institutions or municipal representatives, due to exceptional circumstances, an electronic meeting in accordance with the municipal law has been introduced more widely in municipalities to avoid meetings of the institutions at the actual meetings. These are not unproblematic, for example, because of the variety of network connections and software, as the committee also points out, but in this exceptional situation the amendment of the law is justified. Prior to the introduction of an electronic meeting, the municipality must, in accordance with the current municipal law, adopt the necessary provisions in its administrative rules as to the type of electronic meeting and decision-making procedures it has in place and the technical implementation of the meetings. As a result of the current regulation, a municipality whose administrative rules do not provide for electronic decision-making procedures has had to convene a council meeting during exceptional circumstances to decide on the necessary changes to the administrative rules. As a result of the proposed legislative amendment, the municipal government may decide to adopt electronic decision-making methods in all the municipal institutions or only in certain institutions, irrespective of the provisions of the administrative rules. The municipal board may also decide that an electronic meeting is to be held using videoconferencing or other similar technical means of communication, regardless of the administrative rule. The right of equal participation of members of a municipal institution in a meeting can be considered essential for municipal democracy. In addition, equal participation includes monitoring the meeting, discussing, commenting and taking part in the decision-making process. In this context, the committee stresses the principle requirement laid down in Article 99 of the Municipal Law when deciding on the introduction of a technical means of communication. With the amendment of the law, it is possible that the public meeting of the institution can only be followed by electronic means. It is important that the public should also have the opportunity to monitor the public meeting of the institution in so far as it is attended electronically. The law is intended to enter into force as soon as possible. The section on the decision-making powers of the municipal government would be valid until 31 July 2020 and the section on the new electronic meeting until 31 May 2021. The committee's report is unanimous.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u64	Mr President! This temporary amendment to the municipal law is indeed necessary, and although many municipalities have already made decisions that the administrative rule has been changed and therefore that distance meetings and electronic meetings have been made possible, it is of course necessary that we make this change also to the municipal law so that it can also be applied by those municipalities which have not been able to change the administrative rule or have not been able to allow remote meetings in their administrative rules. Yes, the law will come into force as soon as possible. If it is considered that this temporary change gives the municipal board the power to derogate from the decision of the Board of Governors on the administrative rule or to decide on a matter which is part of the Administrative Regulation instead of the Board of Governors as regards the decision-making method of the municipal institutions, the electronic meeting and the sending of an invitation to a meeting of the institution and the right of the public to monitor the institution's meeting on the spot, then this must have been precisely how it is possible to do so at the many Council meetings. Now, with this exception, the municipal government has the power to use it in this matter. Although it is a big matter to delegate the decision of the Board of Governors to the Board of Governors, there is only a relatively short-term law in force, i.e. until 31 July. Therefore, the committee noted that the proposed delegation of decision-making powers to the Board of Governors is intended to maintain the decision-making capacity of the municipality under exceptional circumstances, where normal meeting procedures are not practically possible under pandemic conditions and would require an unwanted gathering from the point of view of reducing social contact. Then, Mr President, in order to achieve a level playing field between the vote and the vision of the electronic meeting. The committee noted that, in practice, the existing operational programmes and communication connections may not be possible for all participants to have a completely uninterrupted visual connection, and it is therefore acceptable that when the President of the Council is seen and, for example, the delegate who speaks at the Council meeting is in a video context, it may be thought that equality in this regard would now be achieved, because if everyone did indeed have a visual connection, then the council meeting would not necessarily proceed smoothly. Then on this second point, which was also included in the report. It is this election at an electronic meeting with closed flags — the delegate also has the right to present it and to hope for it. A closed flag vote will of course come up in human elections, and this cannot be guaranteed, but of course the cities and municipalities are prepared to do so, as I now know, for example, there will be municipalities in which the mayor's election will take place this spring, and it will be one that I hope will also be able to carry out some sort of electronic vote. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u65	Mr President! This temporary change to the municipal law is necessary and justified. Municipal councils are the cornerstones of Finnish democracy and their ability to make decisions must be safeguarded under all circumstances. Municipal councils must be able to change their policies to meet the requirements of the corona crisis. Every effort must be made to prevent interest-bearing infections, and it is therefore essential that municipal councils consisting of representatives elected by the people avoid public gatherings, as everyone else does. In fact, municipal councils and authorities must be able to set an example in combating the epidemic. This bill is therefore very necessary and worthy of support. Many municipalities have already changed their practices, but many need this change of law. Remote meetings also offer opportunities for the future after the interest rate. It is worth considering with an open mind what functions of our municipal democracy could be managed electronically in the future. However, security and confidentiality must be guaranteed. Technology is constantly evolving and more comprehensive and secure applications and programmes are also being developed. Digitalisation offers a lot of new opportunities for public activities, and it is worth taking advantage of them. Over time, the crises will pass, but Finnish democracy will remain and evolve.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u66	Mr President! This government proposal that the municipal law be amended or developed further, that this electronic teleconference is possible, was interesting in that I had the opportunity today to attend the first meeting of the Vantaa Environmental Board in electronic form. Mr President, exactly the same time as you opened the plenary session at 5.15 p.m. — that meeting of the Environment Committee began at 5 p.m. I now have a personal experience of how this electronic remote participation takes place when I attended two meetings at the same time, Mr President. I am not quite sure that democracy was achieved in the best possible way. Technically, yes, I attended two meetings — the meeting fees also came from both meetings — but my mental concentration was quite schizophrenicly divided. I don't know which one I took part in, but I think I did a third thing over my computer. So I'm not quite convinced that in such a longer run this kind of distance participation, holding distant meetings, could become a permanent practice. That's where I'd be careful. Now I understand that, in this situation, I absolutely understand when people want to avoid close contact. This crisis situation is exceptional, and in order to maintain the decision-making capacity in these bodies this must be done. Nevertheless, I would like us not to learn from this, as it were, in such a way that we would begin to see remote meetings as the main rule. There's a lot of things in it. This technical aspect is one of the problems that some Members have already referred to, namely that it does not treat everyone in the same way. Not everyone can even use technology in the same way, but there is also this problem, although of course you learn about it quite quickly. And yes, in a meeting situation, it is very important to experience semiiology. We see each other, we react to small expressions, gestures, remarks. It's a social situation at the same time. It is often also a question of difficult decisions, and if that dynamic is lost in decision-making, it will indeed result in a weakening of democracy. In that process, if we go to remote meetings regularly, power will increasingly focus on (a) preparation — increasingly clearly that preparation will guide the decision-making process — and (b) the very core group that will lead that meeting. It leads to the concentration of power. I hope that, in a representative democracy, we will respect the fact that, as a general rule, meetings in which we are genuinely present as human beings are the starting point, we will experience one another, and we cannot, as Mr Kimmo Kiljunen has done today, be divided into several meetings at the same time and not actually participate in anything.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u67	Mr President! This government proposal concerns a temporary amendment of the municipal law and aims to safeguard the decision-making capacity of municipalities and joint municipal boards in exceptional circumstances caused by the corona epidemic. Municipalities and joint municipal authorities play an important role in preparing for the corona epidemic and safeguarding public services even in these exceptional circumstances, so they need to be able to make decisions. In this situation, it makes sense to avoid physical gatherings that inevitably pose a risk to the spread of the virus. This amendment to the Local Government Act allows for a secure meeting procedure for exceptional circumstances, guarantees democracy and local self-government, enables the safe participation of the elected representatives in decision-making and ensures the public's ability to follow the public's electronic public meeting. These are all important things. The committee wanted to pay particular attention to information security and the processing of confidential information. When selecting technical solutions, these must be taken into account in municipalities and joint municipal authorities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u68	Mr President! Two more points: Of course, electronic meeting procedures are best suited when participants know each other and know each other in advance. Many times I have said here in the last couple of months that, fortunately, it has not been election spring, that it would be very difficult if the municipalities had had new councils and new committees and councils to introduce these remote conventions, let alone just started the parliament here and organized ourselves and had to avoid social contacts and be distant from each other. That would also be a very difficult matter for the cohesion of the committees. Mr Kiljunen then referred to two meetings. Indeed, this law allows for these remote meetings, but perhaps in this sense we parliamentarians have a place of strict responsibility and a place of strict, careful consideration, that when we know that many of us may also have many meetings on top of each other, at the same time, it becomes even more important for us to be able to reflect on where they are and where they are and at least not try to be at two or three meetings at the same time. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u69	Mr President! Briefly: Representative Talvitie took this matter forward so much that if remote meetings are held electronically, it is good if people know each other. Perhaps even more important is that if they are very small-scale meetings, then you can understand it, you can quickly communicate from far away from things — yes, there are such forms — but if there are any more demanding negotiation processes and bigger situations where there should be speeches, even interludes, enabling and so on — there could be those interludes in this case — but in any case I would be very sensitive to the fact that we take the main rule of this kind of distance meeting.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u70	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u71	Mr President! This Government proposal proposes a temporary amendment of the Act on Public Employment and Business Services and the Act on Unemployment Security due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The maximum duration of the start-up grant would be temporarily extended from 12 months to 18 months. This change would ensure the possibility for start-up entrepreneurs to start up and consolidate their business despite the temporary deterioration in the operating conditions caused by the pandemic. The amendment would be valid until the end of June 2021. The provision on the validity of job search would take into account that, in the current situation, a large number of people, such as entrepreneurs and laid-off persons, who have no previous experience of using these online services, register as a job seeker. The period of validity of a person’s job search and the right to unemployment benefit would not end because he or she has erred in using the online service when starting a job search. This amendment would be valid until 30 June 2020. Job seekers would not lose their right to unemployment benefit either because of a failure to implement an employment plan or a replacement plan. This change would be made in particular because some of the plans have been made before the pandemic and job seekers may not be able to act in the way agreed on by the plan, precisely because of this pandemic. Moreover, the jobseeker would be entitled to suspend the employment support service without losing the unemployment benefit for a justified reason caused by the pandemic. Such a justified reason could be, for example, to care for a child under the age of 10 at home. The changes to the unemployment security consequences would be valid until 31 July 2020. A job seeker would be entitled to unemployment benefit without short-term studies, even if the normal maximum period of six months for the duration of studies was exceeded. The condition would be that the lengthening of studies is due to this COVID-19 pandemic. In this way, the jobseeker would not have to drop out of his studies, meaning that the change means that the studies started before the pandemic could be continued up to the end of this year. The presentation also includes flexibility to facilitate the work load of TE Offices in organising interviews with jobseekers. The organisation of interviews should be considered as appropriate, taking into account, among other things, the situation of the jobseeker, the resources of the TE Office and the labour market situation in the region, and this change would be in force at 30. until June 2020. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u72	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for having been here to present this issue — even so late this debate took place — and I would like to thank you for presenting it personally. Secondly, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that this content is exactly what is expected here. Mr Heinonen spoke here today when he talked about Business Finland, about the fact that these funding from Business Finland and so on now do not comfort hairdressers, barbers and so on. He is quite right in that, they do not make it any easier, but this proposal, which you have just made, will make a huge contribution to the situation of the 180,000 sole entrepreneurs, of whom we are talking about tens of thousands of people - it cannot be said that the profession has gone under, but the company has gone under, because the purchasing power has deteriorated so much, or in fact demand has deteriorated, because of this corona crisis, so exponentially that we are in a situation of kaput. Most of these self-employed people are never, because they have a company, have been in these employment services and do not know, as the Minister said, how to fill in these applications. I myself have been sidelined, for some reason, by a large number of these self-employed who are now working on these matters. And it’s just a bull’s-eye this idea: When you’re wrong about filling out online forms, I know that you’ve informed these applicants that their application has been rejected and they’ve thrown an axe into the well, there’s nothing you can do. I've been trying to make you feel better about doing it again. And yes, the employment offices have already come up against it and said that do it again, that we too will be doing it in a hurry, under a lot of pressure, we can try to help you again. We are now going to make a clear legislative correction of this kind, that is true. Then this employment plan: these forms have been made for another type of situation, people who are permanently seeking employment and not entrepreneurs. First of all, this employment plan does not want to be found technically. It is still a major problem that it is nowhere to be found. After long calls, it was found where it could be made. But its content in this situation is quite clear. In this case, when it comes to the self-employed, his employment plan is to maintain the small business whose incomes have now collapsed, so that it does not quite go down the drain to overcome this crisis. That is the aim. And here is the important thing right now that in such employment plans even can now be flexible at this point when it is plagiarism for all of these, the same thing: wants to maintain its own business there in June, until July with the small incomes where it moves. And that is why this labour market support comes on top of it, will certainly save thousands, thousands of small businesses, will be a relief. Mr President! There is another point to make when I mentioned these forms that this is bureaucratically very difficult: We have a large number of immigrants and people with a foreign background — 20 per cent in Vantaa use a language other than Finnish or Swedish as their mother tongue, for example, and they are the sole entrepreneurs — and it has been difficult for them to overcome this bureaucratic threshold when this process of filling out forms is difficult, but there is still a language threshold. Now, too, I would like to see a move as quickly as possible to provide clear guidance to these immigrants, who are giving their own input and are employing — we also have tens of thousands of immigrants who have employed themselves here in many ways — that they are not going to find themselves in a very unreasonable situation just because they are not able to go through sophisticated processes either. It is good that the government has taken this step, in the right way. This is certainly for many, for many now happy thing that this kind of flexibility this comes, as long as now knowledge spreads that do not give up, do not throw an axe into the well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u73	Mr President! One young entrepreneur reported that as many as 80 to 90 % of the customers in his service business have disappeared on a weekly basis and that there are currently very few jobs. Fortunately, some have already received relief from landlords and corporate loan repayments, but the costs of the small and new entrepreneur YELs and other compulsory expenses are a great burden on the economy because there is really no income. At this point, the current start-up money has already been of great help to him in making a living, and in his abundant leisure time, the entrepreneur tells us that he has been able to develop his services and also created a lot for the new future, so the strollers are spinning, even though there is no income now. The extension of start-up funding from 12 months to 18 months can be a great rescue for many start-ups to bring security and continuity in the future. It is unlikely that any of us will be able to estimate the time frame for interest, and the future is uncertain in many of these circumstances. In this case, the extension period of the start-up grant from 6 to 12 months has already been able to secure income during the interest rate, but the company’s profits have stopped. The extension period from 12 to 18 months would give more leeway, as without this support the company's cashier will be cleared very quickly in the current situation, after which it will be difficult and uncertain to continue. Understandably, saving in the first year has not been easy for the future either. It would also seem pointless and wrong to throw away the hard work and customer acquisition of the first year, for which the entrepreneur has made a lot of investments and created a workable basis. The sole entrepreneur starting in several situations also feels that he/she is an interlocutor in support of the interest rate. Mr President! The continuation of the start-up grant could save many start-up small entrepreneurs and the relief of the interest rate situation would allow us to pick up where we left off before all this started. This 12-month start-up money may also be wasted in many cases if a new company, which has built a solid foundation, had to close its doors for reasons of emergency. So in the long run, the change in starting money for 18 months would certainly bring more positive results and a brighter economic outlook. With reference to what Mr Kiljunen has said, I hope that in future we will also look at this bureaucracy, which has already proved to be so difficult with regard to the forms, and that when the interest rate is over, we will also look at these state agencies with a new eye.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u74	Mr President! One of the aims of this bill is to ensure that entrepreneurs receiving start-up money can cope with the corona crisis. The interest-rate crisis is causing them a significant deterioration in their operating conditions. Entrepreneurs receiving start-up funding are start-ups. According to the Act on Public Employment and Business Services and the Ministry's Implementation Guidelines, the start-up funding decision is made periodically and the entrepreneur applies for the start-up grant for a further period after six months. The need for further financing will be assessed, inter alia, on the basis of whether the business start-up is planned in relation to the business plan and whether the income generated from the business activity is sufficient to safeguard the entrepreneur’s livelihood. The economic crisis caused by the interest-rate crisis makes it much more difficult for start-up entrepreneurs to develop their business opportunities, and it is therefore important that this change be made a little longer for the extension of the start-up grant. This will help to prevent unemployment and social exclusion in the longer term and encourage entrepreneurship and employment. It would also be interesting to have a follow-up on the impact of such an extended start-up period on the potential for progress and development of these companies. The bill is good and supported.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u75	Mr President! When the minister is still here, when both thanks and remedies came in, I would have asked the Minister how much time would it take for us to be able to shape this electronic application system so that it would take account of this particular type of self-employed situation when they have a company and try to maintain what the previous legislation did not allow — the form itself, or the application process itself, to respond to this cry — and b) make it clearer, genuinely clearer, the application process so that it could also have these language versions. How much time would this be about making this easier?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-23-ps-60.u76	Mr President! I can hardly say the number of days or the number of months, but I'll take these up. I took note of your comments on this debate and I will send them forward. This has also come to light in other contexts, that in these forms made on the basis of the authorities, the logic is that of administration and then the situations of living life are different. In a way, it must be able to ensure two things: that it is accurate, because it is important for its legal security, and then that the processing process is such that we know where this information is based. But there is room for improvement in these, in all official activities. I'm gonna take these out and I'm gonna text you about them. After all, these forms are always edited from time to time — when situations change, so in those contexts. We need to pay attention to this.
