ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. The basis for this discussion is the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 4/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided. — Mr Viitanen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u2	Mr President! I was confused when I did not see the order of the floor. Indeed, this is now a proposal to support companies in difficulty. In this particular draft law, the interest on late payments for companies involved in tax arrangements would be temporarily reduced from 7% to 4%. This calculation of the interest on late payment obviously requires that the tax has been applied for and paid. This proposal is for a limited period: it is from the beginning of March and these arrangements will then be extended until the end of August. At the same time as this law in Parliament lowers the interest rate on late payments, the Tax Administration has also independently made certain flexibility in the payment arrangement that is necessary and good. Payments may be made within a later extended time frame. For example, it will also be easier to include additional taxes due in addition to the current ones. Overall, this will have an impact on revenue estimates of about 700 million, even if it is fair, but of course these estimates are quite difficult to make. With this proposal, it has been estimated that they will be. On the municipal tax side, these effects would amount to 550 million, i.e. a significant impact on the local government. Of course, it is important to note that the second proposal, which has been unanimously adopted by the Committee on Administrative Affairs and which is here for the next debate, will then also compensate the municipalities for the loss of tax revenue. All in all, this proposal has, understandably, been considered very necessary in these circumstances and, of course, this has been supported. But then there has been a debate about whether this level of interest, which is presented here as four, is exactly the right level. Is it four, should it be three and a half, two, one, zero — what would be right? Of course, defining this at this stage is a little difficult, especially when this law is quite fast-track and quickly prepared. This has been done quickly by the rapporteurs, and Parliament has also dealt with this very urgently, so that we can get these important proposals adopted here, it is in everyone's interest. So, some time ago, in this report, we have considered this issue, specifically because of the level of this interest rate. So, as the Committee on Budgets, we are proposing that the proposal be adopted of course, but we are making a statement which will then give some thought to this necessary future. All in all, we stress that it should be set at such a level that, firstly, of course, an insolvent company is being relieved of its situation and, secondly, it must be at a level where a company that is financially viable without difficulties pays its taxes in normal time, and this, of course, guarantees tax revenue here and now also for the state and the head of the municipalities, which is of course important. It is also very important that, in exceptional circumstances, when we support companies with payment difficulties, we can support those who specifically need it the most. It is precisely because this has raised questions as to what, in the end, is the right level of interest, whether it should be lower in the future and thus, the committee is making a statement in which we require the government to monitor this matter. It must monitor precisely this correctness of the interest rate — whether it could be lower, this is what the committee is referring to — and, on the other hand, it can also monitor such matters, such as whether the period of application of the payment scheme should be extended. So it's very important to evaluate. There may also be a need for a longer period of validity in the future. It should also be assessed whether full liberalisation can be made easier. At present, there is a provision which provides that, for certain specific legitimate reasons, this interest rate can already be set at zero. Until now, the Tax Administration has interpreted this very rigorously, i.e. rather exceptional circumstances have been the circumstances under which interest is defined as zero, but this is in principle possible. As a committee, we wanted to draw attention to the fact that, if necessary, could this interpretation of zero interest and the situation in which it should be zero be relaxed under these exceptional circumstances. In this regard too, we send our best wishes to the government to clarify this issue as a whole. It is a little difficult in the tax section, we said here and now, to really make an assessment of what is the right level of interest and how much these arrangements will need in the future, how much they will affect tax collections. But we also said the important thing that, in a very short time, we will have more important information to evaluate this. Just now, on Tuesday 14 April, there has been one date for the payment of VAT due, i.e. in February, VAT, and the deductions from employers' contributions in March have been paid. I am sure very soon we will see how much is now being applied for in this situation. The next point, when we will receive more information on this matter, will be in three weeks' time, and then, if you have not applied for the arrangements but have not paid the taxes, The Tax Administration will send reminders of payments, which will certainly be the moment when these payment arrangements may then be applied for again. Therefore, in the coming weeks we will have more information on who this is going to involve, how many companies will be involved, and all this assessment will certainly be the basis for the government's monitoring of the situation and wondering whether it will then return to these measures, which, in its committee's efforts, will certainly require an evaluation. So on this basis, Mr President, that is what we are saying. To this end, we will also draw attention to this in our own report, on the one hand, that this also plays a major role in tax collections, including in the municipalities here and now. In some ways, we must also ensure that the level of interest proposed is proportionate to how, at the same time, we obtain the necessary support for businesses, for companies in need of support, but also to ensure the collection of tax revenue in which the services are provided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u3	Congressman Essayah. — — — — Now that panel is working.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u4	Mr President! Just as the chairman of the Finance Tax Section, Mr Viitanen, said, thank you for the fact that, in committee, very quickly, this matter could be taken forward and, during the Easter weekend, we then received the necessary statements, and the committee advisers also stretched out that this matter was quickly brought to the large Chamber, so that, once we know that companies have these due tax debts, we can bring this relief with regard to these interest rates. Just as Mr Viitanen said, there was a debate in committee on what, after all, is the right amount of interest. The material we were presented with in these expert reports very often referred to the fact that this is such fixed-term legislation and that companies, which are in this situation, would certainly need the maximum support to deal with this difficult situation. In that sense, the Christian Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party concluded that only a reference rate of 0 % is to be charged for this short period of time when this payment is postponed. In view of what has been done internationally to facilitate the situation of companies, it is noted that the collection of interest has been completely phased out in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Switzerland, Greece and Cyprus, and in Sweden too. The Ministry of Finance's report did not show why it is now precisely 4% that would be a particularly good interest rate, just as the President-in-Office of the Chamber said, and in the sense that such criteria were not found particularly for this 4% interest rate, we considered that, in this situation, support for businesses is above all the most important signal, and that is why we really want to raise this level of reference rate, which is in line with protest 2. Of course, we need to take into account how many of these deferrals are now being applied for, which is, as it were, the interest that is not being received. Only the so-called best guesses have been made about this. At the moment, we cannot have the kind of data we could say that, for example, the possible amounts of interest not received in the material would be just right, but, of course, we have to start making these estimates from somewhere. In this context, I would like to point out that many companies will certainly be able, if they have done their business well so far, to obtain a loan from the market at a rate of around 2%, below 2%, and there are, of course, many different ways of supporting this package, which is currently being brought to companies. There are loans guaranteed by Finnvera, there are various business subsidies and then there is also direct support for sole entrepreneurs through municipalities. It could be said that these means are many at the moment, as should be the case. If the company decides to apply for this tax deferral and thereby, as it were, for relief from that cash-flow situation, this is perhaps particularly supported by the fact that this is a very easy way of doing so, or at least we are assured by it, and we hope that the bureaucracy in the tax administration is now very low and that there is a chance of making this sort of thing work by phone. Of course, if you think that banks need to carry out various studies, fill out forms and then easily incur various costs, then you can of course think that this 4% tax-paying rate in this situation would be as if it were a cost-reimbursement, but we believe that this signal to businesses is now the most important signal and in that sense the interest rate on deferral should be reduced to the level of the reference rate. When Mr Viitanen mentioned that there is this Article 43(3) of the Tax Recovery Act, which, for very serious reasons, also leads to the non-recovery of interest, when we asked the Tax Administration for further clarifications, it turned out that this has indeed been well spent on private individuals so far, and in that sense it could hardly be said that this is the way in which the Tax Administration is going to take off in this situation. Of course, it would then come to the difficult assessment of why, in the case of one company, interest would not be collected and, in the case of another company, interest would be charged, so it can also be said that this objection from the Coalition Party and the Christian Democrats is clear: it is the same for everyone, and we hope that the zero reference rate will be applied at the moment in this situation. This would indeed be a hand-out for firms in difficulty today, regardless of the sector in which they operate and the background in which they come from. Mr President! Indeed, objection 2 to the committee's report, and apparently tomorrow, in detail, we will then have these draft articles.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u5	Mr President! The interest-rate crisis threatens to bring down healthy businesses and permanently destroy jobs. It is therefore important to support the liquidity of companies also through the flexibility of tax procedures. Here I would like to thank the government for bringing this proposal to Parliament. At the time of the referral debate here on this proposal, attention was drawn precisely to this amount of interest on delays and delays, and the possibility of a zero reference rate was also mentioned. Now that this committee report is being read through, I am becoming even more convinced that the proposal by the Christian Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party is the right one: no convincing arguments have been put forward in favour of it, which is why that 4% would be the right level. In view of the fact that a large number of European countries have also come to the conclusion that the collection of interest has been abolished on a fixed-term basis, I believe that this would be the best solution here in Finland as well. In other words, I support the amendments to the objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u6	Mr President! This is just one piece of the big government package, which in many ways facilitates the difficult situation of companies under these exceptional circumstances. Of course, first of all, it should be pointed out that tax relief does not, of course, help those companies in the worst situation which, unfortunately, may have stopped entirely because of the interest rate. In other words, it is mainly those companies that are still able to carry out some kind of sales which are still able to pay some wages. So, in a sense, we are not talking about the companies with the most difficult situation. This is why such tax relief is only part of this larger package to facilitate the situation of businesses — an extremely important part of it, of course, because it is now trying to prevent more companies from going into a situation where all activities cease because of interest. Hopefully this will help, for example, those restaurants that have now moved their sales to take-away activities. It is, of course, still a sale for which taxes have to be paid, but there are certainly many points where it will be much more limited than what it would be like if customers could come inside the restaurant. Here, too, the committee stresses that it is not only possible to apply for flexibility for tax payments through such exceptional arrangements. The committee has stressed that the tax administration should be flexible in these circumstances, and this was also put forward by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy in its own opinion. In the past, there was talk of this Article 43(3) of the Tax Code, which provides that, exceptionally, zero interest may even be allowed on an undertaking, if it can be established that there is no real possibility of paying back taxes at an interest rate, but if the interest rate were zero, then the payment would be successful. The report therefore stresses that this possibility should now be applied as flexibly as possible to businesses. However, such a broader, more flexible arrangement suggests a reduction in the rate of the tax arrangements from 7% to 4%. This alone has caused concerns in those who are completely dependent on tax revenue and also on income from employers' contributions. For example, I believe that the opinion of the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, representing all Finnish municipalities, pointed out that this discount alone could lead to very significant tax losses for many municipalities. The committee therefore stresses the importance of timely and comprehensive compensation for these losses. Of course, this is something that is difficult to anticipate, and when it is difficult to anticipate, it is difficult to compensate in a timely manner, which is why it is important that information is now collected on how the effects of this change are progressing, how this affects companies, what kind of companies use this in general, how the effects are distributed across Finland and how this ultimately affects the tax revenues of municipalities. Then we can consider whether further relief should be made and how best to compensate for the impact of these additional reliefs on the municipalities. Municipalities are already in a difficult situation, and I think it would be quite irresponsible to suddenly go out and eat the municipal finances even more in a way that has a direct impact on the municipalities without having any proper knowledge of how to compensate them. Of course, we do have estimates. For example, if the payment arrangement procedure were to cover 10% of taxes, this year's tax revenue would be reduced by a total of EUR 1.4 billion and municipalities would lose EUR 552 million in tax revenue. This is only if 10% of the tax revenue were to be covered by such an arrangement. Now we cannot know how much of the tax revenue would be covered by such an arrangement. This has already been the subject of preliminary survey data collected by entrepreneurs and industry, and, based on its foresight, smaller companies in particular would like to make use of this opportunity. This should be taken into account when considering what kind of interest rate is reasonable. The most financially sound companies with the best credit rating can obtain significantly more favourable financing on the market than interest-bearing financing of 4%, but the companies most likely to benefit from this will unfortunately not be able to benefit from a very favourable debt. It is therefore all the more important now to check which companies use this and how this interest rate affects them and whether there will be a need for different types of measures and different types of relief in the future, and then to ensure that their effects are properly compensated by the municipalities. If the impact on municipalities is not compensated, there is a concern that some individual municipalities may face a time of extreme economic crisis. That is why, in my view, the government's proposal is justified precisely because the concerns, especially regarding the local government's financial situation, are serious and deep. I therefore recommend that each representative read its statement to the Association of Local and Regional Authorities. There was a very heavy and worrying issue about the impact of this proposal on the municipalities alone. So I would not go any further without details.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u7	Mr President! We know that the corona virus has caused, above all, a health crisis, but day by day we also have an increasing economic crisis. That is why there is a need for large-scale action, a variety of measures which are also complementary to each other, so that these effects of the rapid economic crisis can be eased and we can also ensure that healthy businesses do not fall as a result of this crisis. That is why this government proposal to the Parliament, which has been discussed by the Committee on Finance and the Tax Section, with regard to the interest rate on corporate payments is an important step in addition to these other measures. There has been a good debate here about the level of interest that should be set in this situation. As I see it, since it is a completely unpredictable shock to our economy, which no company has been able to anticipate, there is also all the reason for the fact that, in this situation, interest on these payment arrangements would not be charged at all. Consequently, the Coalition Party and the Christian Democrats have raised a very good objection to the report, which suggests that the interest rate on late payments and interest on late payments would be in line with the reference rate under the Interest Rates Act, which is currently zero. On the other hand, I also understand the views expressed in connection with this proposal, which also seeks to ensure that companies are not subject to these payment arrangements on too few grounds, which may have led to interest being recovered in the past. But, as I said, when we are dealing with an acute crisis which is very serious, which has come up very quickly, all the means by which we can help the situation of businesses must be taken advantage of. In this situation, I would see that, administratively, it would be the easiest and most justified thing to do, that interest should not be charged at all, so that companies can easily and quickly organise their tax payments forward, so as to ensure that the cash reserves of these companies are sufficient and to ensure that these companies are also able to cope with this worst crisis. As far as the situation in the municipalities is concerned, it is relevant, good attention, necessary attention, but the State also has the means at its disposal to compensate for and cover this temporary loss of tax revenue in the municipalities. In the past, these mechanisms have been used, for example, to pay for central government contributions earlier in a given year and then to pay less in the following year. I believe that the Ministry of Finance will find a good mechanism in this situation now, if many companies apply for this payment scheme and tax payments are deferred, which will then continue to affect the reduction in the tax revenues of many municipalities, whereas correspondingly these municipalities, cities can be covered by this temporary loss of tax revenue. I believe that a good solution can be found in that regard. Mr. Speaker! Without further ado, the opposition of the Coalition Party and the Christian Democrats is excellent. It is fully justified and it is easy to support. I hope that, even in the ranks of the government, instead of always talking about monitoring, monitoring and reflection, it will be understood that there is an emergency at hand. And instead of making a statement that this change is now being followed up, it would have been entirely justified to deal with this matter once and for all, so that companies will then have one important support element in place to ease their situation, because the messages I am about to receive from the business field are very serious. There's a great deal of concern there for a lot of companies. Without this house taking impressive, large-scale measures to facilitate the situation of companies, we are facing a wave of bankruptcy and, of course, these companies will no longer pay taxes if the business is to end. In other words, it would be a good idea to look a lot further now rather than just think about what the impact of state tax revenue is at present, but to look at it over several years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u8	Mr President! It is, of course, a good thing in politics to be able to distinguish between small and large things, and the most important thing is that, in the first two additional budgets, EUR 1.45 billion in direct aid has already been promised to companies, and they are currently in the process of being applied for. These direct payments are likely to have to be given even more. Then, if we talk about taxation, the most important thing is that the Tax Administration, within the limits of the law, is now reducing income tax advances without a separate explanation. The Tax Administration currently accepts applications for a reduction in the advance tax for 2020 or a change in the monthly advance tax on the basis of the taxpayer’s own declaration without any interim or other written explanation. So now, in April, and even in March, it may have been possible to get the income tax charges off for the rest of the year without any sanctions. In this proposal, Mr President, which we are now dealing with, it is a question of a payment arrangement for a tax that has already been due, that is to say, at a very different level than a normal tax payment. According to the Tax Recovery Act, a payment arrangement may be granted if the taxable person’s ability to pay taxes has been temporarily reduced due to maintenance obligations, unemployment, illness or impaired liquidity or other reasons. This payment arrangement means that the tax already due will not be passed on to the enforcement of the enforcement measure, but will be subject to a payment programme showing the amounts of tax due and their new due dates. In the exceptional circumstances of the Corona virus pandemic, the payment arrangement only requires that the taxable person has no tax on enforcement and that the taxable person has issued all the tax returns and the wage and salary declarations to the Incomes Register and the employer’s separate declarations. This is a provision that the first instalment under the payment scheme is only three months from the date of acceptance of the payment arrangement, instead of the current one month, and the Tax Administration automatically adds to the payment arrangement all taxes due by the end of May 2020 that have not been paid on the due date. The interest rate is being proposed at this stage to be reduced from 7% to 4%, and the report has stated that it is ready to review this already next month, as this framework for the economy of corona virus will be clarified in greater detail. It is clear, however, that this is also a significant issue, for example, of tax revenues from municipalities. 0 percent is nice — it has, not quite the taste of the vessel, but quite the taste of populism when it applies to all those who do not need this payment arrangement. Of course, it is normal for companies to pay their taxes, and in particular the question of the tax that has already been due, and in that sense that 0% is certainly an impossible proposal. But I think there is every reason to look again at whether this could be reduced from this 4% down.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u9	Mr President! This is one of the big solutions or some of these big solutions that Finland has now made in connection with the corona virus, and it is good to first look at this general situation. We have two neighbouring countries, Finland and Sweden, which have received this virus in a slightly different way. Finland has severely restricted, Sweden has been less restrictive. The model taken by Finland costs a lot financially, and the model taken by Sweden costs much more in human life at least at this stage than the line taken by Finland. Mr President, I am strongly behind the government in this, that this line in Finland has been the right one. Life is more important than the economy. The economy must be seen as an instrument. In this respect, we know that companies are in difficulty, and it is great that the government receives these proposals. This is now a tax-related arrangement in which, as described earlier, taxes due are not subject to enforcement but are allowed to be delayed and to be subject to a certain interest rate. This is a temporary arrangement, isn't it? It should be noted immediately that this is a temporary arrangement, and in this case it would go to the end of August. I agree with Mr Kiviranta when he gave some thought to the percentages in these alternative presentations. The True Finns have suggested that when the government’s position is that this interest rate of 7% can be set at 4%, the True Finns place it at 3.5, and the Coalition Party, I understand, is in favour of 0 with Christians. Congressman Kiviranta asked if it had the taste of a dish. I would like to ask — while Mr Heinonen is still speaking in favour of the Coalition Party — whether there is a political policy here. It's just a little bit of a file-down. We know that this is a temporary solution. If this crisis deepens, we will have to go back to that — it concerns the deadline, and these percentages will then have to be assessed — but is there now only a need for the opposition to opponate for the sake of opponation and not for the sake of this? It would seem a bit like a finger feel when you look at this issue. It would be a good thing for us in Parliament to be able to act unanimously on these matters, as the Prime Minister has repeatedly called for, once they have been taken care of in a sensible way,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u12	Mr President! We in the opposition have offered the hand of cooperation, and, of course, Mr Kiljunen, it would be appropriate for these matters to be prepared together. Your cooperation is now very much that you give and say that this is it, take it as you give it. Unfortunately, Mrs Kiljunen, there is room for correction in this proposal, and it would have been worth listening to the opposition in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u17	Mr President! Here are the chairman of the tax section, Mr Viitanen and the vice-chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Kiviranta, who has already explained the content of the report and the associated conditions for further work and the motion for a resolution. It should now be noted that the Committee on Budgets has dealt with this issue very quickly and considers it important that it should be made available to the field very soon.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u20	Mr President! For my part, briefly, only to the extent that the report by the Committee on Finance well illustrates the seriousness of this situation and the fact that companies that have been in difficulty as a result of tax payments receive a reduction in interest rates and also time to pay. Now that the Chairman and Vice-President of the Committee on Finance and the President of the Tax Section have presented the very essence of this matter, I am surprised that, when this report and the explanatory statement state quite clearly that if we were to push this interest rate to zero, it would have a truly shocking effect on the tax revenue of the municipalities. So it's not worth it. Now, if you are going to make an improvement and cause even more terrible damage, then it is worth telling you honestly if you intend to make such a proposal, as the opposition has done in this case. And one last thing: Now that we are facing this corona crisis, we have only seen a very, very small part of it. What's coming down there, we don't know. So I would now like people to focus on how we will survive this crisis in the long term, and that is not the time for a little trickery. Similarly, when Mr Heinonen, in his speech, gave some small information on taxation in other countries, how has it happened that I would warn against such a procedure, because comparing the two-state tax system, especially in this situation — I do not think it is very appropriate, because that means that you can pick up a passage from other countries and justify anything in this country. However, I would like us to remain realistic, because the situation is serious.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u21	Mr President! In my recent presentation, I really forgot to mention at the end that there are two objections to this, but that has now been made clear in this debate. Unfortunately, in Mr Heinonen's speech in such a crisis, I thought that I could see a little bit of irritation in him, which is not necessarily necessary, because I think that in that Chamber, in a very cooperative spirit, both the government and the opposition are openly considering this issue, what might be the right level of interest? In my opinion, however, we were able to justify that this zero interest rate would be rather risky in this situation. We have indeed recorded in this report precisely that if, for example, half of companies were to use this opportunity when this became an attractive credit, it would be here, and now it would be two and a half billion tax losses for the municipalities. Everyone understands that this equation is very difficult, while at the same time concerns are raised about how municipalities treat people’s health, for example, in these crisis situations. These are pretty serious, big things we should look at the whole thing. The chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, has just described very well that it makes sense to look at the whole in terms of support for companies, which is also very important in itself: what are the measures on the tax side, what are direct subsidies, what are the different actual corporate loan arrangements? After all, the purpose of this arrangement is not to be a corporate loan arrangement, but to help companies with temporary difficulties to avoid bankruptcy, and if we succeed in doing so, of course it will be growth and savings in the future and, of course, very important. It was true that, when this proposal came and this was in the committee's expert opinion, it generally said, however, that this proposal was good and necessary — and then the question was asked whether it was really just 4 or whether it should be lower. Well, the majority of the committee ended up here, as has been said, the Finns of Finland ended up very close to the 3.5, and I can quite agree with the idea, which I am sure the representative Keskimäki points out from this protest from the Finns of Finland that the purpose of this proposal is not in a way to support all companies and it is not the task of the State to offer everyone a risk-free, even interest-free, loan, and these actual business credits are dealt with in a different context, and we are very much in the same line. Indeed, this statement, which we made in the section and which we approved in committee, had been made in a spirit of cooperation, because that is where we, as a Parliament as a whole, are calling on the government to follow up, as it were, on what it might be — we, as a section, are not in a position to determine, in practice in a few days, what is the most appropriate level of interest rates in this situation. This must be done in the light of information and, especially now that it is so opportune, President-in-Office, that in the next three weeks we will receive significant information when these large tax items come into payment, we will have more information on how much these arrangements will be applied for. In three weeks' time, we will be able to get more information about it, because these unpaid taxes will then be sent out to bear and will probably be followed up by more arrangements. We will depend on much greater information over the coming month, and, for example, the next amending budget will be made already in May, where it is already possible to come back to this if necessary. There will certainly not be a stage in the near future when companies do not need support. Unfortunately, it will be necessary for a long time, and then, in order to have enough money for everything, it is important for the State to look at the whole, which is the most effective means of supporting the business field in the longer term and in the future, and therefore, for example, it may well be possible that we need this extension of the length of this payment system. That is why we need time to be prepared by the government for these entities that we are going through in Parliament, to adopt reports, to influence, to send greetings, but we cannot do the preparatory work here, and that is why I believe that this effort was particularly well-founded, Mr President. Thank you all for your very good cooperation. We have really quickly and quickly come through big entities, and I sincerely thank all the parliamentary parties and also the government for the quick presentation it has made, and yes, we must also lift the hat on the parliamentary services, for example, the committee adviser who has done a great deal of work to get these things moving forward quickly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u22	Honorable Speaker! Yes, I can confirm what the section president, Mr Viitanen, and the chairman of the committee, Mr Koskinen, have said here that, in a good spirit, the opposition and the government are working in these difficult times and are trying to get proposals out of it so quickly that they will also help our industry. Here is one very good suggestion from the government. In a way, this proposal is a question of two good things: on the one hand, how to help these companies beyond this difficult situation, on the other hand, how to keep to the fact that the income side of the state is predictable and that the finances of the municipality are being maintained. After all, this benefits companies that still have business, sales go ahead and VAT runs, wages and salaries obligations remain. Well, now that we look at this whole thing, we always have to think about what context we are in. We'll make decisions on a fast schedule. Let us try to make as good decisions as we can, and let us try to put forward as good ideas as we can in the opposition. Why would I do that? When you look at this whole thing, we are quite satisfied with these measures in fact. They are in the right direction and support policy must be taken into account as a whole. This is one piece of it. And when I said that we were satisfied, in fact, there is also a very large part of the opposition's proposals, if not all of them, have already been implemented, of the proposals for measures which have been put forward either publicly or under a small table. Indeed, these are entities. We must acknowledge that the state is not a bank. It is not up to the State to grant favourable loans to all companies — it is certainly not, we are saying this quite well in this protest. This is a good proposal from the government: let us go from 7 to 4. We are proposing 3.5 in the protest because these deduction rights are there. Let us say that perhaps the more relevant part of our protest is that we are proposing an extension of this period until the end of the year. After all, in the government proposal this will end on 31 August, we will be presenting it until the end of the year, that is to say, four months' extension, which will then come to this speech by Mrs Kiljunen, the first part of which was well started with respect for life and the rest went into this policy. These are not politicisation; these are real proposals that would also be feasible, because I consider it an honour to present proposals that are feasible, and the preparation of the government's proposal and the economic calculations that were there would have made it possible for this 3.5, but they do not make it possible for other opposition parties to make this zero. As mentioned in this good government proposal, and the report contains this committee's proposal, we will then be able to look again at the situation at a later stage. It may be that if it is found in three weeks or a month and a half that things have changed in some direction, then changes will be made to this legislation as well. I therefore propose that the amendments to Article 1 of the objection be implemented and, at the same time, that this period be extended in accordance with the objection 1 until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u23	Mr President! The government's proposal on these tax flexibilitys is necessary and quite correct, but like the representative This is where the decline in interest on late payments was mentioned above, a sufficient reduction in interest rates, but not too much, is to be welcomed, undoubtedly a sensible approach. The lack of interest would not be a worthwhile arrangement, as the committee rightly states in its report. Furthermore, as Mr Vähämäki said, the interest rate of 3.5% should be maintained until the end of 20. It is good that the government will closely monitor the effects of this change on both the tax revenue and, more generally, the financial capacity of companies. Mr President! So I'm in favour of a representative. It's a small hill act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u24	Mr President! Unfortunately, Mr Heinonen has left, but he asked me the question of what would be the situation in which the government would be prepared to drop this interest rate on taxes due to zero if it is not in this fierce crisis situation right now. When he put that question directly to me, I would almost answer: there is no such situation. There are already a number of reasons why it is not reasonable that this interest rate on the tax due should be reduced to zero. There are several reasons why it does not make sense: Firstly, as Mrs Vähämäki rightly said here, it is not for the State to give zero interest-rate credits to all companies, as this would mean in this case, and that is the right approach to this point. And the second, which Mr Koskinen and Mr Viitanen here very strongly pointed out, that if we went to a level of zero per cent, this would lead to explosive tax losses, at least temporarily, to large tax losses, especially for the municipalities, but also for the state, and this would not make any economic sense either. In the sense of this kind of level that goes to zero, these financialpremises, with which we operate, do not even make sense to think. I would like to say to Mrs Vähämäki, when she was thinking in this direction, that 3.5% or 4%, that you have carefully explained that this 3.5% is the right figure. I would probably answer you in that way, when I am not an expert here directly, that probably 3.5 and 4%, both, are possible figures. I suppose no one can deny it here, and that is why the political argument is, in a way, why we have to take a different figure when we are actually talking about the same thing: let us be careful here, but let us give a clear relief to companies in terms of paying late taxes. That is why it came to the taste that this difference in percentages is not relevant here, but that the fundamental question here is that the tax due at all is not required to be paid immediately, i.e. it does not go into enforcement but can indeed be delayed legally. That is the main thrust of this proposal. Well, what's there is that percentage is really a comma slice, and that's why I made this point in your direction, that's why I made it clear that it was still such politics because of politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u25	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Administrative Committee on HaVM 6/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u26	Mr President! I shall therefore present the committee's report. The proposed amendment to the Act on central government transfers of basic municipal services will compensate municipalities for the delays in municipal, community and real estate tax revenue resulting temporarily from changes in tax systems in 20. Changes in payment arrangements will result in a temporary reduction in tax revenues for municipalities this year. The tax revenue of municipalities is estimated to decrease by a total of EUR 547 million, of which municipal taxes amount to approximately EUR 422 million, corporate taxes amount to EUR 45 million and real estate taxes to EUR 80 million. The tax revenue in question does not go completely unearned by the municipalities, but is delayed. However, the impact on the tax revenues of an individual municipality can be considerable. In its report, the Administrative Committee states that the euro amounts in the proposal are estimates. The committee calls for the tax losses caused by payment arrangements to be compensated by municipalities in the most appropriate and timely manner. It is therefore also necessary to monitor the implementation. The Committee on Administrative Affairs stresses that if the estimates set out in the proposal are significantly different from those made in the present case, the amount of compensation due to the delay in tax revenues and the interest to be deducted should be specified at a later stage in order to reflect what has been achieved, and this will naturally require a change in the law. These changes can be implemented, for example, in connection with draft amending budgets or the annual report of the Local Government Shares Act for the year 21. The Administrative Committee stresses that the loss of tax revenue caused by payment arrangements is only part of the drop in municipal tax revenue caused by the crisis. According to the estimate submitted to the committee, the corona virus epidemic causes a significant drop in municipal tax revenue of up to EUR 1 billion, but also an increase in municipal expenditure and losses, for example, in payment and rent income. The compensation now proposed does not compensate municipalities for these other economic effects of the corona epidemic or the generally weak state of the municipal economy. Therefore, municipalities need significant other compensation and support measures. Mr President! The Administrative Committee proposes that Parliament approve the Government's proposal with a few minor changes concerning the figures wrongly stated in the proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u27	Mr President! This report by the Committee on Administration has a connection with the proposal for a reduction in the late payment rate of the Committee on Finance, which has just been discussed. In this context, it is indeed important, as Mr Purra pointed out, to compensate municipalities for the delays in municipal, community and real estate income resulting from these changes in the tax arrangements, but the committee has rightly drawn attention to the fact that this is only a small part of the way in which municipalities are now suffering as a result of this problem of interest payments. Not only will the tax revenue go down as all economic activity decreases and decreases, thereby reducing the income earned by people and also the tax revenue paid by them, but the use of the various services of the municipalities will certainly collapse after this crisis. In particular, I wonder how we are able to provide support for children and young people, how, for example, social services, family support, child protection and similar problems are likely to become apparent only after this crisis has passed. In that sense, I can say that I hope that the government will now really give careful consideration to the way in which we should look at the government programme and consider what is feasible. It will certainly take us a long time to get many of these, could you say, back from normal routines in the municipalities, not to mention, for example, the penitent need for services there on the social and health side, especially on the health side? Many people have postponed going to a health center, going to a doctor, not seeing diabetes nurses and the like. It may indeed be that there is a lot of untreated trouble there, which will then come up like a blizzard when this corona crisis subsides somewhat. I am also concerned about the way in which people who have had a need for rehabilitation have been deprived of their health status, or, for example, when, on the mental health side, therapy has been missed by the majority, so how can these things be replaced with time? Indeed, Mr President, it is important that this proposal, which has been corrected in accordance with the report of the Committee on Administrative Affairs, is brought forward and that this compensation be made available to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u28	Mr President! The impact of the interest rate epidemic on the finances of municipalities has multiplied in relation to the size of this proposal. Local government finances will have to be considered from a completely new perspective after this crisis and, of course, during it. In this regard, too, it must be said that the government programme has already become obsolete and needs to be reconsidered with a very open mind. It should also be noted that the situations of municipalities vary widely. The interest epidemic treats other municipalities with a much harder hand than others, and we do not even know what will happen, which municipality will be subjected to these severe pressures at any time. After all, there were really difficult times in the municipal court even before this time of the corona. For example, plans were made in many municipalities to reduce the network of services related to the school activity, as the number of children decreases more quickly than anticipated. These problems are not out of the question either; they are still there before the municipalities. In addition, we can only anticipate and anticipate the problems in the social and health field that local government service networks are now facing as a result of the prolonged corona epidemic. In the case of children and schoolchildren who are now in home or distance education, including those who are less self-sustaining in this education on their own initiative, they will need support services, special education and a wide range of services. For that reason too, it would be wise for the government now to freeze the plan for extending compulsory education and to allocate the resources allocated to it, specifically to these support measures for education. This proposal is therefore good and necessary, and the committee's report is unanimous, but it is clear that the municipalities also need significant additional decisions. We do not even know the duration of the crisis and its overall impact on local government finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u29	Mr President! Indeed, municipalities do much of the work to safeguard people’s well-being and rights under exceptional circumstances and to make the lives of the residents work now and after the crisis period. There is great concern about the financial situation and the ability of municipalities to provide services. Here the previous speakers, Mr Essayah and Mr Räsänen, very well highlighted the most vulnerable people and the services they need to be able to secure, both now and after this crisis. The situation is that the tax and payment income of municipalities will decrease as the residents become unemployed and laid off and companies close their doors, and at the same time social and health expenditure will increase. Indeed, these figures are motivated by human distress and concern for livelihood, schooling, endurance and health. The Association of Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that the interest rate will reduce the local government finances by at least EUR 1.5 billion this year, but we really cannot yet know the overall impact at this stage. It is true that the majority of municipalities had financial difficulties even before the corona, but now the situation is very gloomy. Many municipalities have already had to resort to lay-offs despite government petitions. This is not sustainable, while there is great concern about the well-being of children and young people, about whether all children reach remote education, how risk groups can cope at home within four walls. Today was news of the economic situation in the cities of the Helsinki Metropolitan Area. The Helsinki economy has been estimated to deteriorate by at least half a billion because of the interest rate, and Espoo has calculated that a four-month epidemic with restrictions would make the city's budget with a deficit of approximately EUR 180 million and in Vantaa three months with exceptional conditions of EUR 100 million. The situation is certainly quite similar across the country. This will provide a scale for the necessary support measures. Mr President! With the Government proposal now under discussion, the State compensates municipalities for a tax deferral of less than EUR 550 million and the corresponding amount of euro would be deducted from compensation for municipal tax losses in the following year. Although this is not a matter of actual support, this measure is really needed and will facilitate the financial situation of municipalities. It is really important that this compensation corresponds to the actual tax losses incurred by municipalities. The euro amounts in the proposal are only estimates and, as the chairman of the committee said, the Administrative Committee intervened in this report and requires that the tax losses caused by payment arrangements in 2020 be compensated for by municipalities in the most appropriate and timely manner possible. The committee also notes that if the estimates differ significantly from those achieved, the amounts must be specified in order to reflect what has been achieved and, if so, it will require a change in the law. Mr President! The committee stresses what we all know here: this compensation is not enough to compensate for the effects of the interest rate on local government finances. Other support measures are needed, and the government, in the spending limits debate, set out a package of at least EUR 1 billion. The details of this support package must be examined in good cooperation with municipalities so that municipalities can take into account their impact in their own financial planning. In the referral debate in this Chamber, Mr Paatero said that discussions are taking place with municipal and hospital districts and that the aim is to avoid excessive red tape in the allocation of aid. It is important to continue this dialogue. Mr President! Municipalities also have a key role to play in how we emerge from this crisis in an ecologically sustainable way and by keeping everyone involved. The impact of the interest-rate crisis on local government finances will ultimately depend on the duration of the crisis, state aids and their successful targeting both businesses and municipalities, and the ability of the various actors in society to return to normal once this situation has been eased. The pandemic affects municipalities in different ways depending on the spread of the disease and the income and expenditure structure and the population and economic structure of the municipality. This should also be reflected in the allocation criteria for state crisis support. I would also like to point out that municipalities whose financing is very heavily based on municipal tax revenue are particularly vulnerable as a result of a wave of bankruptcy, lay-offs and redundancies. In the light of these experiences, too, it is necessary to re-examine the criteria and starting points of the tax-based State aid compensation scheme as a whole.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u30	Mr President! This point is a twin to the previous issue which we have already dealt with. In the previous paragraph, we made it possible, legitimate, to postpone taxes on companies. At this point, we have to look at the other side of what kind of loss it has to the municipalities. The gross content of the previous item in the loss or postponement of tax revenue is about half a billion euros for municipalities. We have already been talking about the significance of the corona virus and how this health side is being treated, and we are well aware that this health side of Finland is being treated through municipalities in particular. That is why, in all situations, we must also ensure that companies are able to function in a longer run, and above all ensure that public services and municipalities are able to function in a crisis situation. That is why this compensation system, which is now being created, is in full order and in that sense the government deserves its support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u31	Mr President! The municipalities will receive support for 2020, and that is good and absolutely necessary. The Korona virus disciplines the municipal economy, but how strong it is still impossible to estimate. The duration of the exceptional conditions and the measures for the recovery of municipalities and the state determine what will eventually happen to the local government finances. The municipalities are at the interface and implement decisions taken by the state. In other words, there is still a need for reception from the state, otherwise the whole municipal court will be in crisis. Fortunately, municipal tax revenue losses are being replaced by half a billion via an additional budget and a package of subsidies of at least EUR 1 billion is being prepared for the May amending budget. This shows that the situation in the municipalities is well known. Local government’s major problems are due not only to reduced tax revenues but also to growing social and health care expenditure. Social and health care expenditure increases due to specific care measures and measures to prevent the spread of the virus. The importance of social reform is even more important when the corona epidemic subsides. President! In some of the municipal activities, the exceptional situation affects the content and method of implementation of the operation but does not affect costs. This is a very difficult equation. However, municipalities must be prepared for increasing uncertainty about the development of local government revenue and expenditure. That is why we are also looking towards Parliament, and we must be prepared to do so. Of course, the measures taken by the municipalities themselves are also important. Thus, in this draft law, a new Article 36b is being added to the Act on central government transfers of basic municipal services, which compensates municipalities for delays in municipal, corporate and real estate tax revenue due to changes in tax payment arrangements in 20. It's a good way to support you, but of course more is needed. It is also clear, as many representatives here have wisely said, that the economic situation in the municipalities has been very varied even before the corona. Therefore, this interest rate shock is directed more strongly towards municipalities already operating on a weak economic basis. The Administrative Committee also wisely states that the tax loss caused by payment arrangements is only part of the drop in municipal tax revenue caused by the crisis. This epidemic causes a significant drop in municipal tax revenues, but also increases in municipal expenditure and losses, for example, in payment and rental income. President! The compensation now proposed does not compensate municipalities for these other economic effects caused by the corona epidemic or the poor general state of the municipal economy. Therefore, municipalities need significant other compensation and support measures. The government has already outlined the next steps to go through this. These include both the third additional budget for May and the budget line for August.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u32	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here about how we have now come against the municipalities, and very well, this needs to be supported. Just as the predecessor, Mr Kivisaari, made a good speech here, so that is not all, I am sure that this will continue to be necessary. The only thing I will say myself when I am there as a municipal decision-maker is that the local government finances have been very serious in the past, and this corona is going to make it worse than worse. That is what I was talking about in the previous sitting, but I would just like to say that 6.4. published the traditional status of basic services 2020 report. It is such a traditional estimate of what basic services are currently going on. After all, basic services are the traditional services provided by the municipality. The municipality organises, and the municipality produces very much or buys from a private or third sector. The status of basic services in 2020, as I said, it is published annually, always evaluates what is going on in relation to basic services. After all, basic services are the services that every single citizen needs. Unavoidably, you will not even notice how you always need them all. It is like social security that when you ask people if you are covered by social security, he says that I have never needed social security when each of us has been covered by social security in the course of his life. Basic services are also such that everyone needs them, for example education is a basic service. Well, what did that report on the status of basic services say: It was noted that the ageing of the population will challenge basic services quite a bit. That is what we have talked a lot about here: the ageing of the population produces a great deal of service needs, and so it should be, because we have to respond to the needs of the people who have built this country. It also challenges staff availability, this report states. The report also talks about the importance of youth work in preventing the exclusion of young people. In view of the fact that we have about 60,000 young people who have been estimated to be excluded or threatened by it, it is very important that this report also highlights this youth work in a broad sense. The report also states that the need for sports services will become more diverse — yes, yes, yes. There are new sports hobbies, and different hobbies must be enjoyed by young people and people of all ages, it is good. Exercise, if anything, will raise the health of the people, and in that respect too it is like putting money into a bank as these services are being put forward. We're talking about digital library services. According to estimates, their need will increase, as will the need for diverse cultural services. After all, culture is one that brings that prosperity. Early childhood education and basic education are changing," states the report. It has to do with the fact that our age groups are getting smaller and, of course, it is primarily reflected in early childhood education and basic education. Then there are the localities where the number of children will actually fall in relation to previous situations, and that will then just bring about how much of these basic services should be provided specifically for this age group: should they start doing more in cooperation with municipalities? Upper secondary school and vocational education are then the ones where this decline in the age groups will be seen with delay. Yes, there is a time here as the numbers of worms are recorded in this report, that is, good food for us decision-makers again. Well, as far as these effects of the corona are concerned, much has already been said about them. I would just like to highlight these costs of health care, specifically those of primary health care and special care. Now that we are prepared for it, we will go into this preparation and then, of course, we will go into the treatment of the corona, but then we will still have the treatment of all other diseases. I myself have already expressed my concern at the fact that we should not now have a downer without any urgency or urgency other than the treatment of corona patients. Now pack up to be that the municipalities have been driven down by urgent and urgent care because we are waiting for those corona patients, and that is quite wrong thinking. Now, however, all services should be maintained, otherwise we will have a really, really large sum to pay for long-term illnesses when mental health problems, substance abuse problems, for example, when problems with cardiovascular diseases, cancers, dementia, depression, mental health problems and diabetes, for example, get worse if we do not deal with them at the moment. Another important issue for municipalities will be to support businesses in order to keep them up and to create jobs in municipalities. It's the guarantee of the survival of the municipalities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u33	Mr President! As Mr Elo said — he was already able to leave — the Administrative Committee produced a unanimous report, but it was also unanimously pointed out that when we go to the spending limits debate to move forward, and also with this decision, the losses of the municipalities must be genuinely compensated for, the real losses, and we must see that the municipalities are also treated equally here. After all, it is very difficult to assess the effects of the interest rate on the municipal level. In my own municipality, I am the chairman of the council and the chairman of the provincial government in the province, and these scenarios are being considered there at every level and we are wondering where we are going. It is certainly not possible to know because it is not known in this Chamber and it is not known anywhere else in the world where the corona is taking the municipalities. There's a lot of things that were listed here. There is the situation of families, there is the situation of education, there is the situation of children, there is unemployment, there is the situation of businesses, and all these are building up these uncertainties for municipalities. I have received quite a lot of feedback now from the municipal leaders — of course from my own province, from my constituency, but also from around Finland — and the municipal leaders have been thinking very much about what will then be the distribution criteria for the municipalities in the future additional budget when we start thinking about these future divisions: whether it is the size of the municipality, whether it is possibly the revenue generated by municipal taxes or what it is. There is little concern about whether municipalities of different sizes will then be treated equally, because in a small municipality, say, 300,000 is quite a lot more than in a large municipality in relation to that municipality's tax revenue. For example, I can tell you from my own municipality that if the compensation there is 300,000 and the real loss is 900,000, it is a really big gap in the municipal economy. This should then be considered in the preparatory work and, above all, in the amending budget, what the allocation criteria are. All in all, the Administrative Committee was very unanimous on this issue, and I am sure that there is a common concern. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u34	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 13/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed. — Ojala-Niemelä, Chairman of the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u35	Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has produced a report on the regulation adopted under the Emergency Act on derogations from the conditions of employment in social services and health care, among other things. The committee proposes that the regulation should not be repealed. This is therefore a so-called implementing regulation under the Emergency Act. With regard to such regulations, Parliament has the right to carry out ex post checks, i.e. Parliament decides whether the regulation should be repealed. The Regulation concerns a derogation from the conditions of employment and a restriction on the right of dismissal. The Regulation applies to staff employed in health care and social services, rescue services, emergency services and police services. The Regulation is practically the same content as the previous Regulation adopted under the Emergency Act on the same subject matter. The current regulation is in force until 13.5.2020. Although the committee's proposal for a decision is that the regulation should not be repealed, the committee nevertheless had some critical comments on the regulation and its explanatory memorandum. Firstly, the previous comments made by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on the necessity or necessity of certain measures had not been properly taken into account. Secondly, the scope of the regulation is unclear in some respects. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also attaches great importance to the fact that the explanatory statement of the regulations contains sufficient impact assessments and information on the use to date of the competences of the Emergency Act. In addition, the memorandum of reasons should specify and explicitly justify the need for the present implementing regulation and the means chosen therein and their temporal extension in relation to the information available to the Government on the spread of the epidemic. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that the powers of the Emergency Act should not be introduced on a light basis or in the interests of certainty, and that the powers of the Emergency Act should be introduced quickly. In addition, the committee emphasises the principles of necessity and proportionality relating to the application of the Emergency Response Act and the consideration of Finland's international human rights obligations. The committee will also consider the question of the abolition of the exercise of powers as a matter of necessity. After all, according to the Emergency Act, at the end of the exceptional circumstances, it is necessary to stop applying the Emergency Act. Similarly, in the event of the expiry of a condition of application of a provision of the Emergency Act, the adoption or extension regulation needs to be amended accordingly. According to the committee, the Government must closely monitor the fulfilment of the conditions for the application of the Act on Preparedness and the powers provided for therein, as well as any problems that may arise in the application of the Act. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the need to assess the possibilities of abolishing the regulations adopted under the Emergency Act. The Committee stresses that for such an assessment, as well as for the assessment of the effectiveness of individual competences, the Government must have a sufficiently precise picture of the application of the competences of the Emergency Act, including in the municipalities and the private sector. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u36	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs for presenting the committee's report and for concluding that the implementing regulation will not be repealed but will continue. The previous week, in the referral debate, we discussed these regulations and also the context in which these regulations should be applied to the aspects of the Constitution. It is indeed extremely important that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has carefully gone through this necessity in this way and, as the President-in-Office said, the situation picture, the correct and timely picture of the situation, is extremely important. But in this situation, when there is a lot of information about this virus that we do not know yet, and when there are messages from that world all the time, for example, about the time of incubation or the time of preservation of the virus or the way it spreads, I think that it is probably better that we in Finland, for example, continue with these exceptional conditions and regulation, because in these critical areas, which this regulation is also concerned, the peak weeks of the epidemic are still ahead. To what extent, then, we may have to apply these possibilities provided by the regulation, it is certainly better to be there as if they existed for certainty than then, so that we would see that we do not now have the opportunity, for example, to obtain more resources or the possibility of derogating from the various working time arrangements and others. In that sense, it is better to prepare for the worst, especially when it comes to such an epidemic, where there is still so much that we have not been able to solve. Once again, thank you to the committee for your good and speedy work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u37	Mr President! Here we are now continuing to use the powers that will enable both private and public employers to make a significant contribution to workers' rights: breaks, rest periods, holidays and even lay-offs. Many of these sectors have already been burdened, and it is therefore of course very important that this is done carefully and that all the means be used to ensure that workers' rights are realised. The powers of the Emergency Act should not be introduced on a light basis or in the interests of certainty, but on the other hand, such as the representative. Essayahkin pointed out that anticipation is an essential part of the preparedness law, and this has now been noted, especially in the introduction of employee-related powers, because it will inevitably take a moment to carefully identify, first of all, who is available, all the means available before we have to deal with these core workers' rights and then, on the basis of this picture of the situation, we will hopefully plan the shifts forward, because in these exceptional circumstances, for example, it may prove very challenging to organise childcare during the shift. Therefore, anticipation is an essential element, especially when it comes to such competences in relation to employment and key occupational groups. On the other hand, we have the condition that too much should not be anticipated, that is to say that this requires quite a balance with how early it is, how broad it is to be in anticipation of the introduction and application of the Emergency Act, especially when this really gives significant power to private employers, too, from the public authorities. Indeed, we are now developing a completely new interpretation of how early and in line with what estimates can be anticipated, and it would therefore always be good for the committee to get as precise a situation as possible from the field as to how many people have been able to work on the basis of normal powers, normal procedures and how likely it is that people should be obliged to work under the conditions that would result in people’s holidays, rest periods and other rights being interfered with. Today, in the context of the second regulation, we have already seen a very thorough and good explanatory memorandum on the point where social and health care services are being restricted, and it would be good to see that, in general, these explanatory notes go in such a direction that the situation picture is always reviewed as accurately as possible, giving the best possible preliminary assessment of where we are going and then going through the adverse effects, and then we can do the anticipation, the legal assessment that is necessary under these exceptional circumstances. In other words, we already have very good models of what the explanatory memorandum looks like, on the basis of which it is as easy as possible to decide that, exceptionally, powers can be increased for employers, for example, and it would be good now to move as far as possible towards these good practices. This has happened in a very short time, and it is of course worth thanking the Government for this. But there is still room for further development, as the report points out, and now we should continue to do this good work to ensure that people's fundamental rights are guaranteed as comprehensively and thoroughly as possible. However, this creates precedent as to what the application of the Emergency Response Act looks like, and it is therefore also important to act with great care.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u38	Mr President! I would like to thank the committee for its excellent handling and for the thorough examination of this matter. The committee made comments on this, which will then be taken into account if the regulation is to be extended by a new regulation because of the epidemic situation. It is good that there is also a dialogue with the Constitutional Committee. These perspectives can then be used in the future. It was stated that, according to this text of the regulation, the use of derogations for annual leave and working and rest periods requires that this be necessary in view of the corona virus epidemic, and that the Committee does not believe that this wording is sufficiently clear that the purpose of the changes is precisely to ensure the adequate functioning of health care and other essential functions of society. With regard to the necessity of these exceptional measures, the starting point for regulation is that the introduction of powers will only be possible if normal legislative instruments are not sufficient to safeguard activities. The second point here was, in terms of health care and social services, that further clarification should be made when this personal scope is then decided, and that the explanatory memorandum to the regulation would indicate this. In this respect, work will be carried out with the relevant administrative sectors, i.e. the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of the Interior. It is there, and that information will then be available. The STM has already provided guidance on the personal scope of the regulation. Then there was the point that in this explanatory memorandum it would be good to present impact assessments and the possibilities of alternative measures as well as a benefit-risk weight. At this stage of the epidemic, all this, the use of these exceptional opportunities, has been very limited. As has been said here, it is also absolutely essential for this situation to remain unforeseeable, and these measures used in this regulation are made possible by the Emergency Act, which means that they cannot be used in other situations. Then there was the observation that the committee required monitoring of the functioning and conditions of the regulation. This will be followed up by the relevant administrative sectors. I believe that this has already been launched by the STM, because it has to be where this activity is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u39	Mr President! At the end of the day, when the minister is here and I am a health person myself. So I am absolutely in favour of these, while you pointed out here that these are just the last steps to be taken, that all the others will be taken first. But I have been thinking a lot about this myself in that hospital district administration. After all, we have now started to train people in intensive care from the operating room and those with surgical anesthesia. All those who are now able to move there quickly have already started training. But now we need not only to take from inside but also to move people to other places, including there. We need backup staff, we need this spare staff to expand, and then we need these working obligations. Most likely, they may still have to be used. Well, there's a system here that you can use these work obligations for two weeks and then one time you can renew it. That certainly makes sense, and these people are only placed where they can be. And when it's a short-term job, of course, you have to have a short orientation, because you can't use the whole job for orientation. Now I have been thinking very much about how we have prepared ourselves in the regions for the fact that there are actually staff and skilled staff, for example, for special medical care, especially when people have to be transferred from one place to another. Well, I'm sure we have backup. Then we will certainly have those who have just retired. Then we may have — in theory — people who are in another field, for example in shops. They have left the health sector, had health education and then gone to another sector. It may now be that they are laid off and are interested in coming to the former field of education, that is, the health sector. But they need education, and it is not quite so simple that we think that, well, we are now getting to know someone who has been out of the business for some time. I am therefore asking the Minister a written question on how to ensure that, as a cooperation between health organisations and universities of applied sciences and secondary education, such a training programme is already being launched, short-term precision training for those interested in participating in such situations, if necessary. For example, in the Hospital District of South Ostrobothnia we have now made a survey of whether there are people outside our house who are interested in coming back. We will have those clarifications here shortly, and now we have what is known as recruitment. But if things get bad, then we can't spend too much time in that orientation, so I think we should increase some kind of reserve pool already, and that would require such short-term forms of training. I hope, as well, that Minister Haatainen is also a pro-educational person, that there will be some small development money, for example, to make such a pilot, which would then be scaled all over Finland, because now that I have done some random tests in different places, there have not yet been any such training. We have started in hospitals and started to train our own people to move, but not in such a way that we are training the people outside. And I would have a perfectly clear definition of how this should be done, but I think we would need such a small incentive, and I believe that Minister Haatainen would be an excellent minister to give that incentive.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u40	I will catch up on this proposal — Mr Risiko has good ideas, and they will give us the experience of previous tasks. I myself have been thinking about this: — here we go to the territory of the STM and to the medical districts and to the municipalities — we should be doing these things proactively with our own staff, and that is where they are doing them. There was an example in the public domain of Finnair’s flight crew, where we know that there are also a lot of nurses who have been trained, and some of them are coming back, but we also know how fast things are moving forward in health care, and skills are not going to be maintained if they are not in their duties, and this kind of accurate training would be really in order. I will raise this issue. However, it is good to raise these ideas in every debate, and then we will be able to secure the availability of staff on the Terveys side. Then there are these spare staff arrangements and the fact that more people are being recruited: it is one good way of getting and then training these people who have moved outside the sector. They can then perform basic tasks that they can handle, and at the same time, while working there, they will be trained to be more demanding, because there are specialised areas where competence needs to be specified and updated. So this is a very good idea, and I will bring it up with Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u41	President! I have been thinking about the fact that when you have this obligation to work, then you also have to ensure that you know how to do it, because we can't just stick it where it hurts and health care goes so fast, for example, the pharmaceutical sector. I understand very well that it is not the intention that those who are obliged to do their job should be put where they want to be, of course, not that it is a patient safety issue, but I believe that patient safety now requires that there is also a system of education under consideration. I have been thinking that it would be such a joint education, study and these social welfare organisations. It could be a week—two. At the moment, of course, the situation is that very large groups cannot be trained, they are small groups. But at the moment, for example, while waiting for those patients in hospitals, we also have the same way that not all nurses are fully employed, so they could also be used as trainers. This is a pretty good arena now, yes, and a good opportunity to show the Finnish model of this type of activity, that we will immediately be trampled on this type of education. And I'd be happy to help you with that, because we've already been thinking in South Ostrobothnia that we'd start one of these. I've been trying to figure out if there's any such development money. I understand that it has to come partly from our own money, but if we could get it for a pilot like this. Of course it should be scaled up for society as a whole, but that we should be ready for it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u42	The 5th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 14/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u43	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee is to be assessed by a Government decree adopted pursuant to Sections 88(3) and 109(2) of the Emergency Act. The Regulation lays down temporary restrictions on the obligation to organise early childhood education and education and training. According to the Regulation, the municipality may waive the responsibility for organising early childhood education if the child’s care can be otherwise arranged by the parents or other guardians. According to the Regulation, the organiser of education within the meaning of the Basic Education Act is not obliged to organise the education or other activities referred to in the Basic Education Act as local education at school or at any other place of education. This provision also allows for a deviation from the scope of teaching. In addition, the provision limits the obligation of the education provider to organise, among other things, education support and student care in accordance with the Basic Education Act. The Regulation also provides for restrictions on the obligation to organise other education. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government decree should not be repealed. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the explanatory memorandum to the regulation currently being assessed does not provide sufficient detail and explicitly justify the need for this implementing regulation and the means chosen therein. Regulation regulation is based on a situation picture that is more than two weeks old. In the view of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the explanatory memorandum to the regulation does not provide an adequate basis for assessing the need to extend the restriction. According to a report received by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, despite the shortcomings of the explanatory memorandum at this stage of the epidemic, it is still possible to estimate that the closure of day-care centres and educational institutions is still, to some extent, an effective means of slowing down the spread of a dangerous infectious disease. In the Committee's view, it is also important that, apart from early childhood education, it is not a question of dropping out of education, but mainly of moving from close-to-distance education to distance education. In the Committee's view, regulation is essentially appropriate, in the light of the study received, necessary and with a relatively short period of time, also taking into account the proportionality requirement. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the need to ensure effective equality between children and young people, in particular those who carry out their compulsory education because of Article 6 of the Constitution and the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. In implementing these restrictions, particular attention must be paid to the realisation of learning and schooling support, in particular for children and young people in need of child protection measures. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws the attention of the Government to the fact that libraries are closed from the point of view of the realisation of fundamental cultural rights. In the Committee's view, it is clear that the lack of access to textbooks and other study material from a library based on the free-of-charge of lending also leads to the right of everyone to receive in accordance with their abilities and specific needs, without prejudice to lack of resources, including non-basic education, in order to reduce the level playing field. The Government should explore ways to improve the effective equality of students in this respect. The regulation does not provide for school meals. According to the Constitutional Committee, the Government has had to closely monitor compliance with the conditions for the application of the Act on Preparedness and the powers provided for in the Act, as well as any problems with the application of the law on school meals. The committee also stresses the need to ensure the implementation of fundamental rights through appropriate guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u44	Mr President! Thank you once again to the chairman of the committee for a good and clear presentation. With regard to this regulation, too, there is no doubt that it should be extended, but the chairman of the committee quite rightly pointed out that these regulations, which we are now deciding to continue with today, are probably the ones for which perhaps the first question should be asked as to whether it might then be necessary to go ahead and repeal them at some point. I am referring here mainly to what is happening in other Nordic countries at the moment, and also to the kind of information we have now received about the disease. So, at an early stage, when we were very convinced that children and young people were particularly involved in the spread of this disease, it seems that at the moment we may have come to a slightly different conclusion on this issue. Of course, it is important that the committee has also drawn attention to this issue of school meals. There is now a considerable amount of feedback from the field that guidance is partly unclear and confusing. Some municipalities have started to deal with the matter as a sort of extension of income support and even to ask questions about their parents' income data and other similar. So now, on this point, we would like to see extremely clear instructions from the Finnish National Board of Education. As I recall, I thought I saw the Minister of Education's tweet on the subject, in which he spoke of recommending, strongly recommending the organisation of school meals. I think that at the moment there would be a need for some sort of wire guide in the municipalities on this issue. That is how much of this feedback comes from, and then there have also been very different solutions in the municipalities. The second point that has also been very well addressed in committee concerns libraries and precisely the way in which libraries support education and, for example, the fact that a person has access to non-basic education. It will then come to the way in which learning material is available, and it is good that this issue has been raised. I think that the closure of the library does, at the moment, have signals in society, for example, for people who do not have the Internet or a computer themselves, and many have used the library services in that regard, too, to deal with matters. Now, especially in society, when it is said that as many people as possible would do these things at a distance, it is very difficult when we do not have this type of service. In Finland, as a society, we are at the point where we do not have much of these online cafes in many countries, and they too would, of course, be closed in this situation anyway, which means that we do not have a lot of places where people can go to use these IT services in public spaces without any expense. Mr President! It is indeed important for this to continue, but it is now particularly important for this regulation to monitor how this situation picture develops and at what stage this regulation can then be abandoned.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u45	Ärade talman, Mr President! Vi diskuterar nu en förlängning av distansundervisningen och de åtgärder som har gjorts koh tidigare. Det auri har ju varit en valdigt omtumlande tid för många fabillioner, och hela samhället, kan man vat då egentligen säga. Men vi har samtidigt också lärt oss en hel del av den korssen, och till exempel i skolorna gick man först kanske mycket ut ifrån att man skulle ge uppgifter. Nu har det blivit mera sådana rai digitala classica classrumsplattformar, och det är Jätteviktigt att föra en sådan arvialog, en social dialogue, mellan barnen och lärna. Ofta är läraren den trygga personen under skoldage, men ändå har det kommit många frågor kring att “harjagnågrakompisariframtiden “ochsåvidare,sådettäjärganskaviktigtocksåmeddenhärsocialaktantakten. Och just precis som ledamot Essayah lyfte fram ox är det ox alltså kanske förmodligen det första som vi måste göra, att som en heletsgrandskning se om vi ska fortsätta med de toh restrictionerna. Det har framkommit att det är stora skillnader mellan kommunerna i regionerna, och mellan skolorna också, i hur man fullföljer den koh undervisningen. Det är ju kommunerna som anordnar det ox, och det är viktigt att de ser till att de ger en jämlik och bra undervisning till de barn som går i skolorna. Men samtidigt vill jag också lyfta fram den pedagogiska friheten som lärna har, för det är trots allt så att de är proffs och de gör ett wastebra jobb. Det kom också upp koh om utrustning, datautrustning, och ur ett jämlikhetsperpektiv. Vi har fått rapporter om att man inte har tagit fram datorerna förrän den rauh veckan, och det är nog lite vält, men battre sent än aldrig, att dataförbindelserna fungerar, men också att datasäkerheten är i skick. Här pratades just om scolbespisningen, och den har ju diskutreats en hel del. Där vill jag ändå lyfta fram att det ju ska vara praktiskt öjligt att få i kommunerna. Vi ska komma ihåg att det är långa avstånd till exempel i östra Finland och Lappland, långa avstånd då skolskjutsarna inte finns, så man måste få det att fungera.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u46	Mr President! ‘Although a single child hasthe bestplace of refuge, too many children havethe For some children, staying at home is at present a higher risk than a virus.’ So writes psychologist Maaret Kallio in his blog. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges us to guarantee children the right to protection and care, a share of society's resources and the right to participate in decision-making and social life concerning themselves. Decisions must primarily take into account the best interests of the child. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses that the best interests of a child must be considered for an individual child on a case-by-case basis and on a case-by-case basis, including in the application of the rules on exceptional circumstances. The Government has decided to continue remote schooling until 13 May. Now we have some experience in distance education. The whole has worked surprisingly well, even though the differences in digital skills between schools and teachers have also come to light. Maybe it's a start for a lot of people. There have been other challenges. The future application regulation of the Act of Preparedness is now under ex post review here in Parliament. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the regulation should not be repealed. It is worth considering whether the Convention on the Rights of the Child will also be implemented for all children during distance education. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the implementation of the Treaty on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This agreement is also in force under exceptional circumstances. The compulsory education of all children must be ensured equally. Special attention should therefore be paid to the situation of vulnerable children and children in child protection. Psychologist Maaret Kallio continues in his blog: “For some child home butter a place more dangerous than a basket. The danger lies within the walls of homes. In exceptional circumstances, the atmosphere may become more risky even in homes where there has been no risk of violence or problem drug use in the past.” If we cannot influence this, the bill may be large afterwards. Johanna Linner Matikka, expert at the Federation of Mother and Child Homes and Shelter Homes, has found that the virus is stupendously difficult but that domestic violence is 100% damaging. According to Kaarlo Simojoki, an A-Clinic head doctor, 77 per cent of alcohol is consumed in Finland normally at home. One in four children has experienced the fear of alcohol consumption by their parents, but now more and more adults are calming themselves with alcohol. In fact, alcohol sales have now increased under exceptional circumstances. It is good that the explanatory memorandum to the regulation also assesses the negative effects of the exceptional conditions and restrictions in schools. Learning outcomes can be weakened by someone, studies can be prolonged, social problems increase, inequalities can arise between students. Harms can accumulate in vulnerable children and young people, such as those suffering from learning difficulties. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs notes that such adverse effects will increase as exceptional circumstances persist. It is good that the regulation has added, for example, the implementation of aid where possible to those vocational schoolchildren who cannot survive without specific support. Mr President! The National Institute for Health and Welfare has assessed that restrictive measures are necessary until the end of May. However, since the disease situation is unpredictable and is constantly changing, I hope that the situation will be constantly monitored and reviewed before the government decides how school work will continue after mid-May. I personally hope, as Mr Andersson did in Question Time today, that the dismantling of the restrictions on school work will begin at school with the smallest schoolchildren. Consideration should also be given to opening schools by region or zone, depending on the disease situation and safety. Why do I hope so? If we return to normal school routines before summer, it could improve the management of life and the healthy rhythm of life for many. Parents could also take a breath before summer vacation and return to their work as far as possible. This could also be a necessary checkpoint for children who have been challenged to keep in touch during distance education. The situation would also serve as a checkpoint to view the situation of children in need of special support as a result of distance learning. Children falling and at risk of social exclusion could be picked up through stronger support measures. This would be a good place to work together in a multi-professional way between professionals in different fields. It is important to prepare the way out of the crisis as widely as possible. I would like to thank the Government and the Minister for Education for the comprehensive package of support for children and young people that is being prepared in this regard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u47	Honorable Mr. Speaker! As usual, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has done a good job, and on the basis of that, a few comments have been made. The continuation of distance education arrangements in comprehensive schools and the whole field of education is without doubt justified. However, even under exceptional circumstances, education should be carried out as well as possible in order to reduce the need for support during the autumn term. Remote education, as Mr Kinnunen said, has also given rise to concerns about children who do not participate in distance teaching or families in general who have not been contacted at school. A situation comparable to such unreported school absence always requires a student maintenance perspective. So there is no difference between any time we live in. I know that teachers have long antennae for homes, but they need multiprofessional help. It is therefore contradictory that part of student care services have been reduced in municipalities, although their need is probably greater than ever before. The transition to remote activities also in relation to student care services is understandable in itself, but it should always be possible to meet students and students face-to-face, taking into account the risk of infection and hygiene. We need creativity. We need common sense. There are, of course, many different digital opportunities, but also opportunities for discussion outside. It's not as hard as it is. President! Teachers have a good job problem, but this prolonged state of emergency and also the floating layoffs are trying to cope. This same logic also supports homes. Therefore, the municipalities that carry out the will of society and the state should be in full support of the ability of schools and homes. This is precisely the prevention of tournament fatigue mentioned by Mr Ollikainen. In particular, it is important that we also prepare for the aftermath of exceptional circumstances with sufficient seriousness. It is clear that we will be able to normalise this situation to schools and educational institutions for students and students who have taken drastic backward steps when adequate support networks or syllabuses have not reached the finish line. President! The second degree, polytechnics and higher education institutions themselves have been able to organise themselves quite well with special arrangements for the implementation of the courses. However, a young person’s isolation can challenge the progress of many students when there are no close contacts around him or her and the support of educational institutions and the higher education community. The challenges of sustainability and motivation to study will accumulate as the situation continues. However, current resources allow for relatively limited support. This is a fact. It is also clear that attention should be paid to the quality of distance education. Of course, distance learning cannot mean that the right of a high school student or a professional student to learn and interact with a teacher is reduced to a minimum. Parliament's Committee on Education, which is also here, has drawn attention to the fact that, under exceptional circumstances, teachers have been given a great deal of discretion in the organisation of basic education and its support, which has led to regional differences and differences between municipalities and schools. However, I would see that the main reason for these differences is digital technology and its pedagogical competence. There has been a great deal of fragmentation in this respect. It is clear that such so-called chalkboards have had a longer journey to leap into the digital age. President! What matters now is that the wounds in the corona spring would be kept to a minimum. These wounds may include a decrease in learning outcomes, an increase in studies and an increase in social problems. Harmful effects can accumulate, especially for the most vulnerable pupils, such as those with learning difficulties. Yet, Mr President, there will be a time when things will be better than ever after.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u48	Mr President! When we talk about education, the importance of a controlled and structured exit strategy is very much emphasised. This has now been emphasised by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs in all its reports, because, of course, the exit strategy covers all competences and the abolition of all competences at some point, but when we talk about measures that affect all children and young people and therefore the whole of Finland's future, the importance of the abolition of planned exceptional circumstances is particularly emphasised. There has already been a worrying message that not all children can be contacted, or that when they can be contacted, there is nothing but crying at the end of the line, which is, unfortunately, the situation is worrying in many respects. Of course, the municipalities are now looking for the best ways to support these children and young people, but it is clear that this support is needed not only for this acute situation but also for a long time to come, and these exceptional circumstances will certainly have a significant impact on how the future of the Finnish education system is to be seen in general in years' time. That is why we now need to consider this acute situation as to how these restrictions could be lifted. Could they be abandoned on a regional basis? What will be done when perhaps at least some of the children and young people reach school in late May? How will it be possible to ensure that we act safely but, on the other hand, hopefully close the learning gaps as effectively as possible? These are all huge questions for both the education provider and children and young people, and that is why it would be the right time to start answering these questions. It is difficult to anticipate, but it would give great security to many if at least some indication could be given of what will happen when it comes to the end of May, what will happen when it comes to autumn, what will happen when, at some point, we go back to school, what will happen at that point. That is why, in this situation in particular, this exit strategy is important and we are certainly talking about a period of many years. This debate is often focused on children and I believe that this is entirely in order. Children are in an exceptionally vulnerable position, many have been in such a situation before this. Children cannot take care of themselves in the same way as college students, for example. However, under these exceptional circumstances, it is worth considering how the situation of students or those seeking to study in higher education can also be considered as fair as possible. It is great that universities have now announced that they will keep as much of the selection tests as possible remote, but unfortunately not yet very accurate information is available — universities have said that by the end of April at the latest they will tell us what to do more. Even before this, it would be good to have some kind of interim information. Now that thousands of college students are stressed and reflect on their future, it would be fair to tell as early as possible who will be touched by the remote tests, what they may be like and how to prepare for them. This is a really exciting phase for those young people and parents who are now applying to study, so it would be good to have some information from the universities before the end of April – although of course making these arrangements is certainly a challenge there too. This is everyone in the emergency situation. It has now become apparent that those studying in higher education also face challenges due to exceptional circumstances, even though many universities have been admirably able to develop remote practices. In some respects, these remote practices will hopefully also remain permanent in order to promote, for example, continuous learning. At the same time, however, not all materials, for example, are yet available electronically. There may be a shortage of electronic books, licence fees may even be more expensive than paper books, and then the libraries offering those paper books will be closed. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs now draws attention to the fact that libraries play a crucial role in guaranteeing equal learning opportunities for people. This is especially the case in higher education institutions, where a lot of people have been fortunate enough to have a library of their own, for example, to offer a comprehensive opportunity to study without having to buy any textbooks themselves. The question should now be whether there are safe ways to bring the books to the students, however. Could some pick-up practices or other opportunities be organised that would prevent people from getting rid of their learning materials? This situation is certainly already straining the graduation of many, and then, of course, there are issues such as student support. In fact, the time has been pro-active, and now that the summer comes, it is certainly necessary to further refine the guidelines so that no student is left without a living, at least because of a lack of information. The strong message from the Government has been that every student's livelihood will be secured either through student support or through unemployment benefit or income support, and hopefully this message has been reached by young people, and hopefully these practices will prove to be as smooth in everyday life as they are designed to be. All in all, this situation also requires significant financial contributions, which is why it is great that the Government has now announced that it will draw up a package focusing specifically on children and young people, which will be announced in May when major economic decisions are already taken on the future of Finland. This package is very important and there is a need to ensure that there is broad support for it, because these tracks are actually being repaired for a long time, and then we must guarantee that at least the future of children and young people will not be caught for money.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u49	Mr President! I am bringing greetings to the Committee on Education and Rural Development, and since this opinion is so long, I will divide this into two parts, and in this first phase I will address in particular our general positions and our support for children and young people and families. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs considers that the continuation of the restrictive measures provided for in the new implementing regulation to prevent corona infections is highly justified and necessary. We got a good report on it and heard experts. The committee, in its previous opinions on implementing regulations in its field of activity, renews what it has said in the past, and stresses the importance of doing everything possible to protect people from coronavirus infections. At the same time, we stress that in an exceptional situation, however, every possible means must be taken to ensure that early childhood education, education and education are organised in the best possible way, taking into account the circumstances, to support children, students and students. The starting point continues to be that early childhood education, education and training are organised in accordance with the relevant legislation and that a decision is taken at local level to implement restrictive measures under the new implementing regulation. The rules adopted by the Regional State Administrative Agency under the Act on communicable diseases must also be taken into account in the arrangements for the period of exemption from education and training. According to new decisions adopted by the regional government authorities on 8 April, schools, educational institutions, universities and universities of applied sciences, as well as adult education centres and other basic education and artistic education facilities still need to be kept closed. However, in the new decision, the derogations from the closure order have been extended compared to previous decisions, which the committee considers necessary. In addition to the teaching of certain categories of pupils, access to and use of premises is also allowed, for example, for the care and meals of pupils in close education, and for the provision of learning support, certain services and benefits, such as meals and pupil care, for pupils in remote education, provided that necessary protective measures are taken. The need to mark this here in our statement came because it is now... And this was a good thing that this had been corrected because there was feedback that those who were in remote education and needed tutoring, and it should be done as local education, had not been allowed to go to that school in some schools, and it was good that this came up now. In the Committee's view, the clarifications contained in the new implementing regulation in relation to the previous implementing regulation are very much to be welcomed. This regulation and its explanatory memorandum have now clarified, among other things, the student's right to a free school meal, and that is a good thing. Despite the clarifications that guide local decision-making, the organiser of basic education retains wide discretion as to how it organises education and other activities as non-local education, and how it organises support for learning, services, benefits and student care in exceptional circumstances for non-participants. The Committee's expert consultation revealed that there has been some confusion in the organisation of the activities of exceptional circumstances at local level as to what decisions, the organisation of education in general and the organisation of individuals, need to be changed. Referring to its earlier opinion, the Committee on Education and Rural Development notes that the statement of reasons contains a limited assessment of the case for decision-making of the exceptional situation in the light of Article 21 of the Constitution, given that, in exceptional circumstances, the organisers of education have been given a great deal of discretion in the organisation of basic education and its support. The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media also draws attention to regional, local and school differences, which I am sure will be the case, but we must always consider the final impact and impact. The committee attaches great importance to finding solutions to ensure that students who are in the final stages of their studies are completed so that these arrangements do not unduly shift because of the exceptional situation. Graduation is a prerequisite for further studies or transition to working life. That is why we consider it important to take care of it. The committee has regularly followed and will continue to monitor the organisation of early childhood education, education and education under these exceptional circumstances, including by consulting the Ministry of Education and Culture and the National Board of Education — so next week we will continue. The committee, referring to its earlier opinions, continues to pay particular attention to the implementation of the rights of children and young people who are subject to compulsory schooling, with concern about the adequate and uniform implementation of basic free education, education and schooling for all those who are required to do so. During the current exceptional situation, a large proportion of pupils study in remote education at home, so that the teacher's ability to monitor the conditions and progress of their students is considerably lower than the normal situation. Remote education has caused concern for children who do not participate in remote assignments and families who are not contacted at school. It is very important that the situation of these children and families be tackled quickly in schools. It is important that education and student care professionals observe the well-being of all pupils, both those in close and distance education more closely. In order to ensure psychosocial support, cooperation between education and out-of-school services, in particular social services and child protection and youth work, will be emphasised in exceptional circumstances. According to the expert opinion received by the committee, there are indications that since the beginning of distance education, child protection notifications have decreased. There was also a discussion as to what might be the cause. Our estimate is that probably some of the children will be deprived of the help they need. Children and families in vulnerable and critical conditions who have had difficulties in life management, for example, even before the introduction of restrictive measures are particularly concerned. After all, there are about 73,000 children in child welfare, many of whom are part of their safety net, including the school and the help provided in it. That is why such a dropout of school can be very disastrous for this child and family. Both the previous and the new implementing regulations have taken into account pupils who have received a special grant decision in such a way that their right to contact teaching is not limited in any grade of the year. The committee considers that the reasons for the derogation for pupils are very good and draws attention to the fact that not all vulnerable children of compulsory school age are particularly supported and therefore are not entitled to contact education under the Regulation unless there are smaller children in lower grades, and we have an important concern that they too will receive very good support. I will continue with the next speech.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u50	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Risiko, for presenting the opinion of the Committee on Culture. In fact, in this context, I would like to draw attention to just two things, or in fact to one thing, which involves two different educational institutions, namely these educational institutions for liberal education, both the adult education centres and the adult education centres, which, in their entirety, may have been left to a little less thought. The school year of adult education centres has been suspended or terminated prematurely and the courses have been driven down. I think that quite a few municipalities have come to the conclusion that these adult education centres, the adult education institutions, are hardly going to split up and make amends, and I believe that even the customers will understand that the situation is what it is. But, of course, there are still the costs of teachers’ salaries and many other places and facilities and so on, and these may of course include, for example, some of the teachers who also serve there as teachers of basic or secondary education. But in any case, these challenges certainly lie in these adult and adult education centres. Then folk high schools are also their own number, because there are quite a lot of young people who go to high school education, for example, there may be young people who go to vocational education or even to a degree, such as nannies and the like, and then, of course, a lot of those who now have different studies, such as university studies. With regard to these, it must be said that there is a great concern, of course, for these folk high schools, of course, even for these students, but quite a lot of their activities have also been based on these fees and, on the other hand, on the way in which those facilities can be used. There are high fixed costs, which are currently running all the time without being able to get the value that different courses and others have been able to obtain from these courses and similar rates. I do not know if there will be any focus in the next amending budget on this subject, but I hope that the Ministry of Education will remember that an important part of the whole of Finnish education is these educational institutions, and that even if they have not come up so specifically in this situation, these institutions are currently experiencing major economic difficulties. In that sense, it is hoped that educational institutions will survive this crisis and will be able to continue to do good work as part of Finnish civilisation at a time when this society will once again be able to come closer to normal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u51	Mr President! Just in response to Mr Essayah’s response to this situation of free civilised work, the third amending budget is becoming a compensation for net losses of free civilised work. [Sari Essayah’s interlude] We stated in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that the necessary clarifications have been made to this regulation since last time. Among other things, 3000 children from immigrant backgrounds taking part in preparatory education for basic education are now entitled to contact education. This is really important because their parents do not necessarily have the capacity to direct distance learning at home. Sometimes the omission of one word makes it strangely clear. In the case of school meals, one impressive word has been deleted, the word ‘only’. School meals, support for learning and student care are carried out to the extent and with the means of implementation that are possible under the circumstances. As Mr Kivisaari said earlier, student care is more important than ever. The fundamental right to basic education free of charge also includes adequate food. Municipalities can implement school food according to the situation in accordance with safety. This means different solutions in different areas. Clear guidelines are needed to ensure that children are as equal as possible to school food. Mr President! The Constitution obliges us to ensure that insatiableness does not prevent us from receiving education. Libraries have a role to play in ensuring equal opportunities for everyone to develop their own wealth without it. Now that libraries are closed, ways should be found to serve and help broke students. Could it be a quote from libraries, as Mr Kontula suggested here today?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u52	Mr President! Just a few more points I'll take from this statement. In my previous speech, I drew particular attention to children and young people in vulnerable conditions. We had an excellent debate in the Committee on Education and Rural Development on it, and we want to take particular note of the fact that this support would certainly come under these exceptional circumstances too. There was even a question as to whether, for social reasons, it should be possible to give access to local education. The committee also expresses its concern about the lay-offs and threats of municipal staff in education and study services. Yes, we felt that the lay-offs should not be made now when there is a great need for those sponsors. The Committee also considers that, under exceptional circumstances, the provision of education services — psychological, curative and health care services — should also be provided as low-threshold services for students and pupils and parents. The committee recognizes the concern that in exceptional circumstances there may have been too far-reaching a shift from close contact assistance to remote access services. Attention should be paid to this and to ensure that the above-mentioned services are organised in such a way as to enable aid recipients to receive them, and for some it is in particular a local service. We also pay attention to cross-sectoral cooperation, which must be taken into account. This opinion has also commented on the possibilities for limiting the organisation of basic education and on the possibilities for limiting the organisation of vocational education and training, and a few provisions on universities of applied sciences and universities have been adopted here. If you are interested in these, please read this statement. Finally, in the current exceptional circumstances, the providers of education and their staff have moved to the provision of distance learning without the support of legislation, because the existing provisions on pre- and basic education have not made this possible. Thus, municipalities and other providers of education and training have had to take over a new way of organising education on a fast-track basis. This has also required ensuring that all pupils have access to the necessary equipment at home, as well as functional communications. In exceptional circumstances, regulations and instructions are given to organisers of early childhood education, education and training from different government bodies. Support and advice are therefore necessary, but the committee stresses the clarity, coherence and consistency of the guidance and the need to ensure that the requirements of exceptional circumstances do not unnecessarily burden municipalities and other organisers and increase the administrative burden. We certainly do not recommend that. The exceptional situation has called for and continues to require efforts and adaptation from different quarters. The Committee notes that there is a need in municipalities for cross-border and seamless cooperation between different experts, good care for children, students and students and families with children. Care must also be taken to ensure that the staff are able and well-being. All of this requires good management of the crisis period. Effective management and clear guidance are also needed when returning to the normal situation. The committee stresses that the normal situation is being moved forward in anticipation and in a systematic manner. Then, at the end of the day, we say that although the implementing regulation does not cover the student selection procedure for universities and universities, the committee notes that the exceptional situation affects in particular the possibilities for organising the selection tests. The committee draws attention to the legal security and equality of applicants for study. Now, at the end of the day, I'm just going to sum up a little discussion, and my own concerns here are as follows: What is now on the field is precisely this, that there will be a wide range of instructions. They are not necessarily clear, and suddenly there may be new guidelines on state administration, and I now hope, on my own behalf and on behalf of the committee, that these guidelines will be coordinated. It is important to ensure that local education and services are provided to those who really need them. We note here that some people also benefit from distance learning. There are children who are happy with this situation and even learn even better, but should not take it for granted. Then, of course, what has been important to us is this multiprofessional cooperation, and I would stress that if you do not get in touch with a child or a young person, then you have to do everything you can to get in touch with it. It has been estimated that — and this is the case, therefore, that when I have interviewed school leaders and school leaders, they say — about 20 percent of them fall off the sled, and that is the reason why we will be paying particular attention even during this spring to the stage when these exceptional circumstances are overcome. We in the committee have also had a debate on the fact that, in good time, such a systematic transition to a normal situation should take place. Indeed, the government has promised this kind of support programme for children, young people and families during the spring, and it will indeed be necessary. We will need special teachers, we will need school assistants, we will need teachers' ability to cope, whether in the spring or in the autumn when we return — hopefully we will already be in a normal situation. How, then, are these restrictions going to be dismantled, so personally I think that, by sector and by region, we need to start dismantling slowly, otherwise the damage will be excessive. For that reason, I am sure we will have to think very carefully about going on again. It needs to be carefully considered now whether this extension of restrictions would certainly apply to everyone. At some point at the moment, if we were to anticipate it now, I would think that we should look at how to proceed, both at regional level and at the level of education. But that remains to be seen, and yet when you have the opportunity to look at this on that side of May, you will be able to follow the situation for a while. According to experts, it has been possible to create those scenarios for about two weeks, but within two weeks we already know where this disease is going. With these words I would like to thank the committee for an excellent debate and for the experts we have heard and the work will continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u53	Mr. Speaker! Just a brief word about this school meal. This Regulation did not provide for it. The committee stressed the need for guidance on school meals precisely because the right to school meals is now being implemented in very different ways in different municipalities. Free basic education means adequate food, according to the opinion of the Constitutional Committee. Among other things, we received an example during the committee hearings that, first, a municipality had asked the students and their families who had a need for this school meal, and then they had started asking about income data. This is not appropriate. This is not an extension of poverty relief; it is the food that needs to be taken care of. At the same time, I am concerned that half the municipalities are still wondering how they would organise this school meal. Now that we've been in remote education for almost four weeks, yes, we should be getting clear on this too. There's been plenty of time to think. If you don't, you can start looking at pilots all over Finland. There are good models of how this has been arranged in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u54	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs — for not thanking me for the very good work you have done. Now that you referred to that school meal, that was in our earlier statements. The point was precisely this, both student care and school meals, because they became the most feedback: Does school meals belong to them or not to those who are in remote education? And how do we deal with student care now, when we heard that these student care services have been driven down there? Now some of these have been brought into play. I believe that these statements, which now started, will then brighten up in those municipalities. Mr President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I fully agree with you that there has now been some confusion about how to deal with these meals. Then, too, the fact that in some municipalities, when it has been offered, it has been quite surprising how much of it has been received. I think it is very understandable, because it has been used to this day that there is free school meals in Finland. Now that it does not exist, on the other hand, we will see what a great thing we have in Finland. But it is really important that it is sensibly organized, for example, with regard to logistics, that it does not happen that there are, at the same time, 100 people seeking it. It has also been that there has been some fuss in some municipalities. But that's what I'm paying attention to now. The Food Agency has given instructions on how to handle food. I'm sure that food service will keep in touch with the Food Agency, and the logistical problems will have been gradually resolved. But I certainly support the opinion of the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that this logistics should already have been put in order before it is too late. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u55	A point of order 6 will be presented for the sole reading. The basis for the debate is the report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Mr PeVM 15/2020 vp. It is now decided whether the regulation should be repealed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u56	Mr President! The Constitutional Committee is assessed by a Government decree adopted pursuant to Article 88 of the Emergency Act. The Decree concerns the municipality’s right not to temporarily comply with the time limits for the assessment of the need for urgent care and social care services. According to Article 88(1) of the Emergency Act, the condition that the municipality may waive the time limits laid down in the Health Care Act in order to organise emergency care is that it is necessary to provide urgent care and that the patient’s health is not compromised by exceeding the time limit. This provision, as well as the more precise provisions contained in the implementing regulation, is likely to ensure that the patient’s health is not compromised by exceeding the time limit. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government decree should not be repealed. According to Article 3 of the implementing regulation, the municipality may waive the time limit for initiating the assessment of the need for services provided for in Article 36(2) of the Social Welfare Act. Abandonment must not result in endangering the person’s necessary livelihood and care. Regulation has been limited compared to the implementing regulation in force in the past. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs considers the restriction to be well-founded in terms of regulatory proportionality. However, as regards proportionality, the Committee also draws attention to the fact that already vulnerable persons are subject to regulation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs stresses the fact that the derogation provided for in Article 36(2) of the Social Welfare Act does not apply to the obligation to start an assessment of the need for services without delay and to complete it without undue delay. With regard to the principles of necessity and proportionality, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs draws attention to the scope and time dimension of the measures referred to in the implementing regulation. The explanatory memorandum of the regulation contains a very detailed explanation of the negative effects of the derogation from the fixed-term regulation of social and health care. It is clear to the committee that there must be a necessary reason for derogations from the deadlines for organising emergency care. From this point of view, the committee is concerned by the report it has received that some municipalities have been very proactively different from the time limits for services. The committee stresses the importance of rapid and practical guidance provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Regional State Administrative Agencies. Finally, from the point of view of Section 11 of the Emergency Act, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs also draws attention to the fact that future explanatory notes such as those at issue must also assess the possibilities of abandoning the regulations adopted under the Emergency Act. The Committee stresses that, for such an assessment, as well as for the assessment of the effectiveness of individual competences, the Government must have a sufficiently precise picture of the application of the Emergency Response Act in the municipalities as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u57	Mr President! Thank you once again to the chairman of the committee for the presentation of the matter and also for the good comments it has made on the extension of this regulation on time limits for the assessment of urgent care and the need for social services. In this context, I would like to highlight once again the need for treatment, which is currently taking place in those municipalities, and the fact that we really do not have the rehabilitation that belongs to the treatment of the symptoms of their disease, and then there are also, for example, different patients with mental health who are missing out on therapy visits now. In that regard, we may have such a penitent need for treatment in the autumn. In particular, what has also been raised in the committee is that in some municipalities there has been quite an advance in this area, and what is really worrying is that, for example, in areas that are not so directly related to the burden on health care, treatments have been postponed. Let us take, for example, dental treatments and this type of treatment, if you could say, not even the actual treatment associated with this disease, which has then been postponed, these non-emergency treatments and the like, and that sounds strange when some municipalities have come to the point of actually wondering whether there is even too much staff in relation to the lack of patients. And the same thing in private institutions: we have had to ask ourselves whether we should start laying off staff because there are no patients there at the moment. In that sense, such a proportionality in postponing these deadlines would now be extremely important, and that assessment cannot be carried out anywhere but there on the ground, because it shows what kind of patient data it is and what types of treatment it needs. This statement, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has made, that this foresight should now be considered and used in that sense, is certainly, indeed, in order. We have areas where the epidemic has spread very little, and it may not be possible to see that there is a great need to move forward with the deadlines for all other management measures. Thank you, indeed, for the good work done by the committee, and it is absolutely necessary to continue with this regulation. But really that local reflection here should now be used and then taken into account that we do not have the situation that all this pent-up treatment will then suddenly be in our hands next autumn or later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u58	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of our committee for a clear presentation. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the Government's future application regulation should not be repealed. The regulation will continue to give municipalities the right to give flexibility to start assessing the need for urgent care and social care services. It is important that the patient’s health is not compromised by exceeding the time limit. The Regulation concerns already vulnerable persons. The Social Welfare Act obliges us to begin an assessment of the need for services without delay and to complete it without undue delay. Care and livelihood must also be ensured in exceptional circumstances. I welcome the fact that the explanatory memorandum contains a detailed description of the possible negative effects of a derogation from the deadlines. Exceptions should only be made in necessary situations. As Mrs Essayah said earlier, the committee is concerned that in some municipalities there has been too much pro-active deviation from the time limits for services before the need for intensive care has even risen — of course, staff have had to be transferred from non-emergency care to further training for the transition to intensive care. If urgent care is pushed down too early, the staff will be under-utilised, and after the crisis, there will also be a reduction in the amount of urgent care. The need for urgent care may also become very urgent along the way. Of course, in some areas, there has already been a return to urgent care when there have not been so many patients in intensive care. This indicates that our restrictive measures have been effective. Overall, the situation is understandable because the overall disease situation is unpredictable and difficult to anticipate. With regard to this regulation, too, I think it is important that the rights of children and the disabled are realised. That is why there is a need for clear guidance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u59	Mr President! Thank you for presenting the regulation to the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I understand very well the need for this regulation and also the emphasis on the fact that time limits must not, however, be ignored on a prank basis. That is absolutely absolute. We have a lot of diseases that get worse if they are not treated: for example, the cardiovascular diseases of our people's disease, which we currently have the most people dying of, then diabetes, mental health problems, cancer, dementia. These are the kind of people’s diseases that, while untreated, get worse and cause much suffering but also a lot of expense. When we talk about the repair debt on that side of the road, there is now a chance of becoming a care debt if we do not take care of them. The reason I am concerned about this — and I have spoken about this before — is that there are two reasons why this nursing debt now increases: It is that time in the front row has already gone down to drive care without haste. Good speeches have been used here, the reasons why this has been done, but a little bit in front of us started to drive it down. On the other hand, when people have been recommended to avoid social contact, the patients themselves have also cancelled those times, and now I would advise them to rely on the staff involved, doctors and nurses alike. There are a lot of new practices that allow you to go quite such a clean route and there are not many people there, so I now recommend that innovative and good practices be disseminated, and of course some of the diseases can be treated at a distance. I take an example like a thinning of blood when a person is treated for blood thinners in cardiovascular diseases. We have a lot of new medicines that do not need to control this blood loss at regular intervals, but then we have one such medicine, a medicine that is very long-term and that requires constant control, and now it should be done despite the fact that these are usually people over 70 years of age who are there in quarantine facilities and situations. That is why I now hope that innovative arrangements will be put in place, for example, that these blood tests will be carried out. Then there was the mention of rehabilitation and therapy. These are things that you can't always handle at a distance, so you should think about them now. Various protective devices can be used and then different modes can be used to reduce these close contacts. This is a bit like the one we talked about in the recent regulation on local education and local support education, that we will find the means to get in touch, because not all education, all services, all treatment can be provided remotely. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u60	Mr President! This regulation on the right of the municipality to temporarily fail to comply with the deadlines for the urgent care of health care and the need for social care services must be well understood in this situation, and that is certainly very clear to us all. Like many representatives, I would like to draw the attention of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to a very important point: the Committee therefore rightly draws attention to these principles of necessity and proportionality. This means, in plain language, that the assessment of urgent care or the need for services should not, however, go to the other extreme, that is to say, a situation in which people are driven into excessive waiting times and significant delays in accessing assistance. Of course, the threat here is what Mr Risikko rightly said, among other things, that after the corona we have a huge pack of basic diseases whose symptoms have gone too far. Of course, that's not the kind of tsunami we want. That is why it is important that this regulation, indeed necessary, should not be taken to extremes, i.e. absurdities. The danger here is that we are currently raising a group of people in homes who travel directly past the pre-emptive level, i.e. directly to special care. Then we will do exactly what Mr Essayah mentioned, for example, that we are building a dam which, when opened, will cause a huge flood. That, of course, is not what we want here, and that is not the purpose of this regulation either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u61	The 7th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. Amending budget initiatives will be sent to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u62	Mr President! With regard to amending budget initiatives, I would like to present two increases to the amending budget of the Christian Democrats. The first is for communities and foundations to promote health and social well-being, to which we propose an increase of EUR 20 million. The Government will increase the additional EUR 5 million in this second amending budget for foundations and communities promoting health and well-being. This increase results from a separate application for assistance to these organisations to respond to the crisis caused by the corona virus and is necessary, but the amount allocated to this is too small to meet the needs of these organisations. It must be remembered that there are about a thousand different social welfare organisations and a really significant proportion of them work in social services. There are many service providers, for example, who are producers of services for children and young people, care for the elderly, substance abuse care, mental disability care, and housing services, and there are tens of thousands of jobs in the service production of these organizations. These service providers, which are such associations and foundations, are not in a position to apply for these subsidies to companies, which have been increased elsewhere by the government. In that sense, if we look at this recovery from the crisis, it is extremely important to maintain the work of these organisations, and this important activity is being financed mainly by the purchasing services of Kela and hospital districts and municipalities, and some of this activity has already had to be suspended as a result of the corona crisis. In that sense, the Christian Democrats hope that in this amending budget this increase of 20 million will come into force. Mr President! Secondly, I would like to present an amending budget initiative on the increase in the appropriation for the clinical trial of corona. We are proposing EUR 2 million for this, because this is a disease alien to our health care, as it is, of course, everywhere in the world, and we should find treatments and medicines as quickly as possible. Many different treatment methods and drug combinations have been tried in the world, and further efforts are needed in the clinical trial of corona patients in Finland as well. While these patients are being treated, it is also easier to allow research and treatment trials. In Finland, it is necessary to experiment with medicines that have been successfully used in other parts of the world, and at the same time to study them. At the same time as we have only talked about treatment and supportive care for these patients, many other countries are already taking these different kinds of drugs for trial. Now that I have read the latest news, I have found that Finland too has now joined several hospitals in the experimental use of aid medicines, and in that sense it is important that it should also be allocated the appropriations required by the amending budget. Therefore, sufficient resources should be allocated to the Centre for the Safety and Development of the Pharmaceuticals sector to carry out urgent pilot and research work, and the increase should be allocated to financing research, training and development projects for the treatment of COVID-19 outside the Agency approved by the Centre for the Safety and Development of the Pharmaceutical Sector. Mr President! The Christian Democrats will then submit their own draft amending budget in the coming week. Now, in these exceptional times, we have reached a joint agreement with other opposition parties on this subject, that even if we present these amending budget initiatives in this way on a specific point, yet these own additions would be dealt with as a united protest, which will then raise this item-specific money and then make any statements, and then vote on them as a single objection. That way we can avoid going through many of the votes in this Chamber and in that way everyone here for our part is increasing each other's security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-16-ps-55.u63	Thank you for that last sentence. It is a good example of how things can be handled.
