ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Finance on VaVM 18/2020 vp. The general debate was closed at the plenary session on 11 November 2020. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u2	Honorable Speaker! I shall table the amendments to Table A, Table B and Table C in accordance with Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u3	Madam President! I'm in favour of a representative. It's a small hill act.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u4	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u5	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen and others following the plenary session! This proposal therefore proposes to amend the Unemployment Fund Act, to amend, inter alia, the provisions on the suitability and skills of management, the conditions for membership of the Board of Directors and the tasks of the Board of Directors. . . [The PresidentAnuVehvillainen : I'm sorry, speaker. — I would ask those representatives who have something to communicate with other representatives to move from this Chamber to other premises. — The representative shall continue. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u8	Before giving the floor to Mr Juvonen, I would like to say to the representatives that it is worth looking at what this government proposal and this report contain. In other words, I would not wish that a very wide-ranging debate should begin here, past this government's proposal.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u9	Madam President! This is indeed where the representative raised this issue of earnings-relatedness. Surely there are times when we can discuss it, and it is important that people know when they belong to the union or are not part of the union, where they actually pay for it and where they get compensation. The aim of this proposal before us is to clarify the rules governing the management and operation of unemployment funds and to clarify the functioning of the unemployment fund — technical changes. The proposed changes to the competence of management and government and the functioning of the cashiers will update the regulations on the functioning of unemployment funds to better reflect current practices and requirements. In addition, the insurance of the unemployed members of the cashier will be improved in the event of the cancellation of the unemployment fund by allowing the unemployed member to join another unemployment fund. This proposal also includes a proposal to dispose of the assets of the disassembled cashier. The Employment Fund and the proposal to abolish the compensation of contributions from the unemployment fund. We dealt with this in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, and this report is unanimous. All the discussions that are taking place here also relate to the corona epidemic and how we people are able to cope with the corona, and it is very important that the unemployment funds are given sufficient resources, consulted and understood under the pressure that they are sure to be working at the moment. It's very important. This will also enable services to be maintained and people to perform important tasks there. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u10	Madam President! This change in unemployment fund laws is very welcome and relates, as colleagues have said here, to these qualifications of management and also to good governance. It also takes the view that, if the cashier ceases, how the assets will then be transferred to the Employment Fund in the event of closure. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Heinonen has raised the issue of earnings-related expansion for all, that this issue came to light in the spring as a result of the corona crisis. I do not know whether this bill, which we are dealing with here today, is partly due to the need for change from this situation, or whether this need for change had already been identified, but in any event this debate became visible when it was realised that the state had to run for help. So today, as has been said here, only 5% of these contributions cover this unemployment benefit, while 95% come from contributions paid by all people and then from tax resources. The state then rushed to help and brought an extra one to these unemployment funds, I recall that it was about 40 million, which was then put in the amending budget. That is where this debate all in all started, and that is why we should not now think about this. We now have more than 70,000 — and I think it was already in 2017 when there were more than 70,000 — people who are therefore not members of the cashiers and are in an unfair situation in which they are actually paying these fees but are then unable to benefit from the situation. Of course, when it comes to the development of social security, unemployment security is a very important part of it, and I think that in those situations we should look a little at the Nordic countries and think about the Danish model, for example. In Denmark, too, these bags have a strong role to play in promoting the employment of people. Just as we have in the Employment and Economic Development Offices those people who are thinking about employment plans, there they are in unemployment funds, so it is the interest of the unemployment fund to get people to work as quickly as possible. In that sense, it would be worth considering whether we should also have more skills and staff in the unemployment funds in Finland to promote this issue. In this connection, of course, it has always been pointed out from Denmark that unemployment benefit is much higher at first, but then staggers more quickly. These are the issues which I am sure the legislation will do well to reflect on in the future, but indeed this actual proposal is all very technical and yet very necessary and worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u11	Madam President! This proposal and this report are unanimous. The aim of the proposal is to clarify the regulation of the management and operation of unemployment funds and to clarify the functioning of the unemployment fund. After all, there is no provision in the existing law on how to use cash in the event of liquidation or bankruptcy of the cashier, which is an irregularity. This regulation now safeguards the status of earnings-related daily allowance recipients in the event of a cash-out. The problem remains, however, that this draft law or its explanatory memorandum does not provide an acceptable justification for the transfer of funds from the entrepreneurship funds, and that is why the scope of this essential article is limited so that it does not cover the entrepreneurship funds. Mr President! It is therefore very important that the unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs and other social security schemes be developed, because this is still the problem for entrepreneurs. Since the beginning of this year, there has been only one entrepreneur fund and the entrepreneur cannot become a member of the employee fund. There has been an even wider debate here on the development of earnings-related unemployment benefit, and it is true that the interest-rate period has shown that we have major disadvantages here and that a significant proportion of the unemployed are interveners, those who do not belong to the cashiers and, although they pay unemployment insurance contributions, do not, however, benefit from this earnings-related benefit. Personally, I hope that this will be a rapid reform and I would see that the most sustainable basis would be for this earnings-related unemployment allowance to be taken over by the Social Insurance Institution in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u12	Madam President! As the previous speakers have pointed out, this report is unanimous. The Government's proposal is aimed at clarifying the administration of unemployment funds and also at defining more clearly the qualifications of management, and also, in the event of termination, arrangements for what is to be done with the funds in the unemployment funds. This is a clear picture. However, a debate has been opened here as to whether it is possible for all workers to be members of unemployment funds and to receive the benefits that they will receive when they become unemployed or not. Representative When Heinonen presented this issue, he stated that the ‘Mes Finns ’ were of the opinion — he used this term — that this earnings-related unemployment security system should cover all workers in Finland. Mr Heinonen spoke about ‘our Finns’inasmuch as he
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u17	Madam President! This is a good and worthy proposal from the government, and the report has also been unanimously adopted and supported by all parties. In my own speech, however, I would like to address Mr Heinonen and Mr Kiljunen, perhaps halfway there. I feel that this earnings-related thing is not entirely fair to all Finns, because it requires that they join the cashier. This kind of volunteering exists, and not everyone necessarily wants to join. At the same time, however, everyone pays for this earnings-related activity. At this point, it would now be important to look at how this could be designed so that it would be absolutely fair to all Finns and that this obligation to join would not be the primary way to do this. At this point, I would like to call for an even wider debate on this, and it is good that the demars are strongly involved in this debate, as are all the other parties. There is no harm in this debate, but it will only help us all to tighten up these various elements of the contractual society to get even better up and up. I am also strongly in favour of dialogue on this point as a representative of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u18	I would also point out at this point that this is a question of administrative matters and what happens to the funds if the unemployment fund goes bankrupt, so I would ask you to concentrate on these issues gradually.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u19	Madam President! I just want to make it right when Mr Kiljunen gave a little false testimony to his neighbor here. I said that the majority of Finns are in favour of this correction, and he still wanted, probably deliberately, to bring the totally unrelated side of this. I myself referred to the unemployment fund and earnings-related unemployment security, and this fairness, which Mr Al-Taeek raised, would be welcome for all Finnish workers. This issue has nothing to do with the contractual society, the organization of working life and the ay movement, although Mr Kiljunen wanted to confuse this debate in that way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u20	The 5th item of the order of business will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the legislative proposals, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u21	Madam President! We have now had many legislative proposals in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, which have been adopted unanimously, and this is one of them. This proposal proposes changes to the regulation of financial transactions between the State and the Social Insurance Institution. The aim of these changes is to make administrative work between the State and the Social Insurance Institution more flexible and easier and to secure the liquidity of the Social Insurance Institution. On the basis of the Government's proposal and the report it received, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health considered these proposed amendments to be justified, and so we unanimously supported this. It is important that we also focus in the midst of this corona epidemic on making bureaucracy easier and even dismantling and making it more flexible, and in that sense it is good that these means are being sought. As I pointed out in the previous speech, the workers of the unemployment funds and their ability to cope and to provide resources, so in the same way I would like us all to draw attention to the fact that the employees and operators of the Social Insurance Institution also receive their resources and are able to operate under these demanding and difficult conditions, where we are at the moment, so that everyone can then do their job well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u22	A point of order 6 will be presented to the second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-13-ps-145.u23	Madam President! This government proposal proposes that unemployment insurance contributions be fixed for next year 2021. In addition, the proposal proposes that the dividend paid to the shareholder on the basis of the labour input should be included in the earnings on which the unemployment insurance contribution is based from 2021 onwards. It is also proposed to specify the provisions on the share premium and employee option, as well as the provision on the accumulation of unemployment insurance for basic security. As a result of the Covid-19 epidemic, the corona virus epidemic, unemployment, and in particular the number of lay-offs, has increased and has led to an increase in expenditure financed by the Employment Fund. According to a report received by the committee, the net assets of the Employment Fund will be reduced by an estimated EUR 800 to 900 million in 2020 and the Fund will have a debt of approximately EUR 1200 million at the end of 2020. While the Covid-19 epidemic makes it difficult to assess employment trends, it is estimated that benefits and expenditure financed by the Employment Fund will remain at a high level in 21. In other words, it is a very important basis for this draft law, and in order to safeguard the liquidity of the Employment Fund, it is proposed that the total amount of unemployment insurance contributions for 2021 be increased by 0.32 percentage points. The employee's unemployment insurance contribution will be increased by 0.15 percentage points and the employer's average unemployment insurance contribution by 0.17 percentage points.
