ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, Mrs MmVM 1/2020 vp. We are now deciding on the content of the draft law and going to the general debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u2	Mr President! The draft law is a good one and the committee's report is a good one. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this will also enable us to tackle the drought. At the moment, when we live on eternal November and the surface of the waters in many inland lakes is exceptionally high, the issue of drought may not seem very topical. The fact is, however, that with climate change extreme weather phenomena and rains are sometimes increasing, but also drought. This was seen in Pirkanmaa, for example, last summer, when lake heights were exceptionally low. The law will continue to allow us to intervene more closely in this situation as well. And especially this so-called spring pit
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to avoid such an extra slump while the representative is speaking here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u4	Mr President! Helsingin Sanomat reported in February that Helsinki Arabianranta has become a water park this winter. Instead of swimming pools and slides, there is a sea that has flooded the park area since autumn. It was only a few weeks ago that the images of the record floods caused by a severe storm exceeded the news threshold. The biggest damage to the area, however, is caused by a flood that continued throughout the winter. Helsinki and many other municipalities have many built areas that are vulnerable to flooding. In these areas, floods make life difficult for the inhabitants and those who move there, and they can also damage buildings and structures. Finland is not only a land on a long sea coast but also a land of hundreds of thousands of lakes and hundreds of rivers. The rise in water levels caused by climate change will be a growing and serious problem in many areas and must be prepared for it. We know that climate change increases extreme weather phenomena. In the past few summers we have experienced exceptionally long and dry heat cycles that cause the earth to burn, grain crops to suffer and old people to wear out in the heat. The winter that has passed has indeed been a month of November, when Helsinki has sometimes been warmer than Italy. At the height of Oulu at the turn of the year, the lawn greened under the locust, Turku's flower cherry tree in February. These phenomena affect both Hula and flood water management, food production, infrastructure, forest growth and housing conditions. Mr President! According to the Government's proposal, the tasks of the Ely Centres should be to take into account, in addition to flood situations, other abnormal water conditions such as heavy rains and droughts, as well as the management of water situations under such conditions. This is an important and necessary proposal for adaptation to climate change. We recently discussed the Government's first climate year report. According to the Climate Act, Finland must have an adaptation plan for climate change. The annual report showed that climate risks and the need to adapt to them are not yet sufficiently identified, resulting in a lack of risk management. As climate change accelerates, adjustment efforts need to be strengthened. In its report on the annual report on climate change, the Committee on the Environment stressed that adaptation to climate change should be considered in every annual report, not just every four years. Climate change must be combated by all means. Yet it is clear that warming by 1.5 degrees will have significant adverse effects. That is why adaptation to climate change and preparedness for flood risks must also be proactive and effective. It also saves costs. Local government land use planning and planning play a key role in this. But action at national level is also needed to prepare for extreme weather events and floods and minimise the damage they cause. The legislative amendment now being adopted will contribute to these needs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u5	Mr President! The proposal proposes to amend the law on flood risk management, and I consider this government proposal to be excellent in terms of its content. As Mr Kiuru said, the tasks of the Ely Centre will have to be changed to take account not only of flood situations but also of droughts and droughts. Management of water situations under such conditions is essential for security of supply for each of us Finns, and I also very much welcome the inclusion in the law of provisions on monitoring, i.e. continuous monitoring of how preparedness is carried out and how it has been taken into account. The flood situation has been worrying in Satakunta, for example, where the Kokemäenjoki has flooded over the banks and the water has covered fields and yards and roads, but this situation in the waters is also worrying there in Päijät-Häme and Kanta-Häme in general. For example, last autumn we have been concerned about the fact that wells are draining out of drought and the changes in groundwater are considerable, even wells that have functioned blamelessly since the 40s, and now there have been situations where there is absolutely no water available. This has challenged not only living in these houses but has also burdened the tourism industry, for example, when some of the cottages have been in completely unusable condition. I am concerned about the changes in groundwater, and I am particularly concerned about the water level in Päijänne. Six months ago, it has been about three feet below average due to low rainfall, and the coastline of Lake Vesijärvi has also recently withdrawn visibly. The same phenomenon has, of course, been the case in Finland as a whole. In my view, this proposal will improve preparedness for the conditions described above and the exceptional circumstances they require, thereby also contributing to adaptation to climate change situations, and I therefore think that this government proposal is excellent.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u6	Mr President! Climate change is literally one of the most pressing issues of our time. Climate change is forecast to increase global weather extremes, i.e. heavy rains and storms on the one hand and longer periods of drought on the other. The rise in sea levels also contributes to flood risks. The Government's proposal now under discussion proposes an extension of the scope of the flood risk law. Thus, in the past, only the legal framework applied to normal floods would be extended to other situations, such as heavy rains, droughts and water management under different extreme conditions. I believe that such a broader range of threat scenarios should be taken into account for its part in the work of the authorities, such as the Ely Centres, and in the legislation governing it, and that is why this bill is in order. The proposal introduces provisions on monitoring the implementation of flood risk management objectives and the digital implementation of data to information systems. Mr President! The flooding of rivers is a familiar spring phenomenon, especially in Western Finland, typically extending from Satakunta through Ostrobothnia to us in the region of Oulu, for example, since the Tyrnävanjoki River, where we have unfortunate recent experiences, but also the shores of the seas are a flood risk area in southern Finland, especially in Espoo and Helsinki. These threats have been a major problem for ely centres and other authorities throughout the history of Finland, but with climate change the range of threats is widening further. Water management and water management should be taken care of throughout the country as a result of droughts or heavy rains. This is not just about our Ostrobothnian rivers, it is about the whole country. Of course, the rise of the country may bring some comfort to Finland in this matter, but it may still be that, on some schedule, we must also consider building with various flood walls. Of course, such structures would not be necessary if our country's own flood management system, or ring, had not been so extensively damaged in the provinces.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u7	Mr President! The aim is therefore to identify sites susceptible to exceptional floods and resulting damage and to present measures to prevent and reduce damage. In addition to flood situations, account must be taken of other abnormal water conditions, as has already been mentioned here, and the management of such situations. This proposal will genuinely improve preparedness for changes in weather and water conditions, which are not expected to decrease, at least in this area of climate change. This proposal will therefore also contribute to our preparation for climate change. This is a planning system designed to identify sites susceptible to exceptional floods and significant drought damage. The aim is therefore to identify the potential economic but also human risks that we currently have and which may not have been sufficiently prepared for. As has been mentioned here, we have also had situations in Central Finland where municipal water has not been found, and these issues need to be genuinely addressed in good time so that we can take care of water supply. I hope that this bill will be widely taken into account at various levels of decision-making and put into practice genuinely and not just in paper.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u8	Mr President! This government proposal is very important and time-bound. Now that much has been said about these effects of climate change, I think that too little has been said about how to adapt to them. At the same time as these measures to combat climate change are being taken forward, we also need to take care of this adjustment, and I think that this government proposal is part of this whole package, in which, on the one hand, efforts are being made to prepare for these increased flood risks and, on the other hand, for the drought itself. This, of course, affects river basins, rivers — crops in many places are affected by these floods — but, above all, new settlements to be built on the coasts of the sea today may be under water for decades to come. I believe that in planning and managing the use of the sites, in planning, we should really limit ourselves to such a way that, for example, 15 meters below the height curve, we can no longer build on the shores of the sea, because I believe that it is irresponsible action on the part of society if we now allow the construction of those areas which will inevitably remain under water in the future. These issues are often the subject of an even less debate in our society, but they should now be given more attention. The whole is then drought and water problems. As Mrs. Rantanen pointed out earlier, in Petäjävesi the municipal water supply was exhausted in this autumn and the whole municipality, its water supply network, was virtually waterless. Ultimately, it is also the responsibility of the municipality to provide water supply for those living outside the water supply network in such an exceptional situation. It is good that this regulation is now also being made more precise in relation to this government's proposal. This cannot be the case, because these effects of climate change are constantly present and in an increasing number of areas of life, but we need more of them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u9	Mr President! The government's proposal on flood risk management is very timely. And while it seems by a quick look that this is a trivial bill, that is not what this is. This is a very necessary and timely bill. On this point, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry has produced a good report — excellent thanks to the committee for its work and, of course, to the Minister and the Ministry for Agriculture and Forestry for their good preparation. The first thing to pay attention to is that, of course, we are prepared for flood risks here, but we must remember that this changed world... The climate is changing all the time. It's not worth scaring anyone with climate change. After the ice age, which was 11,000 years ago, the climate has changed all the time, every year it has changed. That if anyone now considers that climate change as their own invention, it is about 11,000 years late. The ice age has been the huge watershed on this issue. Since then, for example, huge peat fields have grown. Some feel that peat does not regenerate, but billions of it in cubes have just happened to come to Finland, have grown — so it has been renewed. But what I want to say with special precision is that now that we are preparing for floods to become more and more severe, it is a reality, but we must also remember that it can mean extreme drought. In this House, in Parliament, much has been said about whether there is a drought problem in addition to floods. There is opposition to peat fields, but on the agricultural side all farmers know it and many Finnish civilized people know that peat fields are the strength of this nation. As dry summers, a reasonably good crop can still be obtained from peat fields by properly regulating groundwater. For example, in the case of drainage fields, by regulating the flow of water even an excellent crop in dry summers is produced in peat fields. And this means that even if peatfields and peat — usually where the word “pea” floats — are hated and their use is to beprohibited immediately,it is said that the prohibition of clean food,clean domestic food,fouling peatfields areresponsiblyresponsible for their reduction in some climate change. The future of this nation is never dependent on it, and the development of climate change is not at all dependent on whether the Finnish farmer still cultivates the peat field that was cleared 100 years ago or whether it is put on growing wood. It is a kind of phenomenon that drives a certain political goal without thinking about what its consequences are. We need peat fields in this country; we need many other peat production areas in this country to keep this land inhabited. It is important to remember that flood risks are well-prepared and, above all, that agriculture is kept alive in this country.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u10	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u11	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u13	Mr President, värderade talman! Den au regeringens proposition kommer i rätt tid. Det är bra att vi ser över hanteringen av översvämningsrisker. På grund av klimatförändringen blir extreme väderlek med störtregn och torka allt vanligare enligt våra forskare. Speciellt utsatt vid vattenförhållanden som avviker — och inte bara vatten- utan också klimatförhållanden — från det normala är förstås livsmedelsproduktionen. Trots att vi inte kan korvleda det till klimatförändringen fick till exempel livsmedelsproduktionen via en call och regnig höst 2017 och extrem torka våren—sommaren 2018 en mycket mindre skörd än normalt, vilkett vi under har kunnat it. Värderade Talman! Utgående från dessa erfarenheter är det motiverat och viktigt att man nu ändrar så att NTM-centralens uppgifter i översvämningsssituationer även ska innefatta att beakta andra vattenförhållanden som avviker från det normala, till exempel, som det har framkommit tor, störtregn och torka.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u14	Mr President! I think it is quite wise that this legislation should be amended so that the authorities must take account not only of the normal flood risks but also of the abnormal water conditions, such as heavy rains, droughts and so on. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, although there has now been little living here in southern Finland as it has been on a continuous basis in October and there is no information about snow, we still have areas in Finland where real, normal flood risks are very significant. One might say that this is a bit of a strange winter, because even though there is no snow here in the south, there is a record amount of snow in the north: official readings in some areas 119 cents. This is, of course, nice to be able to ski, and welcome to ski there, everyone, but at the same time it has to be said that there are now some fears, that what kind of floods come in spring when there is plenty of snow and the water content of snow is exceptionally high. We have two areas where there is a particular flood risk: one is the area in the centre of Kittilä, where there has been flood damage from time to time, and the other is a certain area in Rovaniemi where, in the worst case scenario, the damage will be in the millions and tens of millions if it hurts. For years there have been flood groups established there, who have wondered in these water basins what would be the most effective ways to prevent flooding. Of course, the most effective way would be to set up a pool at the tops of the Kemi and Ounas River, which will hold off these waters, a multi-functional system which would also have an energy economic advantage, but during the last parliamentary term, the Government decided that, for social reasons, the Natura exchanges that would be required for the establishment of these pools will not go away, and in that sense the matter has been closed for the time being. That is why it is important that we pay attention to those, you might say, ways that could now be used. Regrettably, it is difficult to go to the areas where they have been built and to make some terraces around the river — how you go to another country to search if you do not, and afterwards it is difficult to obtain such obligations through planning. It would appear that alternative effective methods are not necessarily available, and I would therefore like to point out that if society prevents effective flood protection — once insurance companies have now withdrawn from liability — then society should also consider adopting a separate law for exceptional situations in which we do not have effective flood prevention measures, as is the case here for nature conservation interests, in which case we would have to leave by way of separate legislation in order to compensate for other social interests.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u15	Mr President! Here Mr Kiuru spoke well yesterday and he spoke well today, I think he is in a good position.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u18	Mr President! This proposal on flood management and water management is welcome. As has been said in a number of speeches in this debate, this is also a preparation, above all, for a dry period of time, i.e. there are two sides here that can be cared for by effective water management. I think it was Mr Pauli Kiuru, who previously also brought up these dry stages, i.e. when you didn't have to count nearby waters on such low surfaces in the spring, you could better prepare for dry summer seasons, or even from the point of view of groundwater. We also have very good ways of managing water, organic means of managing water, for example multi-functional wetlands, which, among other things, is done to a large extent by the Union of Hunters through cooperation with the M.K. and farmers. They are perfectly capable of providing water — certainly cleaning these rainwaters, but then ensuring that water supplies remain more stable throughout the year when the waters are at their peak and then drier times. In fact, this is also one of the most effective ways to influence the nutrient load. These floods actually increase our emissions, nutrient loads, exceptionally violently. Of course, the worst are autumn floods, then the leaching is even greater from the point of view of nutrients. But that's a few weeks ago in the countryside. I read the future, and the magazine reported on these effects, how, for example, the abundant rains of this winter have raised the nutrient loads exceptionally high, and they are the first to appear there in our nearby waters — lakes and ponds — and then, of course, eventually as a nutrient load and eutrophication in the Baltic Sea. Good cooperation projects are being carried out on the coast. In time, I also got to know the pilot work done by the city of Pori and the professional high school and Luke, and this type of project is needed. But when the government deserves praise, then we have had the habit of giving it to the opposition. Very often this period has not been justified,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u19	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u20	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u21	Mr President! It is indeed worth thanking for the fact that this bill has been brought here and the committee has done its work on it, and it is important that this be taken forward, that is the case. Whether we think what Mr Laukkanen said just now that climate change is man's fault, our people's fault entirely, or whether we believe what Mr Hoskonen said, who said that climate change was 11,000 years ago and that it is not happening now - that is, extremes are here - it is certainly climate change that is happening to some extent and some of it is man-made and its consequences we will have to face in the future. We must be sensible about this, and I believe that this legislation is part of that rationality. Mr Honkonen said that we should take the 15-metre reserve at what is being built. I asked Mr Vähämäki that if the water level rises 15 meters, what will happen to Oulu when he is from Oulu, and he said that he is not There is much left of Oulu, which means that this border is, of course, quite harsh. And when I took the initiative in the fall to move this capital from Helsinki to Jyväskylä,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u24	Mr President! We did not leave the future of such a long line — my own office is still right there on the ground floor. But instead I would like to thank the committee for its constructive and firm handling of this legislative project. It was about creating a planning system, that routes are clear when extreme phenomena due to climate change and other reasons occur: collecting information, being this kind of controlled plan, and seeing if it occurs. That is what simplicity is all about. At the same time, however, we wanted to expand our knowledge a little, and we have heard a lot about how flood risks are being managed today, and about how we would reduce emissions, for example, which has become apparent in the debates here. For example, we have a lot of waste water that goes into a jam or is overloaded so that we then have to release water — as often read in the newspapers — by tons or dozens of tons, even hundreds of tons, without cleaning it directly into the water, and that is not appropriate. We also wanted to hear about the preparation for drought. After all, we in this House have decided on the last water supply projects a few months ago, that is, this house, the state, will no longer finance water supply projects. It also became a debate that it may be appropriate to reflect on this issue sometime in the future. I can tell you that the municipality of Petäjävesi, for example, had quite a rough summer and autumn, when a large part of the municipality was on the receiving water, so to speak. Yes, Syke will provide us with further calculations of these different nutrient loads. Strangely enough, these stormwater issues had never been placed in the whole picture of how much the matter of the big load affects the Baltic Sea. I am not going to go any further here to express the party's position, because this was a common will of all parties to move this bill forward as it is.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u25	Mr President! It is great to hear what Mr Kalmari has said and what has now been said in this Chamber, that we agree that this government bill is excellent and that it is important that we prepare ourselves for what is quite obvious that the various extreme weather phenomena are increasing. I went to Kuusamo this weekend, where I grew up, and people told me that the last time I was such an eight - year - old boy there was so much snow this winter. There are really high kinos and swallows, and there is now a lot of snow all over Northern Finland. It is visible there in such a way that, for example, the roofs of buildings have collapsed, especially in the case of large warehouses, and it has been necessary to prepare for how we protect our buildings, that they will endure. This point of view, too, that snow can also be exceptionally high in the north in the coming winters, and that too must be prepared for. Now that the snows and ices start to move from there in the spring, it can then be in trouble if it is not prepared. All in all, the government's proposal is good and worthy of support, and we must continue to ensure that we are better prepared for the increasing variety of extreme weather phenomena, both floods and droughts.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u26	Mr President! In committee, we discussed this in good agreement, as has been heard. This is a very important issue, not only for rivers, but also for lakes. Let's remember what happened in 2012: It was a rainy summer, and the water level of Lake Oulu reached the upper limit. I recall that the summer cottages and the people who lived on the beach were very actively connected at the time, that in what way would this move forward to bring down the water level. Since then, I think the legislation has been corrected to that extent, but the problem was that the Ely Centre could not allow water to be lowered until it reached the upper limit. Then when the water came with night and day, then it happened that it went beyond its upper limit, and then the roads went and the cottages and the beach saunas and the barbecue places, all that was in it. But it was also built in such a way that below the waterline. I think it should also be addressed in these flood risks, that building permits are not then granted to areas below the water level. We have a lot of snow in northern Finland, and if all of these come in the rain or do not fade into the wind, it is expected that the Simo River and others, the Ounasjoki River, the Tornio River, will be flooded. It is a good idea to prepare for these, and now there is a legitimate group that will then be responsible for dealing with these matters by the Ely Centre. Let us hope that these cottage snowmobiles and remember what has now been seen, for example, in Simojoki, can be overcome in a better situation. But if there are thick ices and clumps, you have to think in good time about how to get rid of them or how to get around those dam situations so that only then the water won’t get up enough. A very important piece of legislation at the moment, and I would like to thank all the members of the committee for the fact that this went very clearly and unanimously.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u27	Mr President! This is an important piece of legislation and an important change in the law, and this is a positive example in that way that although the image of this house is unfortunately often such that we are fighting and trying to misunderstand each other, the majority of Finnish legislation is born here in Parliament unanimously and so is this. Here I would like to thank the opposition groups for bringing forward the legislation which is important to the security of people and to our economy unanimously, both in committee and in agreement here in the Chamber. Thanks again for that. President! This is very important legislation for my constituency and Ostrobothnia. As the words of the strike say, I will leave and flood the North. Everyone knows the great floods of the plains of Ostrobothnia. Flood risk management is very important for South Ostrobothnia and also for other Ostrobothnian provinces, as far as Lapland, everyone knows. The school has learned these rivers, which are sometimes flooded. There has been a very high-quality and high-quality debate here, and much more expert contributions have been made on this issue of flood risk, but I would like to make one point here. That perspective is an actor who has a great deal of influence on flood risk management, i.e. pumping groups that we have at least in southern Ostrobothnia, for example, along the Lapuanjoki River. After all, they are such associations of landowners, groups of very large pumps, which will then be prepared for the flood situation to run that river’s water into the fields and prevent agglomerations and municipalities from drowning under its floodwater. President! I would therefore like this house and perhaps the good government of our country to pay some attention to the situation of these pumping groups. There's a lot of financial responsibilities down there. Typically, farmers, who are not doing very well at the moment economically, are jointly and severally paying for the maintenance of these pumps. It is very important that the Finnish State makes fair agreements with these pumping groups, and then we have to think about the sharing of costs. There will be quite a lot of costs when you run those pumps, and the cost of electricity taxes is also quite high. Even if there are not always so many people there, but when the minutes are read, I hope that the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry will also pay attention to this and that the local ely centres will be contacted and see that those pumps are maintained in good condition and that there will also be no excessive burden on those landowners who ultimately secure the safety of other people in the province from flood risks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u28	Mr President! The bill itself must be supported. However, on the basis of the debate in the Chamber, I would like to make a few comments to the government. The River Kokemäenjoki and Satakunta were mentioned here, and in connection with this, floods are things to be prepared for in advance. In Satakunta, Natura sites have brought certain difficulties to the Kokemäenjoki river. When it comes to reeding, you can't put the masses from the bottom next to them, but you should carry them further, which increases the cost. In other words, could there be any change to this, i.e. is it possible to spill the mass from the bottom, for example, into the Natura site? The second was in the case of drought when it was said that the wells were drying. That's right, and it's been like that before. In the past, the rescue department may have supplied water to dried wells. Today you can't, because competition law prohibits action. You have to order the water from some company, so the rescue department can't deliver it. Is it possible to deliver in the future?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u29	Mr President! It is a fact that the climate is changing. Finland cannot prevent it. Even in controlling climate change we may be mainly at the mercy of the rest of the world, but we alone have responsibility for adapting to climate change in Finland. The Government's proposal to amend the Act on flood risk management is an important indication that Finland can and must better prepare for climate change. Flood risks are not new in themselves, but they will increase in the future. It is important that, in addition to flood situations, this proposal prepares itself for other abnormal water conditions such as heavy rains and droughts and general management of water situations. This will therefore improve preparedness for changes in weather and water conditions and, in particular, for an increase in abnormal phenomena. For my part, I would like to thank you for this presentation. Adapting to climate change is sensible and necessary. Unfortunately, this legislative amendment under discussion seems to be more of an exception than the rule in Finland's actions. Finland has not sufficiently increased adaptation to the climate agenda. Fortunately, at EU level, as part of the Green Deal programme, the Commission has taken an entirely different approach to the key role of adaptation, and in the course of the year an adaptation strategy is expected. After all, the Government Programme does talk a lot about climate change and sets ambitious targets, but such frivolous speeches should stop and focus on climate policy in terms of concreteness and cost-effective reduction of emissions and adaptation measures. Adaptation to the Government Programme has in no way been highlighted as its own theme. Finland has a 2014 climate change adaptation plan, and this should definitely be updated this season. I would also like to raise the issue of urban structure. We know that an environment built at the mercy of transverse heavy rains will be put to a completely new test. It has been said that a very closely built urban environment is rather poorly adapted to extreme weather phenomena, not only rain, but also heat. After all, there is now a comprehensive reform of the Land Use and Building Act, and such a specific climate clause is being planned for this law. This article should therefore put adaptation at the heart of climate change mitigation as well as at the heart of it. I fear that, in the name of climate change, there will be a call for the urban structure to be strengthened even in urban areas, thereby potentially weakening cities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u30	Mr President! This bill and the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry have been found to be excellent and necessary in this debate. After all, Finland is one of the few countries of the European Union if it is not the only one in whose territory water is being run away from the fields all the time. There is a terrible shortage of irrigation water in many countries in southern Europe, and it is precisely the other way around. What has been overlooked in this debate, in my opinion, is that when we talk about water management out of the field or water management, we usually talk about peaty, almost without exception, and, as I said in my previous speech, this is certainly the case that we have the wealth of peatland in that it always guarantees us a lasting harvest, including during the dry summer months, and that is something we will certainly have. Hard clay soils, sandy soils in dry seasons, dry summers, do not produce much of that, but it can be obtained from the peat field. So at the same time it is a very good life insurance for us, as we can feed this nation’s own field products so that we can also keep our own seeds and many other things for the next few years. So let us not hate that turf field now, because there is no basis for it. And when it comes to climate change, when we talk about whether the peat fields are sufficiently decomposed and produce carbon dioxide, a field grown for a hundred years must have given up its own carbon dioxide, and it should not be counted as a sin, at least not from carbon dioxide. The other thing that came to my mind is that once we have moved clearly to a new era in the sense that there are no more clear four seasons, at least here in the south, we must learn to live well with that. When we have about 10 million hectares of peatland area in Finland, that is the reality, and we have to learn to play with it. Now that we have talked about directing the waters away and drying them out, of course it also applies to forest land, and the President-in-Office will allow me to deviate from the forest for just a moment. It is about the fact that when we talk about peaty soils in this house a lot of negative things are said, that it makes emissions and whatever it is, if we want to do good for this country, for farms and for many farms, it means that we also treat peatland land as forest land. They are no longer sources of emissions, as the daily newspaper always wants to write. The fact is that properly fertilized and treated, our peat soils will become an excellent carbon sink. It is entirely in our own hands and is a very cheap way. By making an additional 10 million solid mots of ash fertilizer, it is quite easy to achieve — very affordable, functional, without straining the watercourses, binding carbon, binding nutrients, drying the bogs, making the water run down. Why is it that we do not want to talk about this option in this house, but simply talk about the need to stop peat bogs? We have our own keys in our hands. Let's use them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u31	Let us try to keep the rest of the speeches closely in this government proposal. Representative Honkonen is setting an example.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u32	Mr President! Indeed, with regard to these sea floods and the future sea level rise, this is not a joke, whether it is 10 or 15 meters, if we are talking about this development of the community structure. If you look at that predicted sea level rise, the largest expected sea level increases – for example, along the Gulf of Finland – will be about one metre during this century. The anticipation of rising sea levels is rather difficult, it may even rise more, some scientists have suggested this, but if it is predicted that it will rise even a metre, then in the context of these extreme weather phenomena — which are also increasing with climate change and have already increased — this effect may of course be even more uncontrollable. As the sea level rises and these extreme phenomena are increasing, of course, those effects will always reach higher levels in those extreme situations. And when we have so much of this community structure, all kinds of infra, houses — as is the case here in Helsinki, across the rest of the coast of Finland — they become huge social, economic costs when these flood damage is corrected. This is bound to be before us. When you look at the expected age of the community structure, its sustainability, how long the house, when it is built, should last — and of course it is hoped that it will last as long as possible — it would be more socially responsible to prepare for these risks as far as possible, even hundreds of years onward, instead of the subsequent generations being forced to pay for these risks and regret that you have to come to where the waves are now fluttering on the steps. So this is a serious matter. And, of course, if you look at the global scale of floods and sea floods, hundreds of millions of people live in areas that are expected to be even completely under water over the next few centuries. In other words, this is something we should be awake in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u33	Mr President! Good speeches have been made here on the need to adapt to climate change and on the many dimensions and challenges of water management. I would like to stress that it is important for both action to combat climate change and management to rely heavily on researched information. Only then will we be able to sustainably reduce emissions and adapt to the effects that are already here. Here Mr Honkonen and Mr Vestman raised the importance of urban planning, which I myself mentioned in my own speech. A compact city can be made in many ways, and it is particularly important for the management of stormwaters to ensure adequate urban green and that there is not too much surface that does not penetrate water. The municipalities, joint municipal authorities and other regional actors in the Helsinki Metropolitan Area have already adopted a common climate change adaptation strategy, extending to 2020, and it has specifically examined these adaptation measures, and new adaptation measures are currently being prepared with a new programme that will be completed by 2020. So at least here in the capital region these concerns have been raised and prepared, but it is certainly true that the level of preparedness still needs to be increased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u34	Mr President! Very good discussion and very good law. After all, the municipalities have this zoning monopoly, and the municipalities also have a duty to develop water management in line with the current situation. Floods are threatening our water supply, as has already been referred to here, and it would now be very important for municipalities to have the skills to respond to these challenges of the future. At the moment, we want to be concise, we want to be high, we want not to meet the challenges of the future. In this respect, the guidance and guidance of municipalities is, of course, essential. Of course, I do not want to get involved, but we need to strengthen our skills. For example, the current water infrastructure repair debt is quite untenable, and then the situation that these water companies will then deal with these infrastructure renovations. This situation is comprehensive and we must all take it seriously. Water supply plays a major role, even globally. Our clean waters, our agricultural-friendly countries, are crucial when we adapt to climate change when we want to keep Finland in shape. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u35	Mr President! I have listened to this good debate, and I would like to say here that when I was working for the state in the then provincial government, which involved preparation, there was talk of such terminology as special situations, and there were contingency plans for a very wide range of special situations, there was of course a nuclear accident and many more. But in general, when these matters of preparation are planned, consider the likelihood of risk, and then, if so, consider the seriousness of the matter. When I myself have wondered what might actually be the things we should be putting the most into in practice when we talk about preparedness for special situations or such extraordinary phenomena, they are extreme weather phenomena, and that is what we have been talking about here today. The second is — and I am not at all linking this debate to this infectious disease situation — different forms of epidemics, they are not necessarily directed at people, they can also be, for example, directed at fauna and other forms of threat to farming, for example. And the third is, of course, major disasters, which are more common and perhaps more familiar to us. But I wanted to stress that in the preparation work of the authorities, the extreme weather phenomena in different directions are clearly at the top of the three. Mr Vestman said here that plans must also be made for adaptation. I agree with that. It should not be thought that adaptation means that we have surrendered or in some way failed in the fight against the major adverse effects of climate change, for example. It is realism that we also have to adapt. When I first got involved with these things, I was surprised that a friend of mine had been a researcher in the United States — 20 to 30 years ago — and when he came from there to Finland, he said that the scientific research community in question was planning plants that are more resistant to climate change. That is when I began to take seriously the fact that if it is no longer a question of having an academic debate — then more about the greenhouse effect, now we are talking about climate change — it is a question of actually investing in designing plants that are successful under a few degrees warmer conditions and thus safeguard food production. These are serious issues and the debate has indeed been diverse and good.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u36	Mr President! There has been a good debate on floods and preparedness, and at the end of this debate also turned to this building and urban planning. I also think that we have extreme weather phenomena today, that they are the future, and that we should be better prepared for them than we are at present. In addition to the floods, it is also visible in the indoor air, so that just a few weeks ago, in my own hometown of Tampere, the slope collapsed from under the house. And we may have a variety of such surprising situations ahead of us, which we should be able to better prepare for in urban planning. And I wanted to raise this point in my speech just because I know that we at Finnish universities are currently doing very good research, for example, on the effects of climate change on construction and how they should be taken into account. I think that we should make better use of that information in planning, both here on the state side and in urban planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u37	Mr President! I did not intend to speak on this, but this has been an inspiring debate in the end, because there are very important issues being discussed here, and I too would like to draw more attention to adapting to this future. At the moment, we are talking too narrowly about sustainable development and global warming, and we are also looking at the indicators of sustainable development separately, that is, more should be said about climate sustainability and its support, and more should also focus on the broad picture of climate policy and its impact on the economy, employment and well-being. So we should talk about adaptation to climate change, as has been well mentioned here in many speeches. This requires, among other things, unscrupulous identification and recognition of economic and health risks, and precisely based on the knowledge studied, not by mutating. If we invest more in planning and implementing adaptation measures, it will also be possible to limit the harmful consequences of climate change more effectively. This aspect should also be taken into account in all this debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u38	Mr President! Thank you very much for a very good and varied debate. I was also very excited to take the floor just after listening to others. As far as this aspect is concerned, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen has pointed out, policy should be able to achieve policy coherence, i.e. that, for example, in the area of sustainable development, we should keep the objectives of sustainable development in mind in all policy areas. This would certainly be the best way of achieving the sustainable development objectives to which Finland is committed, and I would refer, for example, to the 2030 Agenda objectives. For example, we in the Committee on Audit have taken this attitude that when we write reports and statements on various reports, we are looking precisely at how this policy coherence is being implemented, for example, in the case of sustainable development.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u39	Mr President! Climate change increases extreme weather phenomena, which have been talked about a lot and well. Floods also have harmful consequences for security, the environment, the infrastructure of society, economic activity and even cultural heritage when it comes to the construction and buildings that we have here, if there is no provision for flood risks. This government proposal provides a good basis for us to take these risks into account, for example, in the reform of the Land Use and Building Law. For example, the floodwaters can be managed by providing sufficient areas and flow routes in the planning process, and land use planning is supported by systematic flood mapping, where flood maps provide information to public authorities and citizens about flood areas. Here, when Mr Vestman raised this reform of our land use and construction law and was afraid that we would go there to make further policies in the reform that are further condensing the population, I was wondering — he is unfortunately not here — what he meant by this. When it comes to the reform of the Land Use and Building Law, the climate change phenomenon and all the associated urbanisations and so on are taken into account in this reform of the law, and I would see that this is not the risk that our housing is concentrated in cities. We have a greater risk if we are not prepared for what these extreme weather phenomena are causing us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u40	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report TrVM 1/2020 vp by the Committee on Audit. A statement on the report will now be decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u41	Mr President! Indeed, there is a report from the National Audit Office to Parliament on the supervision of election funding in the Parliamentary elections of 2019. The supervisory function of the Audit Office’s Election Finance Act is therefore to comply with the reporting obligation, i.e. the whole set of Articles 5 to 8 of the Act. Control of other provisions of the law is not a task of the Inspectorate. For example, the restrictions on candidate funding referred to in Article 4 of the Act do not fall within the scope of control of the Audit Office but within the scope of political responsibility. In the preparation of the Election Finance Act, a balance has been sought between adequate regulation and regulatory costs and various disadvantages. The aim has been to increase the transparency of election funding and also to curb the increase in expenditure on election campaigns. All the persons obliged to report — a total of 277 — submitted an election funding notice. The biggest campaign amounted to EUR 115547 and the smallest EUR 308. The average campaign costs were EUR 34770. The average cost of the campaign has fallen slightly, by EUR 785, i.e. compared to the previous elections. The committee will continue to monitor developments. External support for campaigns accounted for 62% of total funding. In the previous elections, the share of external support was 56 per cent and in the 2011 elections 57 per cent. According to the Audit Office, the aid was also received from those who were not allowed to receive the aid in accordance with Article 4 of the Election Finance Act. The cases detected in the supervision did not exceed the aid threshold of EUR 1500, which means that the aid and its provider must be notified separately in the election finance notification. Support was also received from one and the same sponsor above the legal limit of EUR 6000. A total of 1,172 persons, or 48 per cent of all candidates, made advance notifications, and almost all did so electronically. In the previous election, 56 per cent made a prior notification, i.e. a decrease in the number of prior notifications. The Agency’s conclusion is that there are no grounds for doubting the accuracy of the notifications received by the Agency. As regards the clarification of legislative development needs, the Election Financing Act and the Party Act were last revised in 2015. Since then, in its reports, the committee has dealt with shortcomings in the form of candidate fees and Members' contributions, as well as the increase in election campaign costs. In 2016, the committee stated: ‘The increase in expenditure and the negative effects of the election campaigns on the committee’s mind, e.g.the number of candidates is set to The committee considers it worthwhile to clarify the proposal for a functioning campaign ceiling that would offset the differences in funding between candidates.’ The committee returned to this issue in 2018 when it discussed the supervision of municipal election funding and proposed that the government report on the matter. At the end of February, the Government has set up a parliamentary working group to examine the development needs of the electoral law, party law and electoral funding law and, if necessary, other legislation on political activities. The term of office of the working group ends at the end of May 2021. There's a lot of things we need to work out for the task force. They concern, inter alia, provisions and practices for reporting election and party funding to ensure that such declarations give a true picture of external funding that may give rise to potential interests. According to the Government Programme, it is also intended to increase the transparency and transparency of party and election funding by strengthening the right of the National Audit Office to monitor candidates' election funding declarations and to obtain information from third parties for this purpose. The working group should also explore ways to strengthen the notification of advance election funding information to voters even before the elections and facilitate the establishment of a campaign account. The working group should also take into account the proposals in the Parliamentary Audit Committee report 1/2018 on the role of candidate fees in election and party funding and the campaign ceiling. The Audit Committee will await the proposals of the working party and the necessary legislative changes and will return to the issue of the reports of the Audit Office on the control of election and party funding. The committee's opinion was that Parliament has no objections to the report. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u42	Mr President! Thank you to the chairman of our committee, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, for a good presentation. This was indeed unanimous, and we are trying to find a common line in committee on the basis of good debates and consultations. Where this report came to an end and where our chairman intervened was this clarification of development needs. On this point, I fully agree that everyone in democracy must have the opportunity to participate in elections regardless of their background and resources. Now the committee has previously taken the view that this will be clarified and, in accordance with the Government Programme, the Government has set up a working group to examine the development needs of the electoral funding law. The committee is waiting for these statements. With regard to this electoral ceiling, there are a few aspects. While democracy is in favour, and I certainly support the possibility of participating in the elections, it is not quite as easy or as unproblematic as you might imagine. First of all, Members of Parliament who are sitting always have the advantage of going to the parliamentary elections. In practice, the campaign ceiling would represent the role of Members of Parliament sitting in concrete. This is because, as a rule, sitting MPs are given more visibility in the media than candidates are. The campaign ceiling could also contribute to the increase in other forms of competition in elections: populist exits and sub-style campaigns could increase, as we have now seen in the USA, for example. Of course, it's not the campaign ceiling as such. Then there is the role of the media. The media use considerable power and a large media, a large player in the province is able to make a significant contribution to who will be elected or who will not be elected. The campaign ceiling will then change the competitive environment to a different mode. If one competitive factor, i.e. this campaign ceiling for example, is to change, then at the same time we must also consider how different background groups, organisations, employers' organisations, trade unions, different lobby groups will affect the visibility of the candidates. For example, how do you value social media visibility if you start a big alliance to troll for a candidate or vice versa against a candidate? What is the price, and how is it calculated? Well, I guess we're out of time, but the main thing was said. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u43	Then you can continue from this toilet if you want to speak longer, as Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen does.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u44	Thank you, Speaker! I hope, however, that I will not speak from here any longer. — Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a good presentation and to Mr Kiuru for a good speech. There were very important issues that need to be considered in the future. In this brief speech, I will take a position on both the parliamentary elections and the EU elections on the next point. As the President said in his own speech, the Election Finance Act seeks a balance between the costs of adequate regulation and regulation and the various disadvantages. The purpose of the Act is to increase transparency in election funding and information on the potential links between candidates and to limit the increase in the costs of candidates' election campaigns. The supervisory function of the National Audit Office as provided for in the Election Finance Act is to comply with the reporting obligation in the Parliamentary and EU elections in 2019. All those who were obliged to report submitted an election money announcement. In order to ensure the accuracy of the notifications, the Audit Office requested the bank statements used in the election campaign from all reporting parties as an additional statement. They were used to ensure that the contributions received from third parties were correctly entered in these declarations. In the Parliamentary elections, except for one, all the notifying parties provided additional explanations requested by the Inspectorate. In the EU elections, the additional explanations were provided by all reporting parties. In addition, in the Parliamentary elections, the Audit Office asked 92 obliged persons to complete or correct their notification, and 14 persons in the EU elections were asked to provide further clarification and it was received from all. It was mainly a question of clarifications of financial data, nothing more. All in all, it can be said that the obligation to notify is being complied with responsibly today, and that is certainly a positive thing. But, Mr President, the electoral funding law and party law have been last revised in 2015, and since then the Audit Committee has dealt in its reports with shortcomings in the contributions and parliamentary duties and the increase in election campaign costs. The committee has been concerned about the negative effects of the increase in campaign costs, i.e. whether it affects the willingness to become a candidate, and in 2016 and then again in 2018 the committee proposed a report on the campaign ceiling. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government has set up a parliamentary working group to examine the development needs of the electoral law, party law and electoral funding law and, if necessary, other legislation on political activities, and this working group began its activities on 20 February and will work until the end of May 2021. The task of the working group shall be to clarify, inter alia, the provisions and practices concerning the notification of election and party funding in order to ensure that such declarations give a correct picture of external financing which may give rise to potential interests. The working group will also explore ways to strengthen the notification of advance election funding information to voters even before the elections and facilitate the establishment of a campaign account. At the same time, the working group will also consider the proposals of the Audit Committee on the role of candidate fees in election and party funding and the campaign ceiling. Mr President! As the chairman of the committee has said, the Audit Committee is now waiting for the proposals of this working party and the necessary legislative changes, and we will come back to this when we discuss the reports of the Audit Office on the control of election and party funding. We believe it is important to continue to monitor this matter.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u45	Mr President! The shark in the size of these campaigns is quite large, from EUR 308 to EUR 115547. The average share of external aid was 62 per cent. However, since it is ultimately a matter of rather large amounts of support in a large number of campaigns, it is very good, in the name of transparency and transparency, that electoral funding is monitored. I interpret — this report when I read — that this request for statements has been seen as a good means of verification, and it is certainly good to continue with it. But I would like to draw attention to the means of ensuring that there is also a comprehensive response to further requests for clarification — fortunately there was only one case here too — so that there would be no further gaps of this kind. Similarly, it would be worth analysing — when there seemed to be quite a large number of requests for further clarification or clarification — where they were specifically requested from. So is there any reason to specify the instructions against the next part of the report in order to avoid unnecessary work on both sides? As far as these possible bigger policies are concerned, such as the campaign ceiling, I welcome the fact that this parliamentary group has been set up to deal with these needs for the development of legislation. This campaign ceiling in itself is not an unambiguous issue; Mr Kiuru here is analysing it very well. It is not an unambiguous matter, neither in the direction nor in the other. There are things in it that speak both ways, and that is why it is good that we are now starting to analyse it with the root and making decisions based on knowledge.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u46	Mr President! Democracy must be an opportunity for everyone to take part in the elections, regardless of their background and economic situation. In reality, however, there is currently a strong distribution of opportunities for participation according to socio-economic background. The campaign funding used strongly anticipates the possibility of passing through. The most educated and wealthy have a better starting point for the campaign and the best chance of being elected. According to the report, the average cost of the campaign has fallen slightly compared to the previous elections, as the chairman of the Audit Committee said in the introduction, but it still amounts to the annual income of the ordinary citizen, and that is far too much. The biggest campaign amounted to EUR 115500 and the average cost of the campaign was EUR 34770. It is therefore very good that the Audit Committee will continue to monitor developments and it is also excellent that the Government has now set up a parliamentary working group within the meaning of Prime Minister Marin's Government's programme to examine the needs for the development of electoral law, party law, electoral funding law and, if necessary, legislation on other political activities. This working group should also take into account the proposals contained in the report of the Parliamentary Audit Committee on the role of candidate contributions in election and party funding and the campaign ceiling. On this point, I would like to remind you of Mr Honkasalo's bill on the campaign ceiling last year. His initiative suggested that an election-specific campaign ceiling of 7500 in municipal elections, 30000 in parliamentary elections and 50000 in European Parliament elections would be added to the law on candidate funding. I would still be in favour of policies along these lines. Finally, making prior notification of electoral funding compulsory on a voluntary basis would be very welcome in terms of transparency and also public access to information, which is certainly to be welcomed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u47	Mr President! This report by the Inspectorate is a good one, and I think the debate here in the Chamber is a good one. Mr Kiuru raised this problem — or not the problem, but the issue of this campaign ceiling. If we were hypothetically to have a campaign roof, what would that mean to those candidates? They would start looking at where the money is worth putting, and at the moment in fact this kind of targeted Facebook advertising is a very important role, which would again be removed from our commercial media, newspapers, for which in fact these campaigns are a very big source of income. So, in a certain way, if we went to the campaign ceilings, we could accidentally even restrict our freedom of expression. The current commercial media does not feel well in Finland, and that is why these sources of income are very important to them, and that too should be borne in mind. There's a lot of sides here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u48	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. This is based on the report by the Committee on Audit, TrVM 2/2020 vp. A statement on the report will now be decided. And as you have just said, Mr Alanko-Kahiluoto, chairman of the committee, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, from this report by the National Audit Office on the European elections, it is also based on a supervisory function based on the law. I will not repeat the points I have just outlined. Here too, the same objective is to strike a balance between adequate regulation and the costs and disadvantages of regulation, with the aim of increasing transparency and curbing the increase in expenditure on election campaigns. According to the Election Finance Act, the reporting agent is responsible for the content of his notification. The obligation to notify has been extended since the previous European Parliament elections, and now the obligation to notify also applies to the second alternate. The committee made a proposal on this issue in the context of the report on the previous European elections. The Audit Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the reporting obligation has been extended in the European Parliament elections. Even from outside the first thief of the period, there is an obligation to report, and in this respect the transparency of election funding has improved. All persons obliged to report, 27 persons, filed an election funding notice. According to the Audit Office, the campaign costs of the obliged persons varied very much. The biggest election campaign cost EUR 203785 and the smallest campaign EUR 542. The average campaign costs were approximately EUR 56880. Outside aid accounted for 61% of total funding. According to the Audit Office, the aid was also received from those who were not allowed to receive the aid in accordance with Article 4 of the Election Finance Act. One case detected under supervision exceeded the aid ceiling of EUR 1500, after which the aid and its provider must be notified separately in the election finance notification. The preliminary notification was submitted by 88 persons. In the previous election, 61 per cent of the persons who were obliged to give prior notice and 65 per cent of the persons required to do so. This time, the percentages were 33 per cent of all candidates and 30 per cent of those obliged to report, i.e. there has been a decrease in prior notification. The Agency’s conclusion is that there are no grounds for doubting the accuracy of the notifications received by the Agency. With regard to the need to improve legislation with regard to the obligation to notify and review the European elections, I would say the same thing as with our recent report on the parliamentary elections: that is to say, the fact that the government has appointed a parliamentary working party to examine all the needs for the development of legislation, and the committee will be waiting for the proposals of the working party and the necessary legislative changes, and will come back to the point when it deals with the reports of the Audit Office on the control of election and party funding. We propose, in the committee's opinion, that Parliament should have no objections to the report. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u50	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Culture. Let's go to a conversation opened by the first signatory of the initiative, Congressman Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u51	Mr President! In my legislative initiative, I propose that the Youth Act and the Act on Sport include in the conditions for the award of national grants the requirement that, if the Youth Act applies to young people and sports law, an association operating with minors commits itself to preventing the use of tobacco and nicotine products and other substances in all its activities. Thank you to all the representatives who have participated across party boundaries in this initiative to promote the well-being of children and young people. Mr President! The number of drug-related deaths has increased continuously, especially among young people. The number of drug deaths among young people is up to ten times higher than five years ago. In 2018, almost a hundred under 30-year-olds died of drugs. This is a shockingly large number of lost young lives and has caused great grief to loved ones, families and schoolmates. It is therefore alarming to note that, at the same time, the attitude towards drugs among young people has been loosened and spoken of in a positive way. Every young person who is lost to drugs is someone’s child, sister or friend, and a lost chance. In addition, the explosively increased use of snuff by young people is worrying. Snus and tobacco pose a significant risk to cancer, vascular and pulmonary diseases. The snus contains a number of cancerous substances and heavy metals that expose cancers in the mouth and throat area. Few young people or even adults are aware of these risks. Nicotine is a very toxic chemical and quickly creates a strong dependence on the user. In 2019 10 per cent of boys and 3 per cent of girls used snuff daily. For example, Finland In the study of the Cancer Association, the use of snuff is often associated with sport and especially team sports. For children and young people, sportsmen and coaches are often idols, so their activities and attitudes to substance abuse have a significant impact. In June 2017, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health set up a working group to present proposals for legislative amendments and other measures to promote and support the end of use of tobacco and nicotine products by 2030. One of the group’s proposals was to involve smoking prevention in youth and sports activities. One criterion for the distribution of national subsidies could be the commitment to the prevention of the use of tobacco and nicotine products — which I propose in this bill — and that would be a good start. Good practice in preventing smoking among young people should be disseminated in youth work, but more is needed. It should be obvious that the youth and sports organisations that are assisted by the state must also commit themselves to intoxication. At the population level, smoking among young people has decreased, but unfortunately it has continued to do so and the proportion of girls has increased and at the same time its use has been concentrated in the lower socio-economic group. The use of snoop has grown in both girls and boys. The use of snoop is more common among sportsmen, especially those who engage in team sports. Actors and athletes of sports and youth organisations working with children and young people are important role models for children and young people. The growth of young people in a holistic and intoxicant sportsman's lifestyle is important from the beginning of the hobby. Health-promoting actors must continue to support the work of sport federations and sports clubs. The impact of sports clubs and organisations on the lives of young people is great, and in this respect I would like to clarify both the Youth Act and the Sports Act. I therefore propose that the Youth Act and the Sports Act be amended in such a way that state aid for minors and young organisations is conditional on a commitment to prevent the use of tobacco and nicotine products and other substances in their activities. It is clear that state-aided clubs must commit themselves to promoting the health of young people. At the very least, it would be reasonable for sports clubs and organisations that receive public funding to commit themselves to this objective. Mr President! In my legislative initiative, therefore, I propose that the conditions for the award of national grants be added to the Act on Youth and Sport, according to which, if the Youth Act applies to young people and sports law, an association operating with minors commits itself to preventing the use of tobacco products, nicotine products and other substances in all its activities. Mr President! Organisations and associations play a key role in setting the example for children and young people. The responsibility of the public operator does not end with the granting of money. If the activities of the organisation receiving the grant are to be followed up by violations of the criteria for grants, then there must also be courage to address them afterwards. A tightening of the law in this respect is justified. The criteria for grants have a significant guiding effect on the actors involved in the organisation. Our legislation must be in order if we are to promote the right of our children and young people to substance abuse-free hobbies and sports activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u52	Mr President! Thank you, Mr. Laiho, for the bill. In this speech, I am thinking about the content of the initiative and its important theme at a slightly more general level. Sport, sports and youth organisations have traditionally been considered to play an important role as a nation’s mover and promoters of healthy lifestyles, raising national identities and raising children and young people. Healthy lifestyles are considered to be one of the main objectives of the organized organization field, to which many organisations are also committed. Intoxicant abuse is an activity that aims to increase health, safety and well-being. This is done by promoting healthy lifestyles, preventing and reducing substance abuse and increasing understanding and management of the substance abuse phenomenon. Intoxicants whose use and harm prevention work is effective include alcohol, drugs, snuff and tobacco. Organisations do not emerge or live in a vacuum separate from the rest of society and its other actors. The environment has a significant activity-modifying effect. Work to prevent alcohol, tobacco and other substance abuse harm in sports, sports and youth organisations is one example of the interactive activities of society and organisations. Increasing and intensifying cooperation between different actors in society can also be seen as a major resource in terms of the effectiveness and effectiveness of substance abuse work. Together, the organisations form a wide field of actors and a communication network, the maximum use of which would enable huge potential to be made more effective in the various activities. The means to prevent substance abuse depend on the level in which the organization operates. National umbrella organisations strive to establish ethical rules and guidelines. Lobby organisations have an important role to play in the building of forms of cooperation and environments where members are offered a wide range of opportunities to promote well-being and health. National alliances are flag ships of their own kind. They define to a large extent the rules of play and the ethical values that are translated into practical actions as part of the activities of their own group. The rules and guidelines are concrete in the activities of local clubs and organisations. Mr President! The discussion on substance abuse in clubs and organisations is often educational and educational in nature. Such activities emphasise the responsibility of individual directors and trainers to communicate information. The emphasis on the educational role of operators in the sector, in addition to other preventive substance abuse work in the organisation, requires a number of important issues to be taken into account. Firstly, there must be an adequate framework and tools for supporting coaches and instructors. There is also a need for genuine commitment and responsibility on the part of these people in terms of their own behaviour and habits, as well as for the courage to intervene in cases of breaches of common operating rules. There is also a need for dialogue between organisations and parents, especially for children and young people. Preventive substance abuse work through sports, sports and youth organisations has a huge potential, as it reaches a very significant proportion of the population. For example, sports clubs reach between 70 and 80 per cent of young people before the age of 20, according to different measurement methods. President! After these considerations, it is important that the debate continues. The bill brings out exactly the right objective. A goal aimed at an increasingly healthy, safe and prosperous society. In the current Youth Act, the promotion of healthy lifestyles is more widespread than for alcohol, tobacco or nicotine products in general. Of course that's a good thing. The aim of the Sports Act is to promote the well-being and health of the population, to maintain and improve physical functional capacity, and to promote the growth and development of children and young people. In addition, the basis for achieving these goals is the law on healthy lifestyles. Mr President! Whether there is a need to change the law, to complete it or to discuss it more and more in general is a good place to think about it. That is the merit of this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u53	Mr President! Representative Laiho has drawn attention to a very important issue. It is absolutely essential that we should be able to better prevent the use of snuff and tobacco products and drugs, not only for young people but also for adults. This is where we adults and decision-makers have a big responsibility, and that is why it is very important that we are now discussing this issue. I would like to thank Mrs Laiho for raising this issue. The problems caused by drugs, including the problems caused by tobacco products, both for the national economy and for people, we have too little talk in society. Recently in YLE News, it was reported that the majority of children’s parental care is due to parental substance abuse. In particular, drug and drug abuse is an increasing problem for the whole of Finland, but alcohol also continues to cause a billion-dollar cost to society and also a tremendous amount of human suffering. Mr Laiho's initiative concerns the activities of organisations, and Mr Kivisaari well described the enormous potential on the part of our young and children's lives. Young people and children are adults of the future, so the educational work that we are now doing among them will also be seen more strongly in the future in the lives of adults. Otherwise, we would also be good at guiding young people into an intoxicated way of life in different areas of life, at home and in various hobbies. Above all, in my opinion, in both tobacco and substance abuse policy, we should remember that the life and well-being of the child and young people always leaves the home and family. It is also important to support work in homes and families. At the moment, we have the huge problem that too many parents have problems with drugs. I am very pleased that the government has committed itself in its programme to making every effort to reduce the use of tobacco products and to reduce the harm caused by the use of drugs and to pay attention to other addictions. A mental health strategy was recently completed, under which the reduction of substance use is also outlined, and the substance abuse strategy is also separately updated. The government's line is the right one, and in this work we need different perspectives and cross-party cooperation in order to improve the quality of life of our children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u54	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Laiho, for this bill. We will get another important issue for the debate here in Parliament. There are more young drug users in Finland than ever before, according to a recent study published in Duodecim magazine last week. Although alcohol consumption among young people has decreased, there is concern about the increase in snuff and drug use. These things should be taken seriously. From a public health point of view, we need effective means. We should be brave enough to experiment with new operating models and regulations to solve the problem. One of the proposals of the tobacco and nicotine policy group set up by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health in 2017 had also been proposed in the initiative that a commitment to the prevention of the use of tobacco and other nicotine products should be added as one of the criteria for the distribution of national grants. A total of 64 opinions were received by the Ministry, of which the Ombudsman for Children was quoted: ‘Children and young people are easilyimposed in practice, but young people also have an impact on young people’s attitudes at the tobacco age. “ In preventing the use of young people's drugs, I think it would be important for youth and sports clubs to take into account their own influence in the life of young people and to be aware of the responsibility of sports culture and also their own responsibilities. The number of pensioners under 25 is increasing in Finland. Although the number of young pensioners is not yet very high, the trend is worrying. Studies show that early retirement is a risk factor for substance abuse problems. With intoxication, we can help young people but also other age groups in our population to remain able to work. Approximately 20,000 people are transferred to disability pension in Finland each year, and at present six per cent of our working-age population are entitled to an invalidity pension. Preventive work is also cheaper and more humane than dealing with these problems later.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u55	Mr President! A bill by Representative Laiho must be supported. For decades, several studies have proved and strengthened our understanding of the harmful effects of drugs on human health and development, especially for children and young people. We have also received worrying information on the use of drugs in young people of school age through school health surveys. Although drunken drinking has generally decreased, it seems that young people’s consumption of tobacco and alcohol is no longer decreasing as before. In addition, the use of snuff has increased in girls since the 2010s. Approximately 6% of girls between 16 and 18 years of age and about 15% of boys have daily or occasional use. Among other things, this information is reflected in a survey of young people aged 12 to 18 on health habits last year. Although the bill is to be welcomed, there are a number of issues that deserve particular attention. It is important to ensure that young people who may have been caught, for example, using tobacco products in a youth organisation or sports organisation, are not excluded from the activities of the organisation. For young people, youth or sports organisations can be one of the few places to attach themselves to our society. It is important that a young person can safely be himself and receive experience and a model of an intoxicated environment. The influence of a group of friends on young people’s behavior is great, and that’s why learning to be and being in a group without drugs is also important. Organisations should have more knowledge and responsibility for educational work that highlights healthy lifestyles and intoxication. With this initiative, organisations would commit themselves to preventing the use of tobacco and nicotine products and other substances in all their activities. I do not think that the model of sanctions through funding is a suitable incentive for organisations and operators. The development of the skills of youth actors, raising awareness, clear guidelines and guidelines for action to be pursued and monitored are essential. Young people should be offered opportunities to participate on a low threshold and more help and advice on getting rid of drugs. The Government Programme has also committed itself to promoting physical activity, weight management, healthy nutrition and intoxication as part of the prevention of social exclusion among young people, and to addressing the use of young people's drugs and gambling addiction and ensuring a level playing field for young people. In the spirit of the principles of my grandfather, who was once active in the sobriety movement, I believe that much can be accomplished by education and education.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u56	Mr President! Until recently, I was a secondary school and high school teacher, especially for the age group that takes decisive steps to try out tobacco products and various drugs. As a teacher of that age class, I often wondered how snooping, especially among young men playing hockey, was considered to be a very relevant part of that hobby culture. By the way, healthy lifestyles were practiced and practiced, but a favorable attitude toward the use of snuff violated that otherwise positive image of the species. I was convinced that hockey boys were protected by the silent consent of the adults working with the sport, or at least by overlooking the minimum disadvantage principle. Tobacco does not belong so much in the world of sportsmen, but the image of snuff is more problematic. Regrettably, hockey professionals who sniff and then want to imitate are showing a bad pattern. Snus is easy to obtain in the north, near the Swedish border, and then bring to its own area for wide distribution. In this context, I would also like to say that the release of snuff for controlled sales in Finland, like tobacco, would deprive Sweden of the wrong competitive advantage. Representative Laiho suggests that state support for sports and hobbies groups should be linked to a commitment to take a negative view, among others, of the use of snuff among those in hobby activities. I think that this is a very welcome proposal that, for example, youth hockey clubs should unambiguously withdraw from snuff, other tobacco products and various types of substance, and that this would be a condition for obtaining support. Youth organisations are doing very important work, and adults working in it must also have in mind the perspective of the educator and the adult who guides them to the right. It is responsible for youth work to unambiguously dissociate itself from all the activities that call into question health, which are the use of all kinds of drugs. Let the conditional nature of the aid be stricken in this rigid activity.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u57	Mr President! Representative Laiho's bill is good and, of course, makes you wonder if the species unions are doing enough. Of course, even after a somewhat provocative speech by Congressman Mattila... He picked up his beak pretty hard on hockey. I myself sometimes know that there have been problems there, but it is not now the only species or club where these problems exist. You have to look at this with a much larger picture than just focusing on one species. We have a lot of different drug addictions among young people. The fact that alcohol consumption has now decreased among young people is a good feature, but there has been a clear increase in the use of cannabis and opioids — in fact, addiction to opioids is the most common reason for seeking substance abuse — and, in a certain way, I am concerned about whether we will be able to tackle these problems at federal or social level, because they may not be seen. In fact, the same applies to gambling addiction. You can't tell me from the outside whether this girl or boy is a gambling addict now or not. It's harder to see than, for example, that snuff on the lip there. That is why we should look at this in a wider spectrum and focus on this substance abuse problem in general, not just one specific part of it — although, of course, the use of snuff has become more common in Finland at the moment, both among girls and boys, so that problem must also be taken seriously. But as a society, we would see this as a big enough problem, because addiction to substance abuse is currently becoming more common in many sectors.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u58	Mr President! The subject matter we are discussing here in the Chamber is very important. In the case of young people, and also of young people who are doing sports intoxicants, snorting has become the main concern, as has been said many times here today. At the end of last year, cancer organisations explained how young people involved in sports clubs get control of snuff, how to use it and how to communicate it, and how to tackle the use of youth snuff in sports clubs. The results of the study strongly highlighted the strength of the example. Among other things, youths reported that the coach’s example of promoting snoopiness was not convincing if the coach was found to be using snuff himself. Many of the clubs and teams stressed that there is zero tolerance for snuff in their company. Nevertheless, youths reported that among coaches the use of snuff is very common. Here, too, it can be said that this famous phrase “than the elf of the eunuch ” does not have effective measures. The clubs and teams also hoped for more systematic guidance from their associations on how to tackle the use of snuff. The interview also revealed that there was a lack of clarity between the various actors who have a responsibility to promote young people's snoopiness. Teams and clubs stressed the cooperation between home and sports clubs while trying to minimise the educational role of the club as it focused on sports training. This sounds very sad. Mr President! Prevention of the use of drugs by children and young people is the responsibility of all those involved in the treatment of children and young people, not least of the families, but also of the organisations providing services to the school, youth work, social welfare and health services, physical activity and children and young people. All this debate that has taken place in this Chamber today on the subject is necessary. All the common actions that contribute to young people’s intoxication are welcome. I myself have been the chairman of the sports club for several years and I know how important social work is not only for the health, well-being and well-being of young people, but also for the preventive work of municipalities and thus also for the municipal economy. I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Thin for this good initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u59	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Laiho, for this initiative. The bill is generally at least very welcome, and if nothing else, this debate is very welcome. It is important to support the growth of young people in a holistic and intoxicant sportsman's way of life, especially from the beginning of the hobby. At the same time, it must be pointed out that there is a strong change in the practice: I watched on television this weekend how young people played console football against each other. In this regard, Mrs Wallinheimo raised this problem of gambling addiction, a problem which is very difficult to observe, and e-sports will inevitably change that traditional hobby field. We need to make it possible for young people to have an intoxicated hobby, no matter what kind of hobby it is, and no matter how foreign it is to us middle-aged or slightly more experienced. In particular, it is difficult for the state-aided clubs to see a difference of opinion on this issue. I hope that those involved will have the courage to do what is best for children and young people, even though this work is not always as easy as it appears on paper. There is opposition and there are many opinions, but we adults are the decisive example and support that children and young people need.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u60	Mr President! Representative Laiho has taken a legislative initiative to amend Section 17 of the Youth Act and Section 10 of the Sports Act. A text which would require the association to commit itself to preventing the use of tobacco and nicotine products and other substances in all its activities. I personally think that this is very, very good and necessary in terms of its objectives and, as has been mentioned in many of the speeches before, so it is recognised that the use of drugs and their diversity has increased and, unfortunately, it has been a more recent trend among young people and must be addressed. Of course, clubs and associations play a central role in meeting many of these young people in their own activities. As many as 1.3 million children and young people are involved in association and association activities, so there is also a big responsibility on the part of the actors. Now this bill may be the first thing that comes to mind for me: how about other cultural organizations: do you always, in a way, have to record in such detail the law level of this kind of requirement? Because my opinion is that, for example, this social responsibility and so on is already being evaluated when state aid is assessed and when grants, public money, are being awarded to these associations and organisations. They have taken the catch quite well, and they should, for example, because such activities are already prohibited by other legislation, for example, that minors should be allowed some kind of substance abuse, nicotine or alcohol or other substances. Which means that it is already the basis if such activities are seen that can be cancelled or recovered or otherwise taken aside from such an association where the activity is not responsible and ethical. I do not see the need for these books here, but for this spirit and idea very much need. At that level of regulation, it may be possible to make those changes, but I am not sure if this entry is just there. Like this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u61	Mr President! I too would like to thank Mrs Laiho for this good initiative and also for the good speeches she has made in this debate. I hope that, now that the committees are not congested with the government's proposals, good parliamentary initiatives of this kind could be discussed and listened to by experts there, and if there is no direct initiative to change the laws or to write the articles, then at least those key principles could be brought out as the will of Parliament. I am sure that many people feel that this kind of change is over-preservation, but I would stress that these organisations, sports organisations, youth organisations, are committed to promoting intoxication and trying to prevent the use of drugs. There are many good principles in the law that organisations must commit to today and that they are committed to promoting when they receive support from the State. I think that this change in this initiative is very much to be welcomed and is well suited to the issues promoted in the organisation's activities, among these other good principles, equality, equality and so on. Finland has been a frontline country in the fight against smoking and in reducing smoking. We have already had a number of reforms to the Tobacco Act before many other countries, in which other countries have followed, such as the ban on smoking in workplaces and restaurants. I find it a little sad that Finland seems to have stalled in this tobacco policy. The price weapon is used, and it is quite right, and it should be used much more vigorously than it is today, but these other measures to reduce smoking are too little. Where are the regulations on non-branded tobacco packs that are already being used in many countries? Where is the promotion of a ban on balconies so as to bypass the unnecessary bureaucracy of the current law and give the general meeting of housing companies the right to decide to ban the balconies of the housing company? I support and encourage such proposals from the government here in Parliament. Similarly, smoking should be banned in many such areas where it is now allowed. Of course, the importance of such things and reforms should not be overemphasized, but these are all welcome additions when we act against drugs and against the use of drugs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u62	Mr President! As Mr Kivisaari said, about 70 to 80 per cent of children and young people go through this loop, so they do. But there is the 20-30% which are not currently engaged in, and they are currently experiencing growing lifestyle problems, especially obesity, and the substance abuse culture is still quite different, so we should also be concerned about this 20-30%, or particularly concerned. As I said, these sportsmen or other sportsmen are at least in some way dealing with trainers or instructors all the time, but how about these rest? And this is the issue of social importance which I am sure should also be dealt with in the near future, because this group must be particularly concerned about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u63	Mr President! We already see that Mr Laiho's bill has raised the debate that we all certainly hope for in this Chamber. As a former athlete and a likely future junior coach, I am extremely grateful for this debate, whether I like it or not. The role of parents and coaches and professional athletes as an example is enormous. The city can also play a responsible role. I would like to praise my magnificent hometown of Kouvola — if not, please the President. Kouvola has worked very hard with sports clubs to promote a life without snooping. The clubs and athletes have been very committed, and at the same time we must also rely on the responsible activities of the clubs. We have to believe in a human being. Let the sanctions be that small confidence-building factor there at the end. In this context, I now invite the other municipalities to follow the fine example of Kouvola. We can actually influence, and the opportunity to improve the lives of children and young people, intoxicated life and physical activity is significant. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u64	Mr President! These undisputed challenges, which exist both at social level and at national level, have been highlighted in this debate and, therefore, there are ethical, perhaps unhealthy, phenomena of this kind, and this debate is very important. However, I would also like to raise a slightly different point of view in this debate, and the point of view that we must all remember is that in sports clubs and, as an extension, all the numerous third-sector players are doing a lot of daily heroics, also as a catalyst for such intoxication and healthy lifestyles. In other words, I would avoid such a strong stigmatisation in this debate to the effect that such organizational or social activities, as it were, have enormous sorrows that should be avoided a little, even from children, in other words, they are mainly doing wonderful work to encourage this intoxication and healthy lifestyle, including a representative. The beauty raised a fine example of the municipality. I myself am the vice-president of the State Sports Council, and a little inspired by this debate too, I am happy to take the message and also the themes of this debate. The State Sports Council is also an important body to consider these aspects raised by this bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u65	Mr President! Thank you for this good debate which has taken place in this Chamber on the basis of this initiative, and thank you to all those who have signed it. Education and the example of adults have emerged here, and I am also strongly in favour of education, that is what we must do, and the example of adults also has an impact. In view of this use of snuff, sad news has been read, among other things, about how even adults bring snuff to children so that they can sell it forward in Finland, so that there is much room for improvement in attitudes among adults as well. For example, Nordic cooperation could try to get Sweden in some way with regard to the production of this snuff. Especially do they do the strong snuff that they practically only export abroad. Which means we'll have to do this work in other areas too. Now this bill hits one point: by means of organizational and social activities, we try to get this message forward from healthy lifestyles. Of course, these other dimensions of sports activities are often involved — nutrition, exercise — and they naturally emerge from it. They do an excellent job there. Every little thing we can do to promote the health of children and young people is worth doing, and that is why I see this as one part of it. The representative, Mr Hopsu, expressed the concern that the children and young people who have used it would not then be stigmatised. Of course, that is not the point. This is a message to those actors that they are promoting intoxication in their own activities, and thus also to coaches and operators that this is not allowed here. But this is not about sanctioning young people. One example of Espoo: when I took the boy to the ice hall, there was already on the wall that the use of snuff was prohibited in the ice hall premises. That sports clubs are already doing this anti-drug work, and this bill continues to encourage this. The representative, Mr Asell, has mentioned these other organisations which receive state aid. I agree that there is much room for improvement. And it is good that they are taken into consideration, now that we have found that there are many other shortcomings, whether they relate to the theatre or figure skating and so on. There are a lot of things that we should also look at as a whole on what grounds
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u66	Mr President! I am sure there has been a good debate here in this Chamber on this commendable bill, and I am sorry that I am late to discuss it now. — — — — Personally, I think it is very important to highlight these criteria and criteria for state aid and to seek intoxication at all levels, of course, but especially for children and young people who are vulnerable. Of course, as has been shown in this speech, the strength of the example is very important, that is to say, they look and admire their idols, their role models, and, of course, they would like to take a very firm stand on the fact that, for example, the use of snuff in certain hobby circles, which, unfortunately, has also increased to some extent, is being curbed. We have also heard in an expert hearing that the most common reason for applying for substance abuse care today is opiates, and this must also be mentioned in this debate, that although perhaps more has been said about alcohol and nicotine preparations, so there has also been an increase in drug abuse and opiates. Of course, what comes to mind as a decision-maker is this question of control, whether we monitor the use of it or not, and then this cooperation between the Nordic countries, which was raised in Mr Laiho's speech. We should use some kind of strong political pressure in the direction of Sweden so that this can be eradicated and strong snooping around here in Finland and in other countries would then be ignored. It feels really bad and bad that I myself, as a mother, have come across the fact that young people in my own hometown have such a very, perhaps even too acceptable, attitude toward the use of snuff. That even if there is such a negative attitude to any other product, alcohol or tobacco, then it may be thought that snuff is less evil than it really is. Cancer organisations and experts, such as the Medical Association, have stressed that there are dozens of carcinogenic substances in the snuff, and what the long run of using it will bring to the health and health of the mouth, we can only imagine what it will do. In other words, we are on an important issue, and hopefully this bill will go forward and there will be more talk about this, not just in terms of sports clubs, of course, or in terms of physical activity, but in society as a whole across the board. We certainly have a lot to do here as parliamentarians, but also as decision-makers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u67	Mr President! A little confused is the number of signatories: more than half of the assembly had signed this, so if more than half of all parties had signed, there would be more than 100 signatures here and we would be talking about this on a different scale then, because then this would be a serious bill — now this has not happened. But when Mr Kivisaari mentioned, for example, the role of the State Sports Council, it could already be the one who could, in fact, focus more on this intoxicant abuse in general and possibly instruct various unions. On the basis of this debate, too, you have the best means of putting that message forward, even though this is certainly not going to go to the law, but how, in fact, all the parties are represented here — well, perhaps not all the parties, but it was very much the same. I would therefore now like this to be dealt with also in that seriousness in the State Sports Council.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u68	Mr President! Here Mr Kivisaari just said that this initiative certainly does not mean moralising sports clubs or saying that there would be bad work there, or saying that they have so far been unworkable. I myself am one of the signatories to this initiative. As I said, I too have a sporting background, and I feel that I wrote the name because this debate is very important to raise. Of course, there is a lot of work to be done there, but when we were still talking about the fact that, in a way, dozens of young people are excluded from this sport club work, who do not have access to the sphere of influence, many of them are doing such low-threshold work. I myself have been at the Hippo competition at the edge of the field bonging children and young people and attracting them to the action. From the age of one, they are going down that track, running the race, and two to three-year-olds, young people. Of course, there is such basic work done at grassroots level, so that more and more children and young people are being sought from there. I am also aware, as a municipal decision-maker, that sports clubs are also very important to the municipality and to the well-being of residents and to the interface that lies between them. In other words, it is absolutely not intended to moralise sports clubs here, but to consider how things could be done better and to support sports clubs in their work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u69	Mr President! This is where Mr Huttunen said very well, and I am sure Mr Kivisaari meant that the clubs are precisely the great opportunity we have, and we should not blame them for anything, but rather encourage and support those opportunities. I also think that the previous speech by Mrs Wallinheimo was a good one — the routes that will enable us to influence and help. I would still like to bring to this debate the aspect of this e-sports that it is actually passing the number of football enthusiasts in Finland very quickly, that is to say, we are talking about the biggest sport that is practiced. And how does it happen in clubs? I'm sure it doesn't always happen. And how we get to these young people and help them is a whole new question. If we are thinking that there are already many young people in Asia who are not even able to get to the store by the computer, then at that point we must also be able to think about these modern sports of the future — if now e-sports is the future sport when it is already the present one — and extend it to our own point of view and perspective so that we can improve the lives of every young person and child with our own strength.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u70	Mr President! Just as Mr Huttunen did, so for the same reason I asked for the floor again, so in no case was it intended to moralise or criticise, for example, the hockey activities I have just mentioned. I would like to call for more such a line in that when you really try to do things like this excellent hobby by the adults, then you would then be lineed right up to the end, that is, it then includes promoting healthy lifestyles like this and it does not include the use of any kind of tobacco products. Representative Laiho's bill is like this kind of proposal action, which, like a whip, then also these kind of grown-ups pull it together in their own operations. Mr Hänninen raised the snoop in his speech and, as I mentioned in the first speech, we are actually in a rather awkward situation here in Finland, especially in the region of Northern Ostrobothnia, which is close to the Swedish border. We will take all the disadvantages caused by the use of snuff here to treat and pay, and Sweden will then have that particular advantage. In other words, I would actually see a solution to the fact that the sale of snuff products in Finland would be subject to similar legal control. That would mean that the EU level should apply for such a special permit and then for this similar procedure, which is what Sweden is, but I think it is the only way forward. Until then, we will only suffer from the mere handicaps here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u71	Mr President! As I said earlier, the law change is perhaps a little strong and this point is inefficient, so that yes it is the education and those action campaigns and other, what such organization, the association can be offered, are the tool. And here, as has been said earlier, the Sports Council could quite well outline and highlight this problem, that is to say, the increase in intoxicants and bad lifestyles that today exists among young people. Even in the training activities and in their daily lives, it has been self-evident that the use of drugs and snooping is not suitable for young people, and I have intervened, but if it became more campaigning at the club or union level, it would certainly be more effective. It would then be more invested in it and it would be possible to educate it, and some kind of campaign funding could also be allocated to organisations. This kind of snuff now has been a problem for years, and its sale is prohibited. Sweden has received a special licence from the EU to sell it as long as it does not spread beyond its borders — it has not worked. On that basis it should either be stopped from Sweden as well when it is not in control, and the alternative is that — as the previous speaker said here — since it now comes to Finland and it is now being brought here and it is constantly being brought among young people, we do allow the sale of those milder snoops and nicotine, but that in some way it also becomes tax money for us, the state, and we also have the resources to do this educational work. It could be a much more effective system than this one, that it is completely forbidden — I believe so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u72	Honorable Speaker! Mrs Wallinheimo quite rightly encouraged the State Sports Council to play a role in this matter, and the previous speaker, Mr Asell, is also the first vice-chairman there. I'm sure we'll take the message of this conversation forward there. I would also like to make sure that my contribution was certainly not an accusation of this debate, not by any means, but to support and remind you of the numerous success stories that are being made in relation to social activity, for example, intoxicating. But that does not mean, of course, that such organizational activities, of which the associations are examples, should not be improved or improved or developed. Even as a result of this debate, this bill has had a need for a healthier, safer and more prosperous society. One more comment on this. We have been talking here about alcohol, drugs, nicotine products — tobacco, snuff — but perhaps energy drinks are also part of the same field. And while such a streetman’s feeling is that the initial hydration of energy drinks may have contributed to a slight stabilisation, among young people, often including those involved in social activity, the presence of these energy drinks is too strong.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u73	Mr President! I myself am involved in activities that support both sports and youth actors and teams precisely to promote these goals while funding is being provided, and it has worked very well. This bill is to be welcomed in many respects. I was just thinking about the fact that I have noticed some contradictions in its activities. They are prepared to accept these principles in relation to tobacco products and alcohol and so on and to share them with children and young people, of course, and to promote them, but, as we know, alcohol advertising is a close part of this same thing, and it has often risen up against the fact that the teams in junior activities accept this, but then, on the other hand, the adults behind it often want alcohol advertising or other things to remain in these halls, and also, for their part, to ensure that beer is sold in an ice hall or elsewhere, and they want to ensure that. So here if moralization was talked about, then yes such practical problems come because they are very important for money coming back to these clubs. When these are considered, it is very interesting to think that, of course, perhaps through children and young people, it is the easiest way to approach this point of view and that is why, in this bill, the objectives are good, but its change also needs to take place in some way there in adults, in order to be able to further the objectives that this bill seeks to achieve.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u74	First signatory of the bill, Representative Laiho.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u75	Mr President! There have been a lot of sports clubs and sports associations here, but I would like to emphasise here that this applies to all hobby activities and organisational activities, it is a wide field. Hopefully, they will also find their own hobby activities for those who are interested in e-sports who may not be interested in that sport, but there is someone else who likes it. It is also important for us to prevent the exclusion of young people that everyone finds their own way. The State Sports Council was raised here in the speeches by Mrs Wallinheimo and Mr Aselli, and this is a very important issue if there is a greater commitment to intoxication. The fact that this amendment of the law does not matter, however, I do not sign it, because I personally believe that all that is recorded in the law matters. When the grants are applied for and the activities are run, they are committed in that way with a completely different intensity, knowing that the money depends on them, as if that money were not involved in it as an intense factor, in that sense it is the money that directs it. Then, with regard to the problems of snooping, as far as Sweden is concerned, there are of course many things here: Nordic cooperation, but then we, too, in Finland, would be able to influence this ferry traffic between Sweden, where it is sold with certain restrictions, where it can be sold, not here. Could we also be affected at national level? Then, of course, this EU level, when Sweden has received a special right to produce it in Sweden so that it is not allowed to go abroad, but it does not work, should it be reviewed at EU level? Finally, Mr Kivisaari raised the issue of energy drinks: I agree that they do not contribute to health either and are not needed by children and young people, and I have been promoting the restriction on their sales. That has not yet been achieved, but at least that is something that trades are paying attention to today, and, for my part, their use could still be restricted to people under the age of 15 to 16.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u76	Mr President! I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. Once again, lean on this bill and thank the Chamber for a good debate. There could be a lot of tools here that could help us to reduce the use of snuff among young people. Among other things, the Ice Hockey Federation took a powerful hit on the Pohjola camp a few years ago. There more than a dozen boys were caught using the snuff, and they were immediately sent home. That's it. Their national team trip from that year. So this is what certain means we would have, and these powerful strikes could be arranged in other species associations. It is quite clear that there are certainly other species of snoopers. Could this perhaps be such a specific tool, what could be done through the State Sports Council to take forward now, because such activities scare them young people, and it had a clear effect on the use of snuff also among hockey-playing young people at the point when this kind of power strike was arranged.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-03-11-ps-21.u77	The next plenary session of the Parliament will be held on Thursday 12 March 1920 at 4 p.m. There are, among other things, Nordic border barriers in the debate, and there you can probably continue this snooping. This plenary session is closed. Thank you, everyone!
