ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u1	The 8th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on the Future, to which the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Administrative Affairs, the Committee on Transport and Communications, the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, the Committee on Culture, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Labour and Equal Opportunities and the Committee on the Environment must give an opinion. Following the presentation by Prime Minister Sanna Marin, the debate will take place at a rapid pace with regard to the speeches requested in advance. Group speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. After group talks, a 1.5-hour debut will follow, divided into two 45-minute sections so that the groups can exchange debators halfway through the debators. Other pre-reserved speeches shall not exceed 5 minutes. The Council of Presidents recommends that speeches after a rapid debate take up to a maximum of 5 minutes. Up to 3 hours are reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u2	Mr President, ärade talman! According to the UN’s happiness report, the happiest people in the world live in Finland. That is something we can be proud of. Our standard of living is high, our society is functional, our environment is clean, and the quality of life is perceived to be good. Finns trust each other and the institutions of society. The Finnish welfare society has been built with determination and long-term cooperation between different actors. An equal and socially cohesive society is also at the root of our economic success. High-quality and accessible education has been one of the most important factors in the development of our society. However, our society is not yet ready. The well-being of the future must be built on the basis of sustainable development. Therefore, the Government Programme also aims at a socially, economically and environmentally sustainable society. Our main task over the next few years and decades is to build a Nordic welfare society that is climate-friendly and environmentally sustainable. Instead of over-use of natural resources, our economy will have to build on resource-efficient use of materials and their cycle. The circular economy and clean technology solutions also offer Finland the opportunity to grow exports and employment. By reforming our economy more climate-friendly and environmentally sustainable, we will not only reduce our own carbon footprint but also increase our global handprint as a solution to climate change. In 2015, Finland has committed itself to the implementation of the Global Agenda for Sustainable Development. This UN Agenda for 2030 includes 17 objectives aimed at poverty eradication and sustainable development, which takes equal account of the environment, the economy and human beings. Mr President, ärade talman! The objectives of Agenda 2030 are well aligned with the objectives of the Government Programme and it has been easy for the Government to continue its commitment to the implementation of Agenda 2030. The main and cross-cutting theme of Agenda 2030 is that no one should be left behind. The Government Programme emphasises social responsibility in such a way that we take responsibility for each other and for the common future. The Government's sustainability report has been prepared in an exceptional situation. Global coronavirus pandemic has driven societies into a serious health and economic crisis. The Government’s aim has been to prevent the spread of the virus in society, to safeguard the carrying capacity of health care and to protect people particularly at risk. At the same time, we have supported businesses, regions and people in order to minimise the damage caused by the epidemic. In recent months, economic policy has in particular focused on managing the economic impact of the corona crisis. Although the operating environment has changed, the underlying objectives of the Government Programme’s economic policy have remained the same. The goal of the government’s economic policy is to increase welfare. This means ecologically and socially sustainable economic growth, high employment and sustainable public finances. In the current situation, it is all the more important to strengthen the conditions for employment growth and to invest in knowledge, research, product development and infrastructure. A determined and coherent climate policy is a fundamental prerequisite for future economic growth and a stable business environment. The sustainability of public finances requires not only higher employment but also structural reforms. Agenda 2030 aims at sustainable development, which takes equal account of the environment, the economy and people. Social and economic development depends on the sustainable use of natural resources. Sustainable development objectives can only be achieved if global warming and biodiversity decline are stopped. Mr President! Commitment to the implementation of Agenda 2030 is also important for the government from the point of view of the international system. When the infrastructure of a multilateral rule-based system is being challenged, it is important for countries such as Finland to adhere to common agreements that support and benefit from a multilateral system. This is also why the Government considers it important that Finland makes determined progress in implementing the 2030 Agenda objectives. Finland is committed to the universal values of the UN and is working to strengthen international law, democracy and human rights. Democracy, respect for and implementation of fundamental and human rights are a prerequisite for achieving Agenda 2030 and sustainable development goals in Finland and globally. Mr President! For the first time in more than 20 years, the world’s extreme poverty is increasing, and the achievement of the SDGs is seriously threatened. In the midst of the crisis, the poorest people are particularly vulnerable. In many countries, the economic and social impact is wider and longer-term than the health crisis. As a result of the crisis, inequalities have increased and gender equality has deteriorated. Negative effects are also seen on the internal stability and security of countries, as well as the realisation of human rights and democratic development. The achievement of the 2030 Agenda targets also requires addressing the humanitarian needs of the world and addressing the underlying causes of these needs. A safe and sustainable world is also in the interests of Finns. Finland’s human rights-based foreign and security policy and its development policy are among the most important instruments of global responsibility. Mr President! The Government’s Sustainable Development Report sets out in concrete terms the actions through which the Government contributes to the achievement of each of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The report is structured around the Government Programme and the measures included in the Government Programme. Finland's efforts to achieve the objectives will be dealt with separately from a national and global perspective within each of the objectives. The report also describes the current situation in Finland in terms of sustainable development, the policy principles guiding the implementation work, the mechanisms for the organisation of national implementation work and the monitoring and evaluation of implementation. The principles guiding national sustainable development policies are long-term and dynamic, coherence and global partnership, ownership and inclusion. These same principles were already set out in the first National Agenda 2030 Implementation Plan of 2017. These principles also guide the work of the Finnish Commission for Sustainable Development. With regard to the principles of monitoring and evaluating the implementation of Agenda 2030, the Government will continue the work already launched during the previous Government term. In the report, the Government has committed itself to assessing national sustainable development policies in 2022. With this assessment, the Government wants to create the conditions for successful sustainable development work during the next parliamentary term. Mr President! During the negotiation of the UN Sustainable Development Agenda, a human rights-based and broad-based approach was important for Finland. While we are dealing with the Government's report on the implementation of Agenda 2030, it is important to remember how important it is for all actors in society to contribute to the 17 global goals. With actions that are consistent and pursue the same objectives in different sectors of society, we will achieve them most definitely. The actions of municipalities and cities, communities and organisations, businesses and individuals also have a huge impact. So thank you to all of these actors. Mr President, ärade talman! The implementation of Agenda 2030 is still ongoing. Although progress has been made in many respects, the objectives have not yet been achieved, neither globally nor in Finland. We now have less than ten years to achieve common objectives. According to international evaluation reports, Finland has achieved or is achieving the main objectives of Agenda 2030 in terms of poverty eradication, health and well-being, quality education, clean water, energy availability and cleanliness, decent work and economic growth, industry and innovation, reducing inequalities, sustainability of cities and local communities, and the functioning of institutions and the legal system. Finland’s main challenges in turn relate to the need for change in consumption and production patterns, climate action, the state of seas and water bodies and support for other countries in the implementation of Agenda 2030. Finland is committed to achieving all sustainable development objectives. This report is a plan of action to achieve these objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u3	We shall now proceed to the group speeches.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u4	Mr President! Our life and politics are strongly marked by the Koronapandem today, but now is not the time to ignore far-reaching solutions. The principles of sustainable development look beyond the corona, but at the same time responding to the acute situation is the best policy for the future. We have been talking about sustainable development for a long time, but the Marin government is taking this issue forward with determination. An ambitious goal is a society that is economically, ecologically, socially and culturally sustainable. The current government programme has been built on this objective. Despite interest, much has already been achieved, but a lot of decisions are still ahead of this government to increase the sustainability of the future. Finland needs such a bold policy programme to turn the challenges of sustainable development into opportunities and a sustainable way of life for employment. Mr President! The deterioration of the environment and climate change are a driving force for many other problems and a threat to the global viability. That is why the government's great task is to take Finland into a carbon-neutral society by 2035. The foresight here is in Finland's best interests. A green transition and investment in sustainable solutions is a great opportunity. For Finland, the green transition means sustainable growth, work and everyday well-being, while supporting the operating conditions and competitiveness of Finnish companies. Courage in these matters gives Finland the power to compete on the world market. In Finland, political consensus has historically been built through committees, for example. That is why I hope that the Green Development Agenda and the green transition will put in place policies that are constructive in terms of political consensus. A fair green transition may also require political innovation. Mr President! Education is one of our most important values and a guarantee of human freedom. Trust between people and between social actors is a prerequisite for building a socially sustainable society. In the future, Finland will do best by investing in raising the level of competence at all levels of education. At the same time, learning gaps need to be narrowed and educational equality increased. The model of continuous learning from early childhood education to further education and free education is the basis for Finland’s competitiveness and well-being. The training of any young person must not be caught for money. That is why the extension of compulsory education, if any, will support sustainable development. It is an important employment act and a future act, but it is also an act of equality. It is important for the future that we have all the potential available to us so that anyone, regardless of their starting point, can study as far as possible. Mr President! Everything must be kept in the midst of changes and challenges. Therefore, the SDGs and long-term, overgenerational and post-election thinking and activities are an important starting point, despite the coronavirus pandemic, as they form the basis for a sustainable future. Preventing poverty and exclusion is the economic and health policy of the future, and the aim must therefore be to reduce poverty. The availability of appropriate social and health services for all, despite the economic situation, is also important in a humane way, but also in a national economy. In addition to the social welfare reform, there is also a need for an overall reform of social security, which focuses on social justice and securing livelihoods in all life situations. President! Finland needs everyone to contribute to its work, which is why more and more investment is needed in the employment of people with disabilities and those who are able to work part-time. Measures to maintain well-being at work must also be taken more forcefully, as too many people are left on disability pension too early. Mr President! Without policy coherence, these good objectives will not be achieved. Sustainable development must be taken into account in all policy areas. For example, the impact assessment of draft laws does not yet take sufficient account of this issue. Policy coherence can also be promoted through phenomenon-based budgeting. In addition to this, we need a GDP indicator that complements the indicators of the well-being economy, which will enable us to better distinguish which part of economic growth increases well-being and which part of growth may even increase nausea. Mr President! The future will not come upon us — we will do it together. Today’s decisions will affect the world in which the next generations live. We cannot escape responsibility for this or pass it on to others. The Group of the Party of European Socialists stresses that social justice must be the driving force behind all developments. It is based on acceptability and trust that will help Finland and the world to be improved in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u5	Mr President! The Global Agenda for Sustainable Development, Agenda 2030, has guided Finland and other countries towards a more sustainable future since 2016. The programme aims at poverty eradication and sustainable development, which takes equal account of the environment, the economy and human beings. This was agreed between UN Member States in 2015. In order to achieve the objectives set jointly — 17 different points — there is therefore ten years left. Mr President! The report before us is the second implementation plan, which will be submitted as a report to Parliament. This programme presents the measures by which the sitting government wishes to contribute to the achievement of each of the 17 sustainable development objectives in Finland and globally. The Finnish Parliament Group wishes to pay particular attention to a couple of specific points in the report. These points concern both climate and energy policy and employment policy. Under the leadership of the current government, our energy and climate policy has been translated into an unstable and unpredictable course. Prior to this parliamentary term, the decision-making sector has had little or no stability that would have served the overall interests of our society and of our country and, at the same time, have brought over-election consistency to it. Now there is no stability and predictability at all. The Group of the Finnish People's Party continues to be very critical of the whole proposal, because we believe that it is still a disproportionate threat to both the industry and its functional capacity and the jobs involved. We cannot therefore continue to advocate achieving climate neutrality on our continent by 2050, as the European Union is trying to achieve. Nor can we, as a group, sign our government's objective of carbon neutrality by 2035. As a party, we see that the government programme must therefore be redesigned — at least in the context of climate policy. This would free up budgetary resources, for example. for SMEs to make up for budgetary losses and, above all, to rebuild the economy. Mr President! When we talk about climate policy and the Agenda for 2030 that is closely linked to it, we can never ignore agriculture and its importance for our country. The Finnish Parliament Group attaches particular importance to the fact that the agricultural and forestry sector in our country, for example, will not be further hampered by over-ambitious emission reduction targets. Of course, we Finns continue our efforts to ensure that the whole of Finland is able to live in the future as well as to pursue agriculture and agricultural entrepreneurship comprehensively. That is why Finns demand realism in climate policy. It has to be proportionate to the problem. Finland's emissions are about 1.1 per mil of global emissions. "The polluter pays" is the basic Finnish line in the home country Now the Green Left Government makes its climate policy the hardest to pay for the poor people, drivers and entrepreneurs in rural areas. [ Center : Unreasonable! ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u6	Mr President! Are things better in the future than they are today? This is a question I encounter every day, listening to people all over Finland. Are the heating costs going up? Is it forbidden to drive? The questions vary: Do I have to give up something? How much is it? Why can't someone else do it? However, concern and the earth are common. My answer is: the environment is not a gift from past generations; it is a loan from future generations. Mr President! The message we are talking about in Agenda 2030, the Agenda for Sustainable Development, is clear. We must aim for sustainable development, in which we take equal account of the environment, the economy and people. Time is running out for these objectives. The impact of climate change in the Arctic region is at least double. Hope, on the other hand, is given that change is possible. The starting points are good, as, like other Nordic countries, Finland is one of the world's leading countries in sustainable development. We have taken the idea to the world that the principles of sustainable development should be integrated into budgetary processes. This work was started when Mr Orpo was Minister of Finance. Climate change and the fight against it are always present in all the SDGs from the adequacy of clean food and water to the success of development cooperation. Drilling the wells is pointless if the soil continues to dry. Similarly, our work to strengthen the rights of women and girls in eastern Africa will be wasted if the continent becomes inviolable because of the warming climate. The challenges of this scale will only be solved through constructive cooperation. Prime Minister Eight parliamentary groups, led by Sipilä, committed themselves before the last parliamentary elections to common climate goals, which are now reflected in the Marin Government Programme. We committed ourselves to doing our part to limit the rise in the world’s average temperature to one and a half degrees. When I have listened to the government arguing over the past year, I have had to ask myself repeatedly whether the government is committed to these common climate objectives. Experts have proposed a list of the means that we decision-makers should take. After the proposals, the government parties will knock out the motions one by one. There's still confusion and confusion. Turpe became a lean and inadequate compromise. Environmentally harmful subsidies are increasing despite all promises. In the light of the debate of recent days, it seems that halving the emissions from transport is already stopping at square one. Finns deserve hope. The debate has been dominated by too much fear — either that political decision-makers are not doing enough climate action or that they are unduly changing people’s daily lives. Climate action will find a constructive middle road, and people and the environment will thank you. We can reduce emissions without hampering people’s lives. At best, reducing emissions will create new jobs and ensure the competitiveness of traditional industries. We have already been able to significantly increase the share of renewable energy in energy production. Our electricity production will soon be almost emission-free. We must therefore focus our attention on reducing emissions from heating, transport and the built environment and promoting the circular economy. Mr President! We cannot afford to forget man and man's well-being. If we forget a person, we forget our society and give a spark to popists who would rather tear than build. We have a responsibility to justify the need for change. Time and politics need more bridge builders than wall designers. If we take action now, we can make effective decisions without undermining our standard of living. We need structural reforms and incentives for everyday environmental choices. Finland deserves a tax reform for sustainable development, whereby the focus of taxation is shifted from taxation on work and entrepreneurship to taxation of consumption and harm. How much does change cost? Investment costs money, but the price is more expensive the longer we move it. The Coalition Party has repeatedly presented solutions to support sustainable growth: cuts in forms of support harmful to clean energy and the environment. Emissions reductions must be implemented in all sectors of society. Studies show that the differences between the cheapest and expensive means can be as much as a hundredfold. So the means matter. Why can't someone else do it? As pioneers, we have a responsibility and an opportunity to clear the way and create work, companies and people's well-being in our country. We multiply the contribution of our work by selling our engineering expertise for clean solutions to the world market. Knowledge can play a key role in solving the problems of local water networks or energy production. The expertise of our export industry is well-suited to international comparisons, and several industries have already made road maps. [The President knocks ] Mr President! If we do not take care of the sustainability of public finances, we will jeopardise the objectives of ecological development. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u7	Madam President! There is now a great deal of concern in the world and in Finland: concern for health, concern for livelihood, concern for the future. In this uncertainty, you can intimidate people or stir up confrontation, as the Finns of Peru are doing in each of them, and the Coalition Party is doing in at least every other speech, or you can solve problems. It's a downtown option. There is no need for more despair and insecurity. Now we need more hope and security. The policy of confrontation does not build a sustainable future for future generations. Mr President! Here and now, Finland's survival is the most important thing. At the same time, we must build a future. Sustainable development is that we keep all Finns and the whole of Finland with us. Inequality and non-participation must not be allowed to rumble. Sustainable development is that we get more jobs in this country and that we get the economy back in order. The debt must not become the burden of our children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u9	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u10	Mr President! I am an age generation for which the word “sustainable development ” brings the year 1987. At that time, the World Commission for Environment and Development, under the leadership of former Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland, published a report on Our Common Future, our Common Future. The talk about a common future and sustainable development gave rise to faith in a high school student concerned about the state of the environment. Now, more than 30 years later, the global sustainable development report shows that we are moving towards the objectives of sustainable development — but far too slowly. Global inequalities are growing and becoming increasingly intertwined with serious environmental crises. We're losing nature. We consume natural resources beyond the earth's resilience. We will increase climate debt to future generations. This cannot continue. We need to find ways of creating sustainable growth without weakening prosperity. We need new international indicators of sustainable well-being. Sustainability must be the basis for all decision-making, planning and budgeting. Mr President! The UN Global Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 will guide Finland and other countries towards a more sustainable future. Its central objective is to keep everyone in touch with the change and not to leave anyone behind. Achieving sustainable development goals in Finland and globally requires strong democracy and the realisation of human rights. Agenda 2030 aims at a world that respects human dignity, justice and non-discrimination, a world where everyone has equal opportunities to realise himself and contribute to shared prosperity. Such a world is also the goal of the Greens. At present, global corona pandemic threatens the achievement of the SDGs — and is a sign of the serious consequences of unsustainable development. Extreme poverty is increasing for the first time in over 20 years. It threatens up to 150 million people around the world. We Greens want Finland to be actively involved in halting this trend. Finland is therefore committed to improving the lives of people living in the least developed countries and those most vulnerable. It strengthens the implementation of human rights, enhances stability and strengthens global security. A safe and sustainable world is also in the interests of Finns. As part of this work, the budget for development cooperation must therefore be raised to 0.7% of gross national income. In addition to this, developing countries need to be allocated separate climate finance to combat and adapt to climate change. Mr President! The motto "think globally, act locally" is still valid. In Finland, we need to reduce our carbon footprint, which is among the largest in the world. This means changing our patterns of consumption and production and effective climate action. A sustainable recovery is now a unique opportunity for us to implement a system-level change in a socially just way. We Greens are in favour of a fair change, that is, reducing emissions, poverty and inequality at the same time. This applies both locally and globally. The EU’s recovery funds must therefore be fully used for projects contributing to sustainable development under Agenda 2030. Ladies and gentlemen, we only have ten years to achieve the 2030 Agenda objectives. Practical work is done to a large extent in cities and municipalities, companies and organisations, educational institutions and workplaces, in the everyday life of our homes. We must now resolutely support, encourage and facilitate this work of sustainable development. A trip of more than 30 years from the Brundtland Commission report to this day shows that although we have broadly agreed common sustainable development objectives, there is still work to be done to implement them. In a recent interview, the 81-year-old Gro Harlem Brundtland now calls for more ambition and commitment from political leaders. This is where we Greens want Finland to be in the vanguard.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u11	Mr President! The UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is the human plan A. It has to work, because there is no plan B. The objectives of the Agenda concern and bind us all. The Finnish welfare state has been able to achieve many social and economic development goals, building on the principles of universalism. There is still room for improvement, and the current government programme has been built on the principles of sustainable development. School drop-out is an important challenge for the government to respond to by investing in education and by extending compulsory education. Poverty among pensioners is a disgrace in our country, which has been alleviated by raising the lowest pensions. The aim is to improve equal access to social welfare and health services through social welfare reform and the health care guarantee. Mr President! The Agenda sets requirements for all the countries of the world. However, other countries are better placed to meet the challenges. A prosperous country such as Finland must, in addition to its own actions, support the sustainable development of other countries. The key instrument here is development cooperation and financing, trade policy and activities in international organisations. We bear global responsibility, and the government has increased its funding for development. However, there is still a share of 0.7 per head. In development cooperation, we need to focus in particular on those issues where Finland has a special contribution and where it can achieve effectiveness. For example, Finland’s work to improve the position of women and girls and to promote sexual health in developing countries is very important, especially at a time when populist and conservative decision-makers use women’s bodies as a stick horse in their policies. Finland’s work to promote the rights of people with disabilities has also been groundbreaking. Mr President! Without peace there is no development, so Finland's contribution to peace-keeping and reconciliation and other peace-promoting activities is also extremely valuable. Finland can also provide significant added value for the development of fair taxation. A well-functioning and fair taxation system is a precondition for the organisation of effective public services and the smoothing of income distribution also in developing countries. Growing inequality is a huge global problem and an obstacle to human development. Today’s global economy and policy have failed badly when the richest percentage holds more wealth than the rest of the world’s population combined. Finland must continue to support tax systems in developing countries and international efforts to close tax havens. The Left Alliance believes that efforts should also be made to reduce income and wealth disparities in Finland, but unfortunately important tax reforms, such as fairer taxation of dividend taxes, remain to be undertaken during this government term. Mr President! Finland’s biggest sustainability challenges are related to the environment. We live untenablely, produce too much climate emissions and waste natural resources. We have started our journey towards a carbon-neutral welfare state, but more decisions and actions are still needed both locally and nationally. Our big task in this time period is to reconcile our lives and our economy with the environment. The concept of Kate Raworth's donut economy well describes the target state: On the outside of Donits, the environment sets ecological framework conditions for the economic activities of mankind that cannot be exceeded and which must be adapted. The donuts' inner circle, on the other hand, is the social framework, the minimum requirements that the economy must meet in order to ensure a decent life for all people and the basic conditions for well-being. Economic or economic growth is not an end, but an instrument. A sustainable economy is therefore a doughnut that works between the inner circle of social requirements and the outer circle of ecological limits. Coordination must be done in such a way that people's well-being and livelihood are not jeopardised. Climate action must take into account people throughout the country, and the costs of change must be compensated, especially for low incomes. In fact, the government has taken this principle of fair transition into account, for example, when supporting households that abandon oil heating. The Left Alliance also believes that most of the EU recovery package's money must be spent to support a fair transition and create climate-resistant jobs, including by targeting support for the abandonment of peat. Economic activity needs to be more sustainable. In addition to the traditional state budgeting, emission budgeting should be developed. Business activities must be guided in a more sustainable direction by the adoption of the Corporate Responsibility Act. Carbon tariffs must be set at the EU's external borders. State ownership policy and business subsidies must guide environmental sustainability.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u12	Irade fru talman! Agenda 2030 siktar på ett klimatneutralt samhalle där milö, economist och manniskan är i balans. I detta program är dillite till rättsstate, democracy, det nordiska valfärdssamhället och jämställdheten centrala värden. Om vi hade diskaterat Agenda 2030 förra hösten hade nog tonvikten variants annorlunda sen är nu. I dag har coronaviruspandemin både global och nationalellt tags en stor del av uppmärksamheten. I dagens läge måste vi kunna medge att vi på riktigt inte vet hur continentalplattorna placerar sig då pandemic släpper sitt grepp.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u13	Mr President! Without sustainable development there is no human being and without people there is no sustainable development. Agenda 2030 is a comprehensive and comprehensive SDG covering a wide range of areas of habitat and human sustainability. There is certainly no great disagreement in this House about the objectives of the report, about the eradication of poverty and about the overall sustainable development that takes account of the environment, the economy and people. On the other hand, there may be very different views on the means of sustainable development policy. The Christian Democratic Group of the European People's Party agrees with the basic objectives of the programme, while emphasising a few points. It is clear that we have responsibility for our actions, for our footprints and for our impact in the short and long term. It has been highlighted in the report that Finland has already achieved or is achieving many of the main objectives of Agenda 2030. However, reports and statistics do not tell the whole truth. You don't want to be lulled into feeling good. Hundreds of meters of bread lines in your capital city or, for example, the state of the Baltic Sea tells another truth. Many comments on the too low level of social security in Finland say the same thing. The report does not include the voice of a Finnish person living on basic income. Corona pandemic has shown how quickly the world can change and how badly we were prepared for such a crisis. In exceptional circumstances such as the pandemic, international cooperation is becoming more important. The same is true of other cross-border challenges, such as the fight against climate change. At the same time, we must be able to create common practices, bearing in mind, as the pandemic has shown, how important the role of national states is. Mr President! The transition towards a carbon-neutral society must be taken forward, but it must be implemented with sensible measures, in harmony with other actions of society, in a fair way to treat citizens and to promote the operating conditions and competitiveness of Finnish companies. The transition must be economically sustainable and balanced. It must mean sustainable, job-creating growth and everyday well-being. By taking care of the economy of our own country, we also have the opportunity to help other countries. Finland’s human rights-based foreign and security policy and its development policy are one of the most important instruments of our global responsibility. Development cooperation must be invested in, Finland must also take responsibility in times of crisis and long-term support for fragile countries, especially vulnerable groups, to cooperate multilaterally. In this respect, the role of NGOs is particularly important. The aim is for the developing countries' own economies to provide more jobs and prosperity for their citizens. It is good to remember that properly targeted and well-functioning development cooperation is also an important way of preventing crises that can lead to uncontrolled migration. Mr President! We would also like to draw attention to those aspects that are not included in the report. Perhaps the biggest problem in Finland, the dramatic decline in birth rate, is not dealt with at all. However, Finland’s long-term declining birth rate poses a major threat to Finland’s well-being and sustainable development in Finland. The question arises as to whether the government understands the seriousness of this situation and the urgency of solving the challenge. Agenda 2030 aims to promote human rights and democracy. Broad freedom of expression, opinion and religion are fundamental pillars of democracy. However, their implementation is no longer a matter of course even for us in Finland. There are many examples of this in recent years, most recently the studies related to the demonstration of the Christian faith of the Prosecutor General. Such action runs counter to the values expressed in Agenda 2030. Without broad freedom of expression, opinion and religion there is no democracy, and without democracy we will not be able to keep up the course.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u14	Mr President, ärade talman! The Government's report contains a long list of objectives to be supported. It is easy to understand why these goals must be pursued. But it's easier said than done. We still need to decide how and when. Timing has a big meaning. There's nothing good going to come of it. The Prime Minister is ultimately responsible for the balance between the economy, health and the future. I have been concerned about the increased confrontation. The Prime Minister criticises companies for their lack of social responsibility. But what is the social responsibility of the government? The criticism of the management of the interest rate and the EU debt package is fanatically answered as if they were not even to be discussed. In the context of the EU debt package, the Prime Minister has told us about the uniqueness and precision — do you think anyone understands what that means? Europe and the EU are closed again. When more of these EU packages come, it will be interesting to see what names will then be used to distract citizens. The report says that the government debt will stabilise by the end of the decade. The Marin government has done absolutely nothing. Even the government program doesn't have to be rewritten. They don't dare rewrote the government program because the five-card pack would spread on the table. The goals are so different from the world and scattered that the present is forced to hold the knuckles white. There will be the most expensive compromise of all time. Business Now believes that the Government Programme should be rewritten and that genuine employment measures should be launched immediately. [KimmoKiljuen intermediate call] Combating climate change and carbon-neutral Finland in 2035 are important goals. Only the means are missing. Take, for example, this incomprehensible proposal by Minister Haraka on transport tax models. Working people pay more taxes, and to others the minister promises money for the account. They didn't get the Vappusata, they don't want the gas magpie, and they don't find the sorceress. [Laughter] Business Now believes that too tight a timetable should not be maintained. With the wrong regulation and taxation, we're only sawing our own leg. The roles of the state and business must be clear. The state makes it possible and creates the conditions. Companies develop technologies and products and trade when the market exists. Business growth, investment and new jobs are at the heart of well-being.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u15	Secretary Mikkonen, three minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u16	Mr President! This report follows on from Finland's long-term policy, in which governments have demonstrated their will for the systematic implementation of sustainable development policy. Carbon neutrality calls for solutions that are both ecologically and economically sustainable and socially just, as has been emphasised in many speeches. We must therefore ensure that the transition is made in an inclusive and fair way. A comprehensive 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development is therefore a key compass for achieving a carbon-neutral and socially just welfare society. Finland is at the forefront of international sustainable development comparisons alongside other Nordic countries. This is great and shows that our Nordic social model produces sustainable development solutions that benefit society as a whole. But there is no reason for us to rest on the laurels either. In fact, the government has taken a number of measures vigorously to tackle these challenges. Of course, a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions is essential to achieving the objective of carbon neutrality. For a long time, this has been a key issue, especially when it comes to the abandonment of fossil energy. The Government is making decisive progress on climate work and legislation, and many actions are already under way. For example, this government is the first to have been able to take decisions to abolish environmentally harmful subsidies. [TimoHeinonenarvous] The environmental challenges identified in the report are typically pain spots in developed and industrialized countries and must therefore also be addressed in international and EU cooperation. The EU's new growth strategy, the Green Development Agenda (Green Deal), will provide Member States with tools to promote the environment and climate objectives while ensuring economic development, employment and competitiveness in Europe.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u17	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u18	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u19	Now we're going to the first debat. I would ask those Members who wish to make a reply, to stand up and move to their own place, and with the V button, to make a request to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u20	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Thank you to the Prime Minister and other colleagues for the many good speeches. I am pleased that much has been said and raised about exports and employment. And the global markets for energy and environmental technologies are so huge that Finland will always be able to cope with the future of social solutions and whatever, as long as our companies manage to catch up with some of those huge markets in energy and environmental technologies. In the Committee on the Future, for example, we have often pointed out that Finland should invest in research, development, innovation and related business know-how, particularly at the systemic level of energy and environmental technologies. And I also hope that the Nordic countries will be able to cooperate more closely in this area, and I would suggest that, along with these national energy and environmental strategies, a joint Nordic energy and environmental strategy of this kind could also be made, which would also involve joint system-level export efforts. If you could get a few comments on these at some point from the ministers. But thank you for a good conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u21	Madam President! An unbridled population growth, especially in Africa and the Middle East, is a key challenge for mankind. Africa’s population is projected to double until the middle of the century and to quadruple by the end of the century. This development draws the carpet from all the objectives of sustainable development. It increases the burden and emissions of the environment, feeds and sustains poverty and conflicts, and is also a key root cause of migration, which is damaging and destructive for the well-being and security of Finland and Europe. All development policy should be based on the fight against population explosions and should be tied to promoting the education of girls and the role of women in the target countries. There is a need to move forward with a passive money-wrecking and well-driving policy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u22	Mr President! Thank you to the Prime Minister and other ministers for a good introduction. I believe that this report did not create great difficulties for a government whose programme was built on the principle of sustainable development. Of course, the corona pandemic has brought its own thrill to what we have read. And now that there have been such voices here that, because of this pandemic and its economic effects, we should now, as it were, loosen up a little from this fight against climate change, from moving towards a carbon-neutral society, in fact, if we now look at what is happening in the world, it is the opposite. Now, if we abandon these goals, then we will at the same time inform our companies that we will stay out of the market where a jump will take place. It's time to put some gas on this. The second one that has been shown by the corona pandemic,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u24	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u25	Mr President! Indeed, under the Sipilä Government, this Agenda 2030 was already strongly adopted, and in particular in the budget, and a separate analysis of the draft budget was introduced as a new element, focusing in particular on carbon neutrality and resource wisdom. At the time, calculations were made that the amount of environmentally harmful subsidies in the 2019 budget was 3.5 billion. In last year's budget they rose to 3.6 billion, and of course we expect this year's budget, the 21st budget, and well, well, the VM was no longer able to calculate it. I did an easy exercise on it, and environmentally harmful subsidies now amount to 3.8 billion. However, Minister Mikkonen, when you said here to Mr Sirén earlier that these are not going up, but are going down, I would like to ask now whether these environmentally harmful subsidies are actually going up or down.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u26	Madam Speaker! For the People's Party in Finland, human rights are of paramount importance. Human rights must, of course, be guaranteed for all globally, including by Finland's own contribution. However, I would point out that human rights have not been implemented everywhere, because societies are not organised everywhere like the West. The rights of people and individuals, as in Western countries, are not respected everywhere in societies. In this hysterical political climate, I am always surprised that human rights are being imposed solely on climate policy. It's absurd. The additional taxation of a Finnish employee or the weakening of the competitiveness of industry is not sustainable development; they are excuses to promote their own socialism for many politicians here. Unfortunately, this is what is being said.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u27	Mr President! More and more people in the world can go to school, but the learning outcomes of developing countries are poor. The OECD calls this a global learning crisis. The Finnish National Board of Education has estimated that the world needs some 27 million new teachers every year to maintain even the current level. The learning crisis in developing countries affects Finns, because non-existent education deepens humanitarian crises, weakens society and eventually triggers migratory flows. President! Education should be a key theme in Finland’s development cooperation. By investing in the education sector on the basis of Finland’s own strengths, we support the girls, boys, their families and societies in the world. At the same time, we support a fairer and more stable world,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u28	Mr President! Agenda 2030 is a broad perspective, as it should be, including water bodies and seas. As regards the seas, it has been noted that ‘Finland has not succeeded in reducing the load significantly in recent years. “ In fact, according to the Finnish Environment Agency's perspective, if the rains in late autumn of this year are normal, unfortunately the load on the Baltic Sea is record-breaking due to the previous year's frostless winter. Of course, instead of blaming, we need solutions that turn to the interests of both agriculture and water bodies, the circulation of nutrients above all, but the fact is that we will not see the algae leaving the sea in our lifetime if we do not get nutrients directly out of the water. This morning I was able to get to know two companies in Otaniemi that are targeting plants that would collect algae and process sugars, pigments and so on for the food industry. In particular, I would ask the government,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u29	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u30	Mr President! This Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 is the most comprehensive and powerful international document to overcome global poverty and exclusion. Sustainable development is understood both from an economic point of view and from a social and ecological point of view. In international contexts, Finland often has to present its efforts to implement this Agenda 2030 and, Mr President, it has been a pleasure to note that the Government Programme of Finland, Sanna Marin, is one of the most important documents that can be presented on how Finland contributes to sustainable development, both in relation to domestic activities and global responsibility. It starts with an extension of compulsory education, it continues with the reform of social and health care, it is geared towards a more equal income distribution policy, climate change policy, and great: development cooperation funds have also been translated once again.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u31	President! How will the 2030 targets be met in Finland? Objective 1: ‘Remove poverty in all forms. “ Bankruptcy marking and over-indebtedness of Finns have increased exponentially. Why isn't the government doing anything about it? Objective 2: ‘Abolition,contains food security,enhancesnutrition andpromoting sustainable agriculture. “ There is no significant malnutrition in Finland. On the other hand, the percentage of obesity is increasing. Public health problems are growing. How does the government intervene? Objective 3: ‘Recover a healthy life and well-being for all ages. “ Drug deaths have increased, and the Greens want to legalize drugs. Objective 4: ‘Recovery of equal,qual and quality education and the potential for lifelong learning. “ The share of young people with weak basic skills has increased. More effective and cross-sectoral support measures should be concentrated without delay in order to bring about a better transition in basic education and training skills development. Learning difficulties or other factors that undermine learning outcomes and motivation during comprehensive school
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u32	Madam President! This is how it is great to be here in the Finnish Parliament during the turmoil of US policy to discuss this programme of measures for sustainable development, based on our commitment to international agreements. Korona has not removed these major challenges for humanity, of which climate change and natural depletion are absolutely central issues in addition to global inequality. Long-term work must be done to achieve these goals. Indeed, we only have 10 years if we want to achieve these objectives of this operational programme. We must find the means by which development — the development of all mankind, but also the development of Finnish society — is sustainable ecologically, socially and economically. These objectives are at the heart of this government and action has been taken, but action is needed every day.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u33	Mr President! The Koronapandem has caused the nation states to curl up in themselves, and international solidarity has really been put to the test. That is why this report is so important, and Finland’s global responsibility is increasingly important. In the world, human rights organisations report how corona has deepened the existing human rights problems — in other words, in the world, and also here and here in Finland and the West — but the crisis has also hampered the work of human rights activists and the promotion of human rights. Oxfam, on the other hand, reported in July that the hunger caused by the corona crisis may soon kill more people than the disease itself. The main food problems are the countries where the situation is already fragile in principle. Growing inequality is a huge global problem and an obstacle to human development. It is great that the government also bears global responsibility in the midst of the corona crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u34	Madam President! One of the key objectives of Agenda 2030 is the eradication of poverty. Unfortunately, poverty continues to occur in Finland. The OECD has recommended a universal credit model for the renovation of Finland’s basic security, which would raise up to 90,000 people out of poverty. The KD presented a model of supportive basic security on this basis last season, and I would now like to ask how this is moving forward. Will the government take on structures that sustain poverty? Then in this objective 3, to ensure healthy life and well-being for all ages, in Finland, child health clinic activities have been a success story. It is easy to agree that the mortality rate for newborns and children under the age of five is very low, i.e. Finland has achieved the target, but it is not sustainable for sustainable well-being and sustainable development that one in five children in Finland still die in the womb as planned before even getting a personal security number. I'd like to ask you something.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u35	Madam President! We are used to hearing in this Chamber that a strong state economy is the best friend of the poor, and of course when we talk about sustainable development, we also add global responsibility and responsibility for future generations and the environment. Korona caught us all by surprise, and it has caused enormous damage. As we have heard today, poverty continues to increase and the success of development cooperation that has already been achieved has been reversed. Climate change continues. Mr Sarkkinen spoke very nicely about increasing development funding, and I am very pleased to support it, but at the same time I am calling for a strong state economy, and that is why I would like to hear when the government will bring in these employment measures and with what timetable we will have the opportunity to bear.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u36	Mr President! For the first time in over 20 years, with the introduction of a corona virus pandemic, extreme poverty in the world is increasing and the achievement of sustainable development objectives is seriously threatened. Improving the availability and quality of sexual and reproductive health services are the best means of combating poverty and improving the position and health of women and children. The lack of the necessary services quickly undermines the progress made in other development objectives. Corona pandemic has closed down many essential sexual and reproductive health services. This will have a huge impact on achieving the SDGs. I would like to ask: what measures will Finland take to ensure that the rights of women and girls and of vulnerable people are not jeopardised by the pandemic and, at the same time, by the achievement of the objectives of Agenda 2030?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u37	Madam President! It is good that these international objectives are being promoted and as active as possible, but I would stress here too that all the work we do within our own borders is in our hands. What some Brazil does to its rain forests or how tens of millions of hectares of forest burn in Russia is not in our sphere of influence. So let's do our own job well. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u38	Madam President! When we talk about a global agenda, you can already guess in advance that we speak beautifully, quite abstractly, and very much less concretely. I myself am old enough to remember the 1992 Rio Conference on the Environment and the first steps towards sustainable development. After all, they promised a lot of good but also a lot of haughtiness when the Western man decided to start telling us what to give up in order to save the world. Of course, what is much less talked about is a population explosion and the impact on the environment of the growing prosperity and increased consumption potential of people in developing countries. But is global justice, then, that we define what they want and how they are allowed to spend? After all, global responsibility, this concept, which the government here uses a lot, actually means that the wallet is open. It is precisely what can be thought of as the most essential aspect of its beautiful concept.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u39	Madam President! We too need to do our part in mitigating climate change. It is a pity, however, that the government is taking measures which are also taking this development in the wrong direction, for example, with regard to the purest biodiesel. Then these environmentally harmful subsidies: This year, the government will distribute EUR 3.6 billion of them. Environmentally harmful aid
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u40	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u41	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u42	Mr President! I would like to see either a little day-to-day calculation or to see what the elements are, which is why. By far the biggest increase in your calculations is due to the fact that the government has decided to reduce the electricity tax category to the EU minimum level of the 2nd, i.e. the industrial electricity tax. This is an environmental act that improves the profitability of non-combustion heating solutions in relation to fossils.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u43	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u44	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u45	Mr President! Of course, I can only say to Mr Heinonen, on behalf of the Greens, that it is certain that no climate action will catch up with the Greens, but of course I trust that when the government as a whole is committed to building the first carbon-neutral welfare state in the world, those climate measures will not be caught by any other government party either.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u46	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u47	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u48	Mr President! Ensuring affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy supplies for all plays an important role in strengthening ecological sustainability. Minister of Economic Affairs Lintilä has put forward a broad programme to speed up the move away from oil heating. The grant amount for the energy renovation would be between EUR 2500 and EUR 4000. A lease could be made for ten years with a company that installs geothermal heat. The grant would go to the company, and after ten years, you could continue with the service contract. For example, the model would allow low-income pensioners to switch to geothermal heat without high capital costs. My question to the government is: what timetable could this good proposal become concrete?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u49	At this stage, I will give two ministerial speeches, to Mr Andersson and Mr Pekonen, both for two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u50	Mr President! In the speeches of many representatives, education and its very important role in terms of sustainable development has been highlighted both here in Finland and globally. Several representatives also stressed the importance of education as one of the components of Finnish development cooperation. It has also been strengthened, this government is committed to it, and it is increasingly important in the situation where we are now globally and globally following this corona crisis. Even before the coronaris, the education ministers at international level discussed this global learning crisis very much. About half of the primary and secondary school students in the world do not learn enough basic skills in reading, counting, writing, despite the fact that many of them are in school and attend school. Now this situation is even more acute after the corona crisis, because Unesco estimates that as many as 94% of all learners in the world have been subject to school closure measures, some half of whom do not have computers or network connections at home. The main concern at the moment is that these blocking measures may lead to a situation in which some of these learners, especially many young girls, will no longer be able to return to education at all, and this is definitely a theme that we, as Finland, should also place strongly on the international stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u51	Mr President! I would like to thank Parliament for a very good debate on the Agenda 2030 report. Adequate income and high-quality social and health services are key development targets that implement sustainable development objectives. They bring prosperity and trust that everyone is cared for. We are pioneers in Finland in achieving the SDGs, and one example is the reduction of homelessness, which was discussed in New York early in the year at the UN Social Development Committee meeting. Finland has succeeded well in reducing homelessness and is striving to eliminate it completely in line with Agenda 2030. Reducing poverty and inequality are key objectives both in government decision-making and in Agenda 2030. But as several Members have already said in their speech, Finland still has a lot to do with many of its objectives, such as poverty, for example — extreme poverty does not exist in Finland, but we still have a lot to do with reducing relative poverty. The global implementation of Agenda 2030 was accompanied by concerns, particularly in view of the economic and social impact of the corona virus pandemic, and it is increasingly important to invest in the implementation of the UN Sustainable Development Goals, such as universal health coverage and adequate social protection. I would also like, President, to highlight the road map mentioned in this report on how and in what timetable Finland will achieve all the objectives of Agenda 2030. This road map would identify the Agenda 2030 targets and sub-objectives in which Finland has concrete objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u52	Madam President! Here in the Chamber, representatives of the government parties talk about global achievement, rejoice in increasing development aid, want to increase money to train Africans.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u54	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u55	Madam President! In some ways I understand that the Finns of Peru do not care about this global perspective. But I would like to ask about it from a domestic perspective. In that group speech in the centre, Mr Heikkinen well described the fact that we want to leave this country and our air cleaner than we ourselves have received, and this objective also requires action. It requires action here in the country. You also criticised and talked about Finnish agriculture. Take a look at the MTK climate map, for example. MTK is committed to these objectives and also wants to reform agriculture. And take a look at the actions of our responsible farmers, the various activities through carbon sequestration as well as, for example, crop rotation and processing methods. In other words, it is easy to hear things here and oppose government action aimed at achieving those goals, so that this air of ours and this nature of ours will be cleaner in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u56	Mr President! Yes, that criticism of the Finns is quite incredible, considering that you yourself have just opposed an increase in income support for the poorest Finns,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u57	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u58	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u59	Mr President! As the Prime Minister said in his presentation, it is important for Finland and Finland to stick to the agreement and agreements. The environmental objectives, such as the 2030 Agenda, are common, and our future is common, and we therefore have time for this decade. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen also pointed out in his group that the green economy — including a fair transition and so on — deserved such parliamentary work. As I pointed out in the group statement, 2018 was led by the previous Prime Minister to achieve the common goals of eight parliamentary parties, and I see that, in particular, the circular economy, how we are doing this decade in an encouraging, proactive, long-term climate and energy policy, would need a common policy in this Chamber. So I ask the Prime Minister: is it time again?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u60	Mr President! Koronapandemia has also shown a lack of foresight and crisis management in our society. We collect a lot of foresight information, but it is not used in decision-making. Because, in the light of the foresight information, there has been no surprise in the case of the Koronapandem. The same has also been the problem with regard to global warming. Anticipation data have been available, but it has not moved quickly enough to decision-making. Fortunately, this has now been well taken into account in the Government Programme, and hopefully it will also move to the level of legislative drafting. Since sustainable development means economic, environmental, social and cultural development, the implementation of these principles must be assessed in all legislative work. From this point of view, the impact assessment of legislation needs to be improved, and I would like to ask the government now: what kind of development projects is the government planning in this regard?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u61	Mr President! Contrary to what the title says, this is a government of untenable development. Finland is certainly not a prosperous country. If Finland were a prosperous country, Finland would not have been in debt for the whole millennium except for the craziest couple of years of Nokia bubble. We've been in debt for both the ups and downs, and we've been living over our money. The economy has not been put on a sustainable footing during good weather, and now, in times of bad weather, in crisis, only the deepening of debt remains. This balance could only be achieved through income increases or reductions in expenditure. Neither of them are offered by the government in its programs. In order for us to have sustainable development, we should get more jobs and reduce government spending in the public sector. Climate targets must not go against this. The sad fact is, not even this unsustainable economy in Finland is enough for the government, but we also fund the inability and irresponsibility of other countries along with our own, both within the EU and globally.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u62	Madam President! I am sure that it was never meant to have quizzes in the plenary session, and I will not do that in a serious matter either, but I will briefly ask three questions: Is the life expectancy of the world population, that is, the whole population, 50, 60 or 70 years at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u63	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u66	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u67	Madam President! Many good speeches have been heard in the Chamber today, and many speakers have raised the issue of how climate change will water down the good results of the development of girls' equality, which we have been working on for many years, and in the future the situation will become even more serious if we do not succeed in curbing climate change. It is unreasonable for climate change to hit those countries that are least responsible for it the hardest. After all, climate change increases school drop-out and child marriages, reduces girls’ nutrition, causes refugees and exposes girls to various forms of exploitation. Industrialized countries such as Finland must roll up their sleeves and commit themselves more strictly to limiting global warming and support those who pay a heavy price for our consumption celebrations. There is a huge potential for girls, which, if properly encouraged and supported, is an essential part of the solution to climate change, and a good question has already been raised in this Chamber today for ministers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u68	Mr President! We will address the 2030 Agenda report at the same time as we have a great deal of concern about economic recovery after the corona crisis, both in Finland and globally. Today, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection consulted experts and industry on the preparation of the Government's circular economy programme. In the circular economy, we have a huge potential for creating new work and vitality. Now it's important to get the words right. Legislation and incentives must be put in place to enable companies to develop and scale new circular economy solutions. For example, the problem may be related to whether a raw material is classified as waste or not. Recovery funds should also be used to boost the circular economy, and this is the specificity that sustains sustainable well-being both in Finland and globally. I would like to ask Minister Mikko what are the main means of promoting the circular economy at the moment.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u69	Mr President! Just as Mr Peltokangas, Peltokangas of Finland, said in his speech, Finland's emissions amount to 1.1 per mil of global emissions. I would like to ask the government: Is it meant to have the opportunity to continue living in rural areas? Is it intended that Finland will be able to engage in forestry, agriculture, food production, try and offer work to people? The economy is tough, and the interest rate is getting even worse. Finland has done a lot of important climate and environmental measures. We are at the forefront of the European countries, but that does not seem to be enough for the government. Would it not be appropriate to move on moderately from climate action and to influence and demand that other countries, both in Europe and outside Europe, be at the same level as Finland? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u70	Madam President! One of the great challenges of our time is the fight against poverty. Persistent scarcity takes away the ability to act, poverty passes. A person living in constant scarcity begins to be hostile to things that cannot be achieved. Poverty makes a person antisocial. It's less painful when you don't have to watch people spend money. Professor Juho Saari of the University of Eastern Finland speaks here of social pain, and it is born especially when people drift or are excluded from the herd. Refusing causes shame, sorrow, fear, anger, depression and despair. Constant adversities will eventually wound and break the identity. We are used to calling this phenomenon another term, that is to say, exclusion. When we talk about incentive traps, employment, unemployment, education, taxation too, we need to understand what we are actually talking about. What measures do we actually take to help people, especially the disadvantaged, and in what way do we build this country, an increasingly better and stronger welfare society? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u71	Madam President! This referral debate will indeed take place on the day of an open meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the current circular economy programme. There are many objectives to be supported in Agenda 2030. They also include urgent efforts to combat climate change and its effects. The circular economy programme is one tool for promoting carbon-neutral Finland in 2035. An important fact and realism emerged at this morning's open meeting: circular economy is not an option, it is a lifeline. We can reduce emissions without unduly hampering people’s everyday lives. Investment in green growth is a great opportunity for job creation in the future, and unfortunately some of us in this Chamber forget this. In today's debate, it should be remembered that the agenda has been adopted five years ago and its implementation will always continue for the next 10 years, i.e. by the next governments. The eradication of poverty, climate change and the economic and health policy of the future require action on the part of all-colored governments.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u72	Madam President! Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. gave a great speech on poverty, and I want to take it from there. The first objective is to eradicate poverty in all its forms and, as the Minister said, there is little extreme poverty in Finland, because our social security system is so strong. [Leena Sea interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u73	This will take place before the ministerial speeches by Mr Meri and then by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u74	Mr President! The city centre is now highly reprehensible to the Finns. They themselves stressed in their group statement that we should not turn our backs but work together at international level. On the other hand, the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection said that no other country can be affected here. Now try to think about what you think in the center — why are we shoveling money elsewhere? It's kind of funny that you're criticizing the Finns, when you don't even know what your line is. But I would return to what our chairman, Halla-aho, spoke about, namely an explosion in population growth. I can't find a word here again. Last season we talked about this, and this is not our invention, by the way. For example, Professor Lehmijoki of the University of Helsinki says,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u75	Three ministerial statements will be taken to the end of this part of the debate. First of all, Skinner, 2 minutes; Minister Vanhanen, 2 minutes; and Prime Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u76	Mr President! Finland promotes the 2030 targets in a wide range of ways, and Finland is doing it very effectively, and it receives a great deal of praise from all over the world. We are valued, we know how, and we have for a long time been investing strategically in precisely what we have been talking about here today with more than one member of the government. Sexual and reproductive health rights are our priority number one. Women's rights, girls' rights, disabled people's rights — they are at the very heart of what we have done, both in bilateral development cooperation, through non-governmental organisations and through various UN actors, in particular the UN Organisation for Gender Equality and the Population Fund. In that sense, I can give you an example from all sides, including Africa, that there are in fact over 200 million women in the world who would like to use modern contraception, but they do not have the opportunity to do so. That is the work we are doing and the work we will continue. Family planning must be at the heart of everything. Family planning must be available to all, including the poorest people, from this point of view. A Finnish clinic has been mentioned here — excellent innovation as an export product — and thanks to Finnish NGOs, operators, the Family Federation and others who have helped us to proudly present it around the world and also to the UN. In addition, the question of education was asked. Education is our absolute priority and we have increased our investment in education together with the other Nordic countries. And Mr Strand, quite rightly, we need energy solutions, the whole world needs them, and together with the Nordic countries
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u77	Minister Vanhanen, two minutes.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u78	Mr President! Agenda is a comprehensive document. Even in Rio, ecological, social and economic sustainability was co-established and mutually supportive. If one part of them is not implemented, then in time the other two will not evolve. This is a whole that has brought together many parliamentary periods in Finland, and the programme of the Marin Government in particular, we can say that the whole programme has been built on this basic philosophy in Finland as well, and implementation requires extreme long-termism both in us and in international contexts. Representative Elomaa asked me a special question: When climate change is curbed and climate change is resisted, can you live and live in the countryside afterwards? I somehow see the question as the complete opposite: Rural areas are not a problem of climate change, they are a solution. All the key elements to increase renewable energy, to improve the nutrient cycle in the circular economy — these are, after all, issues in which the countryside is itself.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u79	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u80	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u81	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u82	Prime Minister, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u83	Mr President! I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and the parliamentary groups for their contributions to the 2030 Agenda objectives. This is a common cause. Finland is committed to this, and we must work not only during this term of government, but also in future governments to ensure that, for our part, we can achieve these objectives and help others to achieve them. In my own speech, I draw attention to Objective 1, the eradication of poverty in all its forms. It is true that we still have work to do in Finland to eliminate relative poverty, and some of the actions that the government has done include, for example, an increase in basic income support due to interest rates, an extension of compulsory education, at the same time making educational materials free of charge, lowering early childhood education fees and, for example, raising the lowest pensions in the early years. These are actions that we can use to ease the situation and life of many Finns while at the same time reducing relative poverty.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u84	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u85	Now we are going to start the second part of the debate, which is to ask those Members who wish to speak to get up and from their seats using the V button to reserve the floor. — The tour is currently launched by Mäkisalo-Ropponen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u86	Mr President! Finland needs all labour input, so more needs to be invested in the employment of people with disabilities and those with partial capacity for work. Accessibility, accessibility and equality are still not realised in Finland, and this is an obstacle to the inclusion of people with disabilities and also to participation in the labour market. It is therefore important to accompany the Sustainable Development Agenda with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which obliges us to change our attitudes and our thinking and working methods so that we can get everyone equally involved in this society. I hope that the Disability Services Act, now that it is moving slowly into this Parliament, will take note of this agreement on the rights of people with disabilities now in such a way that our paradigm of dealing with people with disabilities will change completely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u87	Madam President! The Government’s goal of carbon neutrality by 35 C.E. includes goals and plans that are not shared with the public. For example, almost all detached houses in Finland, couples, terraced houses and blocks of flats should be nearly zero-energy houses by 50 C.E. As part of the goal, the number of Finnish residents should fall by nearly one fifth. The majority of existing buildings will still be in use in the year 50. How much will it cost the Finns to turn these into zero energy houses? It would also be very interesting to hear what practical policy measures are to increase the population of existing buildings to meet the objective. And it would be even more interesting to hear how these policy instruments in democracy will be decided and implemented.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u88	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u89	Mr President! Here the opposition has spoken of different conditions of development, but it is the case that the strictest framework conditions and frameworks set planetary limits. Within them, we must organise society in such a way that it is socially just. It is sustainable development. I too would like to stress these environmental objectives because, unfortunately, if the fight against the environmental crisis fails, the work done on these other sustainable development objectives will be a waste of time. It is this environmental sustainability that is also a challenge in Finland, especially the loss of biodiversity, and more climate action is needed. But, at the same time, it is very good that we have a government that has identified these pain spots and is striving to achieve sustainable development, and now this report even further strengthens this work.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u90	Mr President! As each country strives to get along on its own, the whole world becomes more sustainable and a better place to live for everyone. We should not chastise ourselves by posing as an assistant to the whole world’s green transition ceremony. Of course, the idea of maintaining and promoting the sustainable use of oceans and marine resources, for example, in accordance with Objective 14, sounds good, but on the side of this other ridiculous world hug it looks more like a rotten herring movement.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u91	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u92	Mr President! Mr Vanhanen wanted us to stop talking about environmentally harmful corporate subsidies. It's okay with us. But what measures will we then take in general to see how this Agenda 2030 is going, if there are no indicators, if we stop talking about it and if we do not know in the Chamber, are we going up or down at the moment? I would like, or I hope, Minister of Finance, to make some kind of phenomena-based tool for your ministry now, because it seems that it is going to be very difficult at the moment. How can it be so difficult that in 2020 we do not yet know whether harmful business subsidies are going up or down in Finland?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u93	Madam President! It is in itself a good objective to pursue such sustainable development both globally and nationally in all regions. However, it must be done with skill and take into account the fact that the national interest is also being fulfilled in a certain way. For example, through development cooperation, when we act, we need to be even more precise about how our resources are targeted at such measures that it achieves the objectives set and is transparent. In the opinion of the Finns Party, there is such a weakness in this goal that we do not see how we, either undetected or consciously to some extent, weaken the industrial and competitiveness of our own country when we make restrictions that are not necessarily necessary in all respects. Of course, such an example or the role of the road, the way forward is valuable, but we should still be realistic in that many countries do not even try to reach the level we are already in. In that sense, it should:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u94	Mr President! Mr Mäkelä, who has left the Chamber, asked the government to reduce public sector expenditure. What would the Finns like to reduce? Teachers, cops, maybe nurses? The Finns have taken the population explosion as their philosophy today, yet you do not offer any way to combat it. On the contrary, you say that Finland should only concern itself. Traditionally, we know that the birth rate in poor countries is precisely due to the fact that poverty and poor conditions mean that there is a high rate of infant mortality and that parents are trying to secure old age by bringing children into the world, hoping that at least one of them would live longer than they are. True Finns do not want the poorest in the world to be helped here, but neither do they,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u95	Mr President! Companies are unable to finance ever-increasing public finances; this is a fact. Where we can go to cut, where we can start to make things more efficient, it is precisely the unnecessary things that add bureaucracy that do not bring us prosperity and are essential to our inhabitants. In detail, when we go through local government finances and central government finances, both sectors, there will certainly be tasks that can be left undone. They are related to the development of the economy, they are related to climate decisions, to the hiring of climate coordinators, to the useless officials in every municipality in this country, certainly. We have a situation that is quite clear: if we deny the fact that companies are unable to maintain this current structure, then we will not get away with it. We will not have a sustainable economy, not even close to it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u96	Mr President! There has been a good debate here today. I am more surprised by the attitude of the Finns in that this global responsibility would in some way be contrary to the interests of Finns and would be absent from the Finns. Solidarity knows no limits, that's the starting point. And overcoming poverty and exclusion on a world scale or in Finland, when we are in a mutually dependent world, means that it is not absent from anyone, but that we support everyone together. You have raised the population explosion here indeed. As Mr Heikkinen has pointed out here, demographics are absolutely absolute: high mortality, especially high infant mortality, is reflected in high birth rates. If you take the population explosion seriously and see that it is a serious matter for Finns too, then the only way is to overcome global poverty, and that is what Agenda 2030 is doing, both globally — it is in the interests of Finns to overcome poverty — and equally when it is in Finland. Solidarity knows no boundaries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u97	Mr President! We Finns are the world's top caste with many indicators. For the last couple of years, I think we've been the happiest people in the world. This is one of the best countries in the world to be a mother. Yet we have one major problem, and that is intimate violence. I would like to ask the responsible minister if there are any programmes currently taking place. Of course, it requires a lot of action from each of us, but I would also like the government to do something about it. Mr Mäkisalo-Ropponen, you have made a valuable speech on the right of people with disabilities to participate in our society. I appeal to Minister Pekonen: when you are doing social welfare reform, take a good look at the expertise of the special care districts, and it is precisely the aspect of how they provide services for people with disabilities. I don't want that knowledge to go away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u98	Mr President! The 2030 Agenda report strengthens the Government’s commitment to national and international promotion of sustainable development and identifies Finland’s pain spots. As has been said here, we are talking about a generation of sustainable development that goes on for more than two years and that is now being pursued decisively by this government. And it is no more or less than that this earth will remain viable for future generations as well. Environmental issues are global, whether we like it or not. In the fight against climate change, it is important to examine the global impacts of Finnish consumption in more detail. The Finnish Environment Agency estimates that the Finnish carbon footprint would be 33 per cent higher than the current estimate if all emissions from the manufacture and transport of products consumed in Finland were taken into account. This is something we should be better able to take into account, that we actually achieve this objective of carbon neutrality in 2035.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u99	Mr President! The dramatic decline in birth rates, as I pointed out in the group statement, is perhaps one of the biggest problems in Finland’s well-being and sustainable development in the long term. And I would have liked to ask: What action is the government taking to improve the level of years of hunger at this birth rate? Many problems can accumulate. As we have seen, in Finland too, drug use and drug deaths are increasing, and of course we must invest in this, and I would have asked what action the government is taking or taking in this sector. And so is hepatitis C, which is mentioned as a problem that we would have already overcome: last year there was a path of hepatitis C treatment, and according to that, these new medicines have the opportunity not only to treat this unfortunate disease but to eliminate the infection as a whole, and it should be done in accordance with the guidelines of the path of treatment in basic health care. I'd like to ask, is there a government?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u100	Mr President! The Government Programme largely implements the 2030 Agenda objectives. In this debate, some harsh words have now been used, alleged to be the atmosphere of hysterical politics in this Chamber. I think there's only one way out of here right now. The Coalition Party has strongly criticised these environmentally harmful subsidies, but when you look at it, there are 2.5 billion such money that supports Finnish work, employment, the prerequisites for livelihoods in Finland: competitiveness, lower tax rates, tax compensation for fuels, transport subsidies and everything. It would be nice to know which of these would be ready to cut the sectional. Support Finnish industry, Finnish employment and business life. I'd like that billion-dollar cutter to see where we start.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u101	Mr President! The Coalition Party has called for these issues because, for example, the Greens promised to cut the billion before the elections. We did not make that promise, but the Greens made that promise. These objectives are both to promote sustainable industry and innovation and to ensure the sustainability of consumption and production patterns. We had a public hearing this morning in the Committee on the Environment about the economic solutions the circular economy offers to our environmental challenges, and we heard from the chairman of the circular economy steering group, Mr Reijo Karh, and numerous circular economy experts. There were also proposals for solutions that we could promote in this Chamber. I would like to point out a few: How are we, among other things, going to be able to distinguish between the role of recycled raw material and the role of waste? At what point are we no longer talking about amendments to the Waste Act, at what point can they be legislative changes to recycled raw materials? What incentives?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u102	Mr President! It is a great thing that the Coalition Party is raising business subsidies that are harmful to the environment here in the debate. After all, while we want to see good development in society, we should not support a development that is harmful. That is why this government has gone to cut subsidies that are harmful to the environment. We have cut the aid for paraffinic diesel, the compensation for emissions trading, the refund of the energy tax on industry, and now, most recently, the cut in the tax subsidy for peat. Cutting these subsidies will help to ensure that their alternatives to environmentally friendly solutions are supported. Representatives Heinonen and Talvitie have raised this issue here. However, the Coalition Party has not been able to cut any corporate subsidies in its responsibilities. Why can't you tell me what you're willing to do when you've been asked?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u103	Mr President! The Government aims to make Finland carbon neutral and to safeguard biodiversity. One factor in this objective is the increase in wind power, but what steps has the government taken to neutralize the wings of decomposing wind turbines? The life cycle of wind turbines is about 20 years, after which they are hazardous waste and cannot be disposed of without destroying nature. Some of the clean energy is thus becoming a dirty problem for the whole earth. I understand that there is currently a company in Finland that disposes of the blades of wind turbines by digging them down. The question may be asked: Does wind power as a whole represent renewable energy? So this is the neutral climate policy, that is, when you do not see the problem, it does not exist?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u104	Mr President! ‘We are all if we are to work:Faminer, not your treasures!’ ‘IlmaariKinanto1911in writing. Natural resources are one of those treasures. In line with sustainable development, they have been exploited, paid for the education of this society and the construction of a welfare society, paid for military debts. In the SDGs,point 9 ‘promoting sustainable industry and innovation’andthe outlookfortheStandardity-based Climate Change FundInOyjanorthernFinland,there are some industrialinvestments in the country:for example,the Climate FundOy isimprovingthat industry is developingsustainablelyinother parts ofbioproduct
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u105	Mr President! “We have created our present world thinking so that we can change it without changing our So said Albert Einstein. A change in thinking and doing so is needed at all levels of society and in all organisations, so that the agenda can become a reality. I would like to ask the Prime Minister — or the Minister for the Environment, who wants to answer — how we could continue to raise the awareness of society as a whole about the 2030 Agenda objectives and Finland’s implementation plans and how we could better integrate sustainable development into the strategic planning and day-to-day activities of all sectors of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u106	Mr President! Finland’s foreign and security policy is based on human rights. Its main objective is to systematically promote gender equality and the full implementation of the human rights of girls and women. It is good that Finland places particular emphasis on sexual and reproductive health and rights. However, they are currently being challenged internationally, including within the EU. Promoting gender equality and improving sexual and reproductive health and related rights are essential prerequisites for achieving the 2030 Agenda objectives. Ultimately, it is the right of every child to be born wanted in this world. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have a clear programme of influence in UN organisations, one that could contribute to the pressure of countries that oppose women's rights and sexual and reproductive health and rights to question the work done on these rights and their importance?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u107	Mr President! When we talk about climate policy and the climate plan that is closely linked to it, we can never ignore agriculture and its importance for our country either. I also attach particular importance to the fact that the agricultural and forestry sector in our country, for example, will not be further hampered by overly ambitious reductions in emissions. As a result, I would be happy to see, and I am sure many others, that the government would slightly tighten up its activities, particularly with regard to the monitoring of the EU's interests. It cannot be that other countries have better conditions for support for primary producers and also manage to reduce their contributions to the EU. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u108	Mr President! A moment ago, I asked the government what real working methods the government was using to help people out of poverty, and there was no answer. I can give it to you myself: employment. Unfortunately, in such a very challenging situation, you still do not have the means to employ. People need to be helped with employment, bread on the side, life on the side. It is the only effective, effective way to help people out of poverty. When this does not happen, we are at great risk in this situation that poverty will soon be the fate of a rather large number of people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u109	Mr President! I could answer Mrs Lundén that, in this particular negotiation, Finland followed the tradition that has been carefully calculated that, above all, Finland will benefit from the financing of agriculture and regional development, how it has now been managed. Of course, we can consider whether or not to change the system in the future, but this has been estimated over a long period of time. Another question I would like to ask the Finns: When Mr Niikko mentioned here that it is good that these things should be promoted globally as such, and accordingly Mr Peltokangas said that nothing should be promoted globally, which is your line now?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u110	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u111	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u112	Mr President! It is good that Mr Ovaska raised this issue. This is what we discussed today in the Committee on Foreign Affairs when we discussed the Government's annual report on Nordic cooperation. We were all united in the fact that we could, however, better move forward in this global engagement by creating this interactive cooperation with partner countries more closely, i.e. at a practical level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u113	Mr President! As an optimist, I think that this debate will give a stronger backrest to promote sexual and reproductive health both in Finland and in the world. Because that is what we are badly wanted for. The well-organised and well-funded conservative forces around the world are raising their heads and questioning women's rights, sexual rights and equality. One of the fruits of this development is currently sitting in the White House, and the next days and weeks will show how long. Poland, for example, has already significantly limited the right to abortion and is threatened with further blackmail. Everyone must have the right to sexual advice, contraception, maternity services and, if necessary, safe abortion. Limiting the right to abortion does not stop abortions, it just makes them more dangerous. All support, therefore, for the Poles who are strongly protesting against the proposed restrictions. It is not just a fight by Polish women for their rights,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u114	Mr President! There has been a very good debate here today, and I would particularly like to thank the representative of Estonia for raising an important issue, namely this violence against women, which is indeed one of the disgraces of Finland that we need to address. It cannot be that we are the second most violent country in the EU and an unsafe country for women to live and be. The second thing I wanted to talk about, which has been mentioned, is the poverty of families with children and poverty in general. Good speeches have also been made on this. We still have, although on many comparisons and on any measure we set a good example outwards, the fact is that we have about 120,000 children living in child poverty, a city the size of Lahti, and that is far too much. Prime Minister Marin raised the issues that have been on the agenda of this government and what has been done, and for that I would like to thank you very much. It is long-term work and sustainable development, that we take care of them,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u115	Mr President! I would like to continue how the 2030 targets are being met in Finland. Objective 7: ‘Ensure the benefit,reliable,sustainable andnew-time energy for all. “ The ever-increasing electricity transmission prices are certainly not contributing to this objective. In many regions electricity transmission prices have almost doubled over the past 10 years. Why isn't the government doing anything about it? Objective 8:‘Promoting sustainable economic growth forall, full and productive employment and regular jobs. “ Where are the government's impressive employment measures, which is what the entire government programme relies on? ‘Building sustainable infrastructure andpromoting sustainable industry and innovation. Conservation of industry in Finland is an environmental and climate action, because in Finland products are produced as cleanly as possible and respecting nature. Government enthusiasm threatens to lead to the transfer of the world's cleanest industrial production to countries where emissions are not complained about. In Finland, for example, in the Vaasa region, we have great know-how in the field, which should only be able to bring to the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u116	Mr President! However, before we start talking about the support cuts in the coalition, I would like to know because there is clearly a different view of this within the government. However, Minister Vanhanen has recently said here that subsidies that are harmful to the environment are rising due to calculations, and Minister Mikkonen has said that they are. So I do not really know whether they will rise or fall, and I would ask the Prime Minister what this sounds like now. When we talk about Agenda 2030, when we talk about sustainable development, when we talk about Finland's goal, how does this sound to you when you look at the speech you gave at the beginning?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u117	Mr President! National integrity or lack of it is a burning theme behind the pond, but also in Finland. When services and access to them, education and health services are secured throughout Finland regardless of their place of residence or wealth, sustainable development will be built for all Finns. I therefore ask the government how government policy will strengthen balanced and equal development, which will safeguard services, strengthen social and territorial justice and thus strengthen national integrity. Mr President! Even though this debate has in many respects been a tone that is not conducive to creating a sense of security for citizens, it is good for us all to remember that we Finns are lucky to live in the best country in the world, according to many indicators.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u118	Mr President! In my speeches, I have highlighted Finland's own perspective on sustainable development, but it is important to remember that the 2030 Agenda targets apply to the world as a whole. On the other hand, a safe world is in the interests of Finland and Finns, as the Prime Minister also said in his own speech, and that is why Finland must act for a better world and promote sustainable development globally. Development aid is an important element in sustainable development, but of course the nature of development cooperation can be changed, and we need to make more investments and we need to make more effective use of development resources, for example to prevent refugees and achieve climate objectives. It is important for Finland to support the education of girls in the world, for example, because it is a highly effective way of affecting the development of societies. And here we have a great deal to offer, and we can also be on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u119	Mr President! Although there has been a message from those center lines that we could not influence what is being done in other countries here in Finland, I hope that the government will promote justice. And I would like to ask Prime Minister Marin whether you are going to tackle this unfair burden sharing in the EU, where, on a country-by-country basis, emissions targets are very unfair for Finland. In no case can we say that the polluter pays. Poland, for example, uses 92% of electricity production from coal. Yet the target there is 7, Bulgaria is almost 90%, Finland is exactly 0, Finland is less than 7%, and we still have the third highest target in the EU, almost 40%. Will you, Minister Marin, address this injustice? You have raised the issue of equality, justice. Why don't we stand up for ourselves a little bit at those tables, that people have money left to live and that we don't have to pay?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u120	Let us take Mr Hoskonen and then the ministers' answers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u121	Mr President! In short, it's just... Although we are currently working on the international agenda — the global responsibility is, of course, clear — it is the easiest way to implement its global responsibility in one's own country. Of course, we work together at the UN, we work together at the EU, but if we want to manage this climate policy, then the most effective field is home. We have made tremendous progress on the forestry side. As today's seminar on the circular economy highlighted, we also have something to offer on that side. We are constantly talking about CO2 emissions, but few ministers have taken the path of having dared to defend it by rationally increasing the growth of forests. And the amount of emissions from that transport is possible by increasing the growth of the forest. It is almost free of charge, it costs nothing, it certainly produces Finnish work and Finnish raw material for the world market and serves Finns. The same applies to the riches of the fields. Finnish clean food is always competitive. You don't want to go after Swedish cheese or anything else. We have enough of our own lunches, and there's plenty to sell as long as it's time.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u122	Then answers, Minister Mikkonen. Is that enough for two minutes?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u123	President! This has been a very good debate. For example, these environmentally harmful subsidies have been raised here and, as the Minister of Finance said and as the budget book says, it would certainly be appropriate to update what is meant by these environmentally harmful subsidies. After all, the Ministry of the Environment has carried out a comprehensive study in 2013, which has considered environmentally harmful subsidies, based on the OECD definition that, while all other factors remain the same, environmentally harmful support increases the level of production or the use of natural resources and thus increases the level of waste, pollution and natural exploitation. Personally, I think that when time changes and especially when this climate issue is strongly raised, the support that sustains the fossil economy is today the one we need to get rid of, and the government has made decisions in this regard when we have abolished emissions trading. It will be visible next year, because it will still be paid for this year, but then it will not be paid for the following year, as will the refund of the energy tax on energy intensive industries, that is, this so-called energy tax cutter, and it will be phased out. But really this comparison with last year is difficult in many ways, because there is, for example, this industry's electricity tax, which will help our industry to electrify and thus move towards low carbon — but it will also show itself as environmentally harmful support, in line with this old definition. Then this circular economy came up, and that is where we have a lot of opportunities. It is a pleasure to hear that this strategy presented to the Committee on the Environment has given rise to a great deal of enthusiasm here, and that is what we need, because it is the key to how we can use natural resources more effectively and thereby ensure biodiversity and also combat the climate crisis. Then, for example, these energy subsidies and oil heating aid to households came up. These are important ways in which we can help households to live a more energy-efficient life, so that — especially if we use fossil energy — costs will also be reduced as energy efficiency can be improved. This representative, Heikkisen
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u124	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u125	Mr. Speaker! I too thank you for a good debate. Here are a few things that I would like to try to answer now. Representatives Estonian and Viljanen raised the issue of intimate partner violence and violence against women. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, for the most part, but I can say that a programme to combat violence against women has just been completed and then a programme to combat trafficking in human beings is on the way in spring 2021 and there is also a reform of the law on sexual offences, which reforms the criminal code so that rape is defined by lack of consent in accordance with the Istanbul Convention. These were a few examples, and then we are constantly increasing the funding of shelters. Then, Mr President, on this Nordic cooperation, I would like to say that it has very well emerged here that Nordic cooperation is important to Finland, and this is also appropriate for this sustainable development. Last year, the Prime Ministers adopted a new vision with three priorities: the Green North, the Competitive North and the Socially Sustainable North. These are very compatible with this sustainable development and Agenda 2030. Finally, during the Finnish Presidency next year, I can say that Finland will develop a network of expertise in the circular economy in the construction sector. Among other things, such things. — Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u126	Mr President! Thank you, too, for a good debate on my part. Agenda 2030 is at the heart of the whole international rule-based system and its development, and the importance of the UN is, of course, perhaps more important than ever, just as the success of the whole multilateral rule-based system is very important for Finland. Of course, these days in particular, we hope that the world and the great powers will be those who are ready to commit themselves to it. All in all, Agenda 2030 has achieved a great deal, and all in all, I am glad that here in Finland, too, cities are committed to this cooperation: Finnish cities are setting an example not only for each other but for the world as a whole. And it's really great that, for example, Even on Monday in Jyväskylä, Minister Lintilä and I were able to say that things are done in the right way, and it is in the interests of all of us. But, as I said, the situation is very challenging globally. We have seen for decades in the world that global problems need global solutions. No one solves these problems alone, not even Finland. And even in the sense that many scientists and great men of culture have been quoted here today, I think President Kekkonen said that Finland is not a judge of world politics but a doctor. Of course, now that you look at this moment and the future, you could see Finland and see Finland as a nurse, engineer and class teacher of world politics. Then we will be climate issues, then we will be digitalisation, then we will be at the root of the solutions that the government has wanted to talk to you about today. And now the time is ripe for a circular economy. Now the time is ripe for digitalisation, including export. I am very pleased, for example, with the global climate coalition of finance ministers, over 50 countries, and thank you also to the previous government. It's starting to show up globally now, so it's good to go from here.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u127	Mr President! I am thinking of the fact that if this Agenda 2030 were to be decided in the negotiations right now, I think that this way of thinking that we have would certainly add a strong additional effort to a different multilateral cooperation in order to overcome these challenges. On issues such as this pandemic, too, we should set at global level not only country-specific targets but significantly stronger targets for cooperation between countries on how to deal with such problems, because this single pandemic is likely to bring back very much in this implementation of Agenda 2030 in all these sectors, especially in terms of overcoming poverty and strengthening the sustainability of the economy. Representative S.H.I.E.L.D. called for and asked for employment measures. It is clear that on top of what was discussed in the autumn and what was announced by the government, there will be new employment measures, but even in the case of employment, I would in fact encourage a slightly similar approach to what is at the bottom of Agenda 2030, that it is a whole. In Finnish-type society, too, the level of employment is obviously influenced by the whole of knowledge, the development of a good investment environment, good governance, influence on the cost of production, alongside all the individual decisions we usually have in this employment debate. In other words, in order to achieve this strong overall result in employment, attention must be paid to the conditions under which economic growth in general emerges and, as part of it, employment will also increase positively.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u128	Mr President! In my opinion, Minister Skinner well described Finland's role as a global player. We have to do our part here, but we also have the opportunity to help others to do their part. We can be solutions seekers, and we must be solutions seekers in the global context, and, for example, in combating climate change, Finland has a good opportunity not only to be a pioneer but also to help others make sustainable climate solutions. There is a huge amount of expertise in Finland. The energy cluster of Vaasa has previously been mentioned here, but there is also a lot of good work done in other parts of Finland on climate solutions. I myself visited Lappeenranta on Monday to learn about Lappeenranta and Lahti University of Technology, and, for example, the work that is being done to find and produce more sustainable fuels is very impressive. So my message to this debate — and I thank the parliamentarians for this good debate that we have had together — is that Finland can really be a bigger global player than all of us, just as Minister Skinner described, and we must help others to achieve these Agenda 2030 objectives. And, for example, when it comes to climate work, Finland can be an actor that helps other countries find solutions.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u129	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u130	Let us now move on to the list of speakers on which we will be spending time until 5 p.m. — — — — First of all, Mr Turtiainen.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u131	Mr President! Agenda 2030 contains a great deal of effort to reach a better global perspective and secure the future and quality of life for mankind and thus for the planet as a whole. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] We should not chastise ourselves by posing as an assistant to the whole world’s green transition ceremony. We do not need to go further towards equality, because we have already reached the level to which we can achieve it in common sense at best. The greatest threat to our achieved equality is the utopian, imaginary and supernatural goal of equality, which is accompanied by the escalating entry of developing countries into the Western world. Like cancer, the culture of the goatherders that came with the developing world undermines our Western values, built on the basis of Christianity, including the equality that has been achieved. Mr President! We need to find leaders among us who do not run away from their responsibilities by skulking us under any boot. Finland and Finns are not for the EU Federation. That is why we must try to get rid of the European Union. Above all, we must take care of our own people and their welfare. That is why the State of Finland exists. Self-sufficiency should be our guiding principle and serve as a good example to the rest of the world. Let us focus on energy self-sufficiency and other security of supply and the preservation of our natural resources in our own hands. Let us focus on improving the position of entrepreneurs in order to get new jobs in the country. Let us stop taxing fuels and shutting down peat production for ideological reasons, because in order to live, we need to drive and make energy from the renewable resources we grow. It is intolerable that the urban minority, walking and cycling and eating tofu and even doing a dull lifestyle with the eyes of small children, has been allowed into the position of subjugating the entire political decision-making from left to right and thus harassing and disciplining the successful rally people in motor sports and hockey. Moreover, in a small period of time, the corona pandemic alone changed the world in such a way that even the long-term climate targets demanded by the Greens before the pandemic would not have led to this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you all now that during the plenary session, photography is prohibited in this Chamber. Well, you can take pictures from that gallery, then.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u133	Mr President! The objective of Agenda 2030 is in practice to make the world a perfect place. There is nothing bad about the objective itself, but it is not realistic either. The aim of the Agenda is to make massive improvements in a short period of time, and the changes are costly. The desire to achieve the objectives set must not prevent us from carefully weighing the means. Unfortunately, in the case of development aid, for example, money is also being poured into corrupt regimes and the use of terrorists, and aid does not always reach those who need it. In 21 years, Finland spends around 0.49% of its gross national income on development aid. The total budget for development cooperation under the 21st government budget is EUR 1.2 billion, which is nearly 200 million more than in 20. Agenda 2030 calls for development aid to reach 0.7% of GDP. However, in itself it does not eliminate poverty, no matter how much we increase the amount of development aid. It is a question of how they are targeted, of how it helps the parties that are making development aid work without development aid. We know that here in Parliament, too, there is still much room for improvement. Mr President! I would also like to draw one example, which is a bit difficult or, could you say, a contradiction in this development aid and Agenda 2030 approach. Objective 8 states that sustainable economic growth for all, full and productive employment and decent jobs must be promoted. Of course, it is clear that in developing countries in particular, why not also in Finland and the West, employment and economic growth must be increased in order to achieve all prosperity. However, there is such a contradiction that under this objective, for example, there should be at least 7% annual GDP growth in the least developed countries. We understand that when economic growth starts to rise in such numbers, so it also increases environmental pressures and consequently emissions. In developing countries, and also in many developed countries, there are almost no targets for controlling emissions that we have here in Finland. And according to this agenda, the growth in their GDP targets is fierce. At the same time, then, we cannot talk with clear eyes that Finland should more discipline our industrial emissions or our transport emissions, when we know, moreover, that our emissions are about a per mill of all global emissions. Even if the lights were turned off, factories would be shut down and no emissions would occur, so nothing would be achieved from the climate point of view. It has been the policy of the Finns on the ground that the polluter pays both at home and internationally. On a global scale, we should push for a tax system and an EU customs system in which products from the most polluting countries will have to pay a higher rate of duty. After all, this has been the subject of debate in the European Union for years, but it seems that decision-making is always one step behind in these matters. Mr President! Finally, I would like to mention that when we have all followed the presidential elections in the United States this morning, it has come as a surprise to someone that it did not win or win these elections, why the forecast does not come true, that it had to win by far. Some decision-makers forget that, ultimately, the voters want the best in their own country. ‘AmericaFirst’ is the most important for political decision-makers. That tip in front of you proudly is not a vice; it is a virtue. That is why we too have been chosen in the elections to promote Finland’s national interests first. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u134	Mr President! Finland is a good country. This is reflected, for example, in Finland being at the forefront of international sustainable development comparisons, or in Finland already achieving or achieving most of the main objectives of Agenda 2030. We have challenges, too. We're spending too much. Of course, Finns are a relatively small factor on a global scale, but our consumption behaviour is not insignificant. The development and deployment of new technologies will create faith in the future. However, too much cannot be counted on development, but the existing means must be implemented with determination. The abandonment of fossil fuels, for example, by switching oil heating to ground heat, is already today. However, many changes towards more sustainable consumption are a major investment. The State must be involved in the costs. Although inequality is small in Finland on a global scale, few of us have financial resources to buy an electric car or a new heating system in our home. It is also good to remember that sometimes the most sustainable development is to use up the old one. Many sustainable development measures are in a hurry, or time has run out. However, it must be possible to implement these measures fairly. The main theme of Agenda 2030 is that no one can be left behind. Extreme poverty must be eradicated while taking care of the environment. It is impossible to leave people and the economy out of the equation of sustainable development. Saving is a virtue, but sometimes life makes it worth living in vain consumption. The dream of a more economically secure future is also part of humanity. It is important for the city centre that people are allowed to choose their own place of residence and that Finland as a whole is involved in development. Mr President! Globally, we need to focus on basics: clean food, clean water and clean energy. In particular, Finnish education exports and forest expertise could play a much bigger role. Finland is well known for its high-quality education — from early childhood education to higher education. Quality education is also one of Finland's priorities for development cooperation, but it should be raised directly to the top of development cooperation. Finland has a lot to offer in strengthening the basis of education, for example by developing teacher training, education sector structures and the promotion of education exports in developing countries. Education must therefore become the driving force behind Finland’s development cooperation, so that we can better respond to the demand from Finland with its global educational countries. Education is the basis for all other developments. By investing in the education sector on the basis of Finland’s own strengths, we support the girls of the world and their families and societies. At the same time, we support a fairer and more stable world, where we Finns are better off living. Education plays a key role in the fight against poverty, but it is also important to promote economic, environmental and social sustainability. This proves our own development in the centuries and decades that have passed. President! I'm confident everything's gonna be all right. From time to time, we're making progress, and there's going to be a setback. Most of us recognize the facts and cannot escape them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u135	Mr President! When glaciers melt, the boundaries of the seasons blend, and the sixth extinction wave accelerates, sleeves must be wrapped. Climate change and the loss of nature place everything under the critical magnifying glass we know today. The sooner we accept that change is inevitable, the more certain we will be able to keep everyone involved. The cost of slowing down is very high for those who are in the most vulnerable position. Nor can the fight against and adaptation to climate change be paid for by those who are already in a difficult situation. That is why, both in Finland and globally, we need a fair change in which climate emissions and poverty are simultaneously reduced. Mr President! There are no simple solutions to complex questions. To solve the biggest problems of our time, we need cross-border cooperation and a strong commitment to common goals. It is therefore good that Finland is strongly committed to the UN and its sustainable development objectives that we are discussing today. At best, Finland can be bigger than its size in the world. We are known as an equalist, a peace negotiator and an uncompromising defender of human rights. We are trusted and called upon to support us in difficult times. Ensure that this is the case in the future. Mr President! If it were easy to combat climate change, it would certainly have been done by now. That is why we today's leaders, both in Finland and throughout the world, are required to have unprecedented readiness and courage to take action. However, it is interesting to wonder why the implementation of an ambitious climate policy or the halting of the loss of nature seem to call for courage — in reality, failure to act is a far more frightening, threatening, even catastrophic option. But many people are afraid of change. It's not nice to change your behavior. It is not easy to think for decades, and at times the whole work seems impossible. All of this is human. It is precisely for this reason that the most difficult, most despicable issues of our time require empathy, intransigence and leadership — leadership to justify why change is needed, leadership to ensure that everyone stays involved in the change, leadership to make the necessary decisions that do not at that very moment gain the greatest popularity. Finland can demonstrate this leadership. Mr President! There is also a need for leadership in the world on another theme, a few words on sexual rights and reproductive health issues, which have a huge impact on achieving the objectives of sustainable development. In addition to all its other negative effects, the ongoing corona pandemic also threatens these fundamental rights for us and, in particular, for the world. Part of it is that unsolicited and preventative services have to give way to an acute crisis. This has also been seen in Finland, where it may be difficult to get to prevention counselling, sexual education may have been missed in distance education and the services of the maternity clinic have been reduced due to corona, but in part it is also a question of using corona as a stick horse for conservative forces to dismantle sexual rights. It is estimated that coronapandemia can cause a significant global fall in the provision of essential sexual and reproductive health services. This means millions of unplanned pregnancies, millions of unsafe abortions and millions of birth complications each year. Everyone must also have the right to sexual advice, contraception, childbirth services and, if necessary, safe abortion. Mr President! The international community must strongly condemn the restrictions on sexual and reproductive rights and remind us of their importance in the present, unusual situation. Only then will we be able to achieve the important SDGs by the end of the decade.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u136	Let us take Mr Ranne again, and then this matter will be suspended.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u137	Mr President! Agenda 2030 is a terrible example of the new language of our time, where, among other things, ‘ensure’, ‘insert’, ‘tuplate’, ‘enlarge’, ‘enlarge’, ‘enlarge’, ‘Enable’, ‘advantage’, ‘encourage’, ‘encourage’, ‘encourage’, ‘encourage’ and ‘encourage’ and ‘encourage’. Calling changes fair and fair and emphasising rights is intended to mask the real consequences of government policy. There's no obligation, no restrictions, no price tag. The consequences of carbon neutrality by 2035 are far from fair and fair for ordinary Finns. Let's create a picture that there's gonna be something more and better. In reality, there will be restrictions, obligations, regulation, evasive prices and a sharp decline in living standards. Especially in young people is the assurance that time will prevent certain destruction is coming to an end. However, we cannot make choices to drop the carbon footprint of our consumption to a tenth. Even if we were content here in Finland to eat nothing but snow and drink water, it would have no effect on the earth’s climate. No wonder nausea, anxiety, and mental - health problems are increasing. The government also closes its eyes to the fact that the specialisation of work has made it possible for the population to grow today, and consumption — listen: consumption — is the mechanism by which we, as Members of Parliament, are sitting instead of crashing the turnip field over there. There is nothing wrong with the pursuit of carbon neutrality in itself, but the central problem is an absurd rush. By forcing society, businesses and households to renew a significant part of all investment goods prematurely, an incomprehensible amount of wealth, value of use and purchasing power will be destroyed. Indeed, the most striking contradiction between the declared objectives and the consequences of the policy measures envisaged concerns Agenda 2030 objective 8, which is to promote sustainable economic growth for all, full and productive employment for all and decent jobs for all. Mr President! It is unforgivable to believe that the huge decline and restrictions in the standard of living required by the objective of carbon neutrality would create economic growth and productive jobs. That is simply not possible. Agenda 2030, for example, talks about sustainable tourism that creates jobs. At the same time, the government allows tens of thousands of jobs in the sector to fall under the guise of a corona, because there is no place for flying and moving in red-green dystopia. Korona is a practical experiment, a living lab, which hopefully finally opens the eyes of Finns to see the importance of consumption in creating and maintaining jobs both in Finland and in the world. When a Finn moves from carnivorous to quinoa and avocados and recycled clothing, the Finnish work, South American food, Mexican water and the Bangladeshi mother ends with the opportunity to support her family. If Finland wants to help the rest of the world with its expertise and lead sustainable development, it will not succeed by destroying our own country and economy at the level of Venezuela or North Korea first. On the contrary, our country, our economy, our competitiveness, our well-being must be taken care of. We Finns do accept our responsibility for the environment and the future of the earth, with moderation and rationality. That is how we have dealt with the challenges before.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u138	The debate and proceedings shall be suspended. The proceedings shall be resumed at this sitting after consideration of the other items of the order of business.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u139	We shall now proceed to the 8th reading of the item which was suspended earlier in this plenary session.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u140	Värderade Talman! Indeed, this was a good debate earlier, and many good speeches by the ministers also left in mind: the Prime Minister's speech, and the ministers, Mr Skinner and Mr Blomqvist, also had excellent speeches. In fact, the red thread was Finland's role in the world and how these goals can be promoted while we can also benefit ourselves in concrete terms. And if I catch some of these goals now, which I remembered: Objective 4: ‘Regular, equal and quality education and lifelong learning opportunities’ —it was well discussed. Objective 5: ‘Achieving gender equality and strengthening women’s and girls’rights andopportunities. Then more were actually related to energy and climate: ‘Ensure the benefits,reliable,sustainable andnew-time energy for all’,‘Acts urgently against climate change and its impacts’. This is where I see – as has already been mentioned – excellent opportunities for the Finnish export industry: the technology export industry, the system level of energy and environmental solutions. It was also noted very well in a few speeches how the existing Government Programme of Prime Minister Marin has been well synchronised with these UN objectives. As chairman of the Committee on the Future, I would really just like to thank you here for a good referral debate. Let's catch it, and then we'll get back to you. There is also a very wide-ranging consultation, so everyone will be able to make a statement and talk about it, but thank you at this stage.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u141	Ärade Herr Talman! Agenda 2030 är viktig för att Finland med en klar målsättning ska gå mot att vara ett klimatneutralt läfärdssämä. Jag ser det därför som mycket positivt att statsrådet kommit med denna redogörelse om genomförande av Agenda 2030. Också på Åland bedrivs ett proaktivt sectoröverskridande utvecklings- och hållbarhetsarbete, där bakgrunden är lagtingets och landskapsregeringens gemensamma strävan om ett bärkraftigt och hållbart Åland Senast 2051. Ramverket för inriktningen av utvecklings- och hållbarhetsarbet består av fyra internationalellt använda hållbarhetsprinciper och FN:s 17 globala hållbara utvecklingsmål, alltså Agenda 2030. Irade the Talman! Också sjöfarten har förbundit sig till viktiga klimatmål genom FN:s sjöfartsorganisation Organisationen har enats om att minska utsläppen av växthusgaser från internationalell sjöfart med åtminstone 50 % till 2050 Jämfört med 2008 och strava effecter att utsläppen fasas ut så snart som möjligt. Målet ingår i en initial strategy som antags 2018 och som ska ligga till grund för fortsatt regelutveckling. Att genomföra satsningar som leder mot dessa klimatmål är dock kostsamt samtidigt som rederierna och sjöfarten dramats oerhört hårt av coronakrisens ekonomiska effekter. För att säkerstalla att rederierna har finansiella resurser för att göra behövliga investoringar behövs samhällets hjälp. Till exempel kunde detta vara något som EU-pengar från den kommande räddingsfonden kunde användas till. Finländska företag är nämligen också världsledande på marin technology, och detta skulle således kunna skapa nya innovationer och exportprodukter samtidigt som det skulle hjälpa hållbarhetsarbetet, en ren win-win alltså, och något som ledamot Strand, som representerar en region med många av de är välldsledande marina tekniska företagen, just var inne på.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u142	Mr President! After all, the 2030 Agenda targets are globally ambitious and Finland has done well in comparison. However, we could do even better to bring goals to the finish line if we want to. I believe that we could strengthen ecological sustainability even more with the strong promotion of wood construction, and there could also be more ambition towards biogas investment. The government has promoted wood construction, biogas, but I would like even more. These would be realistic eco-measures. However, major flaws can be found in the SDGs, Section 7: ‘Consecrate the benefits,reliable,sustainable andnew-time energy for all. “ This is not being done in all respects, quite the contrary, for example with regard to electricity. At present, people pay excessive transmission prices and basic electricity charges to electricity companies. Fortunately, however, there is going to be some change and I hope that this change will be appropriate. Then, section 9: ‘Building sustainableinfraa andpromoting sustainable industry and innovation. “ We could promote these actions a little more from the point of view of the state. For example, the government could join in the construction of the Paltamo KaiCell Fibers bioproduct plant. In particular, it would promote sustainable industry and strongly support the realisation of regional equality, including in terms of jobs. But this would also be a climate action, namely, it would be a pity if fibrewood were to be transported far away for further processing from Kainuu. The raw material always keeps further processing close to the raw material reserves. Mr President! It is also a terrible fact that there are still large differences between regions in Finland in terms of well-being. Western and Southern Finland are better than Eastern and Northern Finland, and the border goes quite exactly according to the peace of Nutkinasaari. We should be able to reduce these differences even more. Finnish society must be developed in a socially and regionally sustainable way. Equal and easily accessible education and well-being services throughout Finland are the foundation of well-being, they have been before and must be in the future. Regional and vitality policies must be based on strengthening the specific characteristics of each region. Mr President! This does not mean that: The cottage granny living in Kuhmo Ivantiira should have the same services as the one living in the city. That is not necessarily what the grandmother of Ivantiira is demanding, but she is content with a lower level of service, because she wants to live there in her cottage in Livantiira in a sparsely populated area. What he wants and hopes for is that he will be given a genuine chance to continue living in his own home on the basis of certain basic services, and this is already being granted by the Constitution. And when we make decisions here, we must always, always put man at the centre of politics.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u143	Mr President! The Global Agenda for Sustainable Development 2030 was agreed between UN Member States in 2015. Here in Finland we have enjoyed our excellent success in various international comparisons. We have a good country. The Government report before us lists the successes of our country, and that list is exhilaratingly long. Finland has already achieved or is achieving most of the main objectives of Agenda 2030, such as poverty eradication, health and well-being, quality education, clean water, industry and innovation. However, we have not yet achieved all our objectives and there is a lot of work to be done. We have already been able to export our knowledge and know-how abroad, but, as we have seen in the debate today, there is still a lot of scope for exporting different know-how and products. Mr President! I am very pleased that our government programme has been built in the spirit of Agenda 2030, with the aim of a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. The Government Programme is still very timely and perhaps more topical as a result of the interest rate, although its objectives and details will, of course, have to be refined and revised in the light of this changed situation. I would like to make one point about this Agenda 2030. In his presentation, the Prime Minister stated that the main and cross-cutting theme of the programme was that no one would be left behind. Our Government Programme emphasises social responsibility in such a way that we care for each other and take care of our common future. We want everyone to stay with us. It is extremely important, just as Mr Kettunen said in his speech, that there must be a person at the heart of the decision-making process. Unfortunately, our world is dominated by quite superficial and materialistic values. The importance of spiritual and spiritual values must also be discussed and promoted. Even if man has all the money, all the property, and all the power, but if he is mentally empty, he will not win anything with it. It is contradictory that even though we live in the richest time of world history economically and by our standard of living here in the north, so many people suffer from hopelessness, invisibility or emptiness or senselessness. It is good that we are upholding lasting, traditional values, such as community, caring for our fellowman and respect for one another, and building trust and democracy — that we are not only talking about the rights of the individual, but we are also prepared personally to shoulder responsibility, responsibility for ourselves and for our fellow citizens and for society as a whole. That is where we are guided by Agenda 2030 and our government's programme. They remind us of a shared responsibility and guide its implementation. They also remind us that together we can succeed. Together we will succeed, and the bottom is at least valid. That is the basis on which it is good to continue to build.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u144	Mr President! This is how it is good to say a few words of criticism about the evening, but before that, I also say, inspired by the previous speaker of course, that there is a lot of good in Finland. This country is a great country, this is the best for us Finns, and since we are here in Parliament, we opposition politicians must make the criticisms that must be made. In Finnish: a man must do what a man must do. Mr President! The words ‘carbon neutrality’ and ‘well-being society’ do not supportpart of today’s human agenda. It's a fact. The Government has not abandoned its climate objectives — it is said that, despite the time designated as a corona pandemic, which has slowed down, if not completely, the possibilities for implementing the many entries in the Government Programme. Nevertheless, this holy cow, or climate rage, in the government parties does not take it away, and it is driven by debt money and fanatically at the expense of entrepreneurs and taxpayers, undoubtedly towards a recession that the next governments will have to work and pain to repair. Agenda 2030 will not succeed, neither will the government's own programme. The best thing you can do now is to acknowledge this fact. We must now forget the climate rage until the Finnish economy has been put on such a sustainable footing that this society does not need artificial breathing with debt money on this scale. Despite the arguments of the Left and Mr Arhinmäki, debts must always be paid in one way or another. Nothing is free, not even government debt. No money comes from the doors and windows, no matter how the government is running around its agenda. The objectives of paragraph 17 of Finland in the 2030 Agenda are currently utopian. I recommend landing from the ivory towers down to their daily lives, where wages are not enough to cover the necessary cost of living, to those who still have the job — making it as difficult and expensive as possible by raising costs. There's a part of the day that wonders if you're going to throw your hands at me. Is this the government's goal?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u145	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u146	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u147	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u148	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u149	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u150	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u151	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u152	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u153	Mr President! It's really great that Finland is doing well with many sustainable development goals, and it is great that we have a government that seeks to achieve a carbon-neutral welfare society. This sustainable development report is now important and will further strengthen the Government's commitment to promoting sustainable development in Finland and internationally. At the same time, we too cannot say that we are living sustainablely. It is important that this report also identifies those pain spots in Finland’s sustainable development, and in Finland, environmental and climatic sustainability in particular is a challenge. The decline in Finland's biodiversity has not been halted, and the reduction of Finland's greenhouse gas emissions requires a lot of work and more action is needed. Last morning, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, we actually heard a clear message from experts at the circular economy seminar on how simply our consumption and production methods need to change. From a linear so-called flow-through economy we need to move to a circular economy, and in order to achieve this transition we need strong regulation, we need economic instruments and we need clear quantitative targets. This report has correctly identified our challenges to achieve environmental objectives. It is stated here that we must be better at the sustainability of the energy system, the sustainable use of forests, the protection of aquatic ecosystems and the creation of a sustainable food system. The global footprint of Finnish consumption has also been identified as one of the themes in the path 2030 assessment where we need more comprehensive policy measures. This is very good, because our own externalised emissions must also be visible, and their invisibility has at present been a challenge for our own climate reporting. Mr President! Indeed, the global coronavirus pandemic has made it more difficult to achieve these development goals and, as always, the poorest and most insecure people suffer the most. So global responsibility is urgently needed right now. As far as global responsibility is concerned, I would like to highlight a few points in particular. The first is the coherence of development policy. In other words, if we want to achieve development policy objectives globally, Finland should not prevent development policy objectives from being achieved in any area, such as trade or security policy. In other words, human rights and sustainable development must be taken into account and must be the starting point in all international politics. In addition, the objective must be to increase development cooperation funding further and to achieve this 0.7 target for Finland. Finally, it is important that climate finance should be separated from other development funding, so that climate finance does not then deprive other development cooperation. In other words, the reduction of poverty and inequality will also require all the funds that can be channelled into it, and the corona crisis will further increase this need. Finally, on this overall economic sustainability. I just want to say how critical it is that we have a fair and effective tax system, because taxes play an essential role in the distribution of income, in the financing of services, in the fight against the shadow economy and, above all, in the unity of society. This is the same here in Finland, and it also applies internationally. In other words, we want to be pioneers in sustainability, and I think that is right, but it is not only a desire for genuine sustainability, but also a need for concrete and effective measures. And that is why this report, which is our operational programme, is now improving Finland's commitment to sustainable development. There is, of course, much more to be done after that, but it is good to continue from this point of view.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u154	Ärade Herr Talman! Agenda 2030 innehåller 17 globala utvecklingsmål. Dessa mål är viktiga för att säkerstalla att vi kan tackla våra gemensamma och globala utmangar så att vi har en framtid. Därför har det variant extra viktigt att involvera ungdomar i det rai arbetet — något som statsrådet och regeringen har gjort då man redan under förra mandatperioden tilstate en grupp för de ungas Agenda 2030. Jag vill koh tacka både tidigare miliöministeren Kimmo Tiilikainen för hans engagemang för detta samt också Finlands Ungdomssamarbete Allians, som variantt pådrivande för det ox projects. Gruppen De ungas Agenda 2030 bildades våren 2017 under den nationalella kommittén för hållbar utveckling som leds av statsministern. Kommittén ansåg att det fanns ett behov av att Engagera unga i den nationalella planeringen och implementationeringen av Agenda 2030, Vilket ledde till idén att erbjuda unga som är intresserade av hållbar utveckling en plattform. De ungas agenda har två mål: att främja och delta i den nationalella planeringen och implementationeringen av Agenda 2030 och hållbar utveckling. Gruppen De ungas Agenda 2030 i Finland har bestått av 20 personer i åldern 15-28 år från olika håll i Finland och med olika bakgrund. Takorganisationen för Finlands ungdomsorganisationer, Allians, hjälpte att hit medlemmarna genom ett öpet ansökningsförfarande. Irade the Talman! Det är oerhört viktigt att vi bättre Engagerar unga i beslutsfattandet, framför allt då det gäller så arv stora och så arv viktiga frågor som alldeles särskilt mycket kommer att påverka de unga. Det arbetet kan därför också fungera som ett föredöme förmånga andra områden. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u155	The 9th item in the order of business will be presented for the sole reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on LaVM 6/2020 vp. The debate will take place after the presentation by the chairman of the committee, Mr Mere, if there is any willingness to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u156	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on Legal Affairs has dealt with a citizens' initiative which proposes that a separate law on the prohibition of female and female genital mutilation be drawn up to cover girls and women of all ages. The initiative states that, although it is currently considered to be contrary to criminal law, it cannot be considered sufficient alone. The initiative refers to Sweden, where a separate law prohibiting mutilation has been in force since 82 years. The committee has held a public hearing on this matter. In addition, the committee has consulted a large number of experts in order to obtain the widest possible picture of genital mutilation and its regulatory needs. According to a report received by the committee, it is estimated that more than 200 million girls and women have been mutilated in the world at present and that some 3 million are at risk of being mutilated. In Africa, as well as in some countries in Asia and the Middle East, it is most common to mutilate, but it is also found in other parts of the world as a result of migration. In the most radical forms of mutilation, the girls are removed from the clitoris and the pubic lips and the pubic lips are sewn together; in the mildest forms the genitals are punctured or cut. The mutilation is often carried out under very primitive and unhygienic conditions, including a knife, razor blade, scissors or a piece of glass. No painkiller or anaesthetics are usually available. There are no comprehensive and systematically collected data on the number of girls and women living in Finland who have undergone mutilation and are at risk of mutilation. According to THL estimates, around 10,000 of women and girls from traditional countries in Finland are estimated to have been mutilated. On the other hand, there are estimated to be some 650 girls at their lowest risk of mutilation, and at their highest there are over 3,000. There is no separate law in Finland prohibiting female and female genital mutilation and no specific penalty rule in the Penal Code on this. The offence is assessed on the basis of the provisions of the Criminal Code on abuse. So far, no criminal convictions have been issued in Finland for genital mutilation. Even in countries where there is separate regulation on the prohibition of genital mutilation, there are few cases, according to the committee's report. The views of experts consulted by the committee on the citizens' initiative were divided in such a way that some consider the current state of the legislation to be sufficient, while others support a separate law prohibiting genital mutilation or a separate criminalisation to be included in the penal code. Some believe that further clarification and evaluation are needed. In Finland, the tradition of drafting penalties is different from that of Sweden. In Finland, penal provisions for the most serious offences are placed in criminal law. Although the amendment proposed in the citizens' initiative cannot be implemented by the way in which it is proposed, the committee welcomes the initiative and its objectives. The current state of affairs is estimated to correspond to international obligations to criminalise the various forms of mutilation and extensive mutilation, including instigation and aiding and mutilation abroad. As I said earlier, it is difficult to get a reliable picture of the prevalence of mutilation because of the lack of systematically collected data. The general assessment is that there is no mutilation in Finland. According to the survey, at least some girls born and living in Finland have been mutilated abroad and such a threat has also occurred. The committee considers the situation to be extremely worrying. Different views have also been expressed in the committee's expert consultation on the extent to which traditional communities know that genital mutilation is punishable in Finland. The challenges facing the implementation of criminal responsibility are that the actual mutilation is usually carried out abroad and that it is difficult to obtain evidence. The committee agrees with the general view that practical preventive measures are of paramount importance in the fight against genital mutilation. Information on the criminality of mutilation should be provided immediately upon entry. It is essential that professionals address the issue and also report child protection and crime. Having assessed the citizens' initiative and the studies received as a whole, the Legal Committee has concluded that although in Finland the provisions of the Criminal Code on abuse have been considered sufficient to cover female and female genital mutilation, it is appropriate to re-evaluate the current situation, taking into account, inter alia, that there have been substantial changes in the regulatory and social situation over the years, including fundamental and human rights. Finland has also been encouraged to take further measures in international recommendations. Immigration has increased, and immigrants have also come from countries that practice mutilation. The committee refers to the report it has received, in the light of which at least some girls born and living in Finland have been sent abroad to be mutilated and such a threat has arisen. However, criminal convictions have not been handed down and cases have hardly been dealt with in criminal proceedings. There are also questions of interpretation in relation to the international dimension of criminal law. The committee therefore considers it necessary to clarify the criminality of female and female genital mutilation. This can be done by introducing a specific penal provision in the Criminal Code or by clarifying the provisions of the Criminal Code on abuse. We need to find out what the alternative is. In drafting the law, it should be noted that genital mutilation cannot be considered acceptable even for adults. The committee has also considered it appropriate to clarify the legal status of boys with regard to non-medical circumcision. According to a report received by the Committee, there is no obstacle to this, even though, in its wording, the citizens' initiative only concerns female and female genital mutilation. Non-medical circumcision of boys is a measure based on religious or cultural reasons, which removes foreskin from the boy’s penis. Non-medical circumcision of boys is carried out around the world, and it is not known that it is expressly prohibited in any country. On the other hand, in Sweden, for example, the measure is allowed under the conditions laid down in the special law. There is no such regulation in Finland. The boys' non-medical circumcision basically fills the mark of abuse. The case law of the Supreme Court has assessed the validity of the measure and criminal liability. The solutions provide guidelines for when circumcision can be considered justified and when it is not. However, the Supreme Court has held that decisions on individual cases are not comprehensively capable of managing the issues involved, but can only be weighed in a legislative procedure based on appropriate preparation. The committee notes that the physical integrity of a person is protected as a fundamental right and, according to Article 7(3) of the Constitution, personal integrity must not be interfered with without a legal basis. The committee believes that the non-medical circumcision of boys also involves regulatory needs that need to be clarified. It will also be possible to evaluate the gender-neutral writing of penal provisions. It is considered necessary to assess the current state of affairs that the conditions for allowing non-medical circumcision for boys are not laid down at the level of the law. The Committee stresses that the regulatory needs of boys with regard to non-medical circumcision must not delay the clarification of the criminality of female and female genital mutilation. The committee’s proposal for a decision: ‘The Council of State, on the basis of a citizens’initiative,requires that the Council of That proposal for a decision was unanimous in committee. On the other hand, the report contains two objections to boys' non-medical circumcision. — Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u157	Thank you, and now I ask those representatives who want to have a debate on this issue to stand up and press the V button.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u158	Mr President! Although genital mutilation is already punishable in Finland, indeed, as the chairman of the committee said, we in the Committee on Legal Affairs concluded that it is necessary to clarify the criminality of female and female genital mutilation by means of legislative amendments. This new penal provision would make it easier to take into account the specific features of female genital mutilation, since the current penal provisions do not necessarily fully cover the violation of sexual integrity and self-determination contained in the act. A specific penalty provision could also facilitate the application and interpretation of the law. However, it should be borne in mind that legislative measures alone are not enough to prevent female genital mutilation. Other effective and effective practical measures in health care, early childhood education, schools, migration processes and integration will also be needed in the future. These are very important.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u159	Mr President! It was, of course, wonderful to work in this committee so that we finally got this girl thing brought here so that there is a clear will in this Chamber to punish this mutilation of girls separately and more precisely. We have been talking about this since the '90s, and I think, in this Chamber too, but now we can finally move forward with this. But it is a real shame that the boys were not included as a second statement in this committee report, because just as much ritual surgery for boys is an insult to the integrity of the child, and then we come to this equality. In our opinion, children, all children, deserve to be not touched in any way, on any pretext, for that is assault,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u160	Congressman Sjöblom. — You have asked to speak.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u161	Mr President! We must do everything we can to eradicate this shocking form of violence so that no one has to live under the threat of mutilation. During the committee's deliberations, it became clear how brutal violence and also the difficult issue are at stake, as was also evident from the presentation by the chairman of the committee. I think we have reached a very good proposal for a decision in committee in order to make the mutilation more clearly punishable. However, we must be honest and say that legislation alone does not resolve this issue, but we also need significant efforts to prevent it, as the committee has also said in this report, because once the mutilation has taken place, our society will be behind schedule.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u162	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the committee for its excellent work. A very large number of experts were consulted and this citizens' initiative was dealt with and, perhaps you can say, a little exceptionally, through the fact that the committee is so strongly in agreement with this. As many citizens' initiatives here in the House are used to being overthrown, we believe that this issue is so important that it needs to be addressed. Above all, this sends a strong message about Finland's condemnation of this repulsive practice. In addition to legislation, there is, of course, a need for other effective and effective practical measures, for support for child protection and also for adequate resources to combat mutilation. It is certainly also the case that those who commit mutilation do not necessarily understand all the harm and that it is not even considered as a form of abuse in culture, and that is what we must address, do everything we can to ensure that the welfare and future of girls and women can be better maintained and that in Finland this is the case.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u163	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors and supporters of this citizens' initiative for putting an important issue at the heart of the social debate. This citizens' initiative has managed to break the silence around this issue. Female and female genital mutilation is a violent and outrageous measure that fundamentally violates the right to one’s own body and integrity. These rights belong to everyone. Citizens' initiatives have the power to change. Indeed, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did agree with the idea of a clearer ban on female genital mutilation in the Criminal Code. It is already punishable under the Criminal Code, but on the basis of the consultations, we felt that there was a need to make the offence and the sentence even clearer. However, as has been said here, it is not enough simply to correct the points. Work must be done to prevent mutilation and also to help victims in social and health services, schools and organisations. It is up to our decision-makers to ensure that there is sufficient competence and sufficient resources for this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u164	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the authors of this initiative for bringing this matter to the House and for the general debate. This has also been widely reported in society as a whole. Female and female genital mutilation is already a serious and punishable offence in our law. However, it has become clear that there have been some ambiguities in understanding how serious the crime is and how our criminal law is dealing with it, and that is why, through extensive consultation with the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have come to the very clear conclusion that this legal situation should be clarified and that it should still be done during this parliamentary term. I hope that once this has happened, so will awareness in the health care sector of the obligation to tell and talk about this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u165	Mr President! It is true that mutilation is already punishable in Finland, as it fulfils the criteria for abuse. Nevertheless, it is important that this issue should be reviewed, inter alia, in the light of the social changes that have emerged over the years. Punishment is an opportunity to clarify its current situation in Finnish criminal law. In addition, other effective practical measures are needed in different administrative sectors, such as health care, early childhood education, schools and the migration process and integration. Health education plays an important role in prevention, and it is important that girls and women of immigrant origin in particular are taught about their rights to protect their own bodies and the disadvantages of mutilation. There is never any medical justification for female and female genital mutilation. There is no justification for this brutal act. The mutilation of girls is a life-threatening violation of human rights. Mutilation is an irreversible procedure that causes painful pain and fatal infections.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u166	Mr President! I don't want you to talk about advertising. It is great that we are now moving forward with this citizens' initiative and that we are going to be able to separate the criminal code from this mutilation of girls. But, in reality, the much bigger problem is that the legislation already in place in Finland in this respect has not been complied with. We have been afraid of racism in this country for far too long, and we have been talking about this for a long time. Cultural sensitivity must be thrown into the trash, and in health clinics, in terkkarists. [JouniOvarian Interpreter—The President votes ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u167	Mr President! I believe that the initiativers have done a good and important job, as has the Committee on Legal Affairs in its thorough report, and I can agree with the good conclusion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. On the other hand, I personally regret the fact that, on the basis of some kind of sexual neutrality and misunderstood equality thinking, the Committee on Legal Affairs has also dealt with the circumcision of boys and, in this respect, the two issues have been treated in the same way. I regret this because I think it is two completely different things. Among other things, differences are found in the fact that boys are circumcised around the world, including in Finland, on medical grounds — the mutilation of girls’ genital organs is nowhere done on medical grounds. These boys’ circumcisions do no harm or harm to them, girls’ mutilations do much harm and harm to these girls and women.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u168	Mr President! I would like to thank the authors and colleagues in the Committee on Legal Affairs for their very thorough work. We have dealt more specifically with the citizens' initiative to ban female genital mutilation in Finnish legislation, and we note in the report that it is not enough simply to refine criminal law. We need support and resources for the fight against mutilation. There are many organisations and voluntary health professionals in Finland who are already doing this work. We also need sufficient resources to implement the action plan against mutilation. It can't just be voluntary. The report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has dealt extensively with the boys. As representatives of Werning and Zyskowicz said, there is never a medical basis for girls to be mutilated, unlike in the case of boys. Circumcision of boys is a surgical procedure for which there are good treatment practices.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u169	Mr President! It is great that today's citizens' initiative will continue the important debate on the fight against mutilation, which has been going on in Finland for a very long time. I also think it is important to value the work that has been done on this in Finland. This is not new. The resources for this work have been highlighted in an important way here, and it is great that we, across party boundaries, are in favour of the fact that this work against mutilation also needs significant resources. It is very important that work against mutilation should be on an equal footing, no matter what the municipality concerned. I am also pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs has come to a unanimous report.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u170	Mr President! I too would like to thank these citizens' initiative makers. It was a very important initiative, and this is a very good example of how important it is that we have different channels of influence in civil society and that the citizens' initiative has shown its strength again. As has been said many times here, especially in the mouth of the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have looked very closely at this initiative and we have dealt with it for over a year. We have heard a number of experts, and I can say that this report has been carefully considered. Every word has been carefully considered, every spot has been carefully considered. In this respect, we propose that ‘the Council of State, on the basis of a citizens’initiative, should take the utmost measures to prevent female We are also dealing with boys in this report, so I can say that boys have not been forgotten, but the will of the Committee on Legal Affairs was that we should now go ahead with this citizens' initiative and deal with the issue of girls first.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u171	Mr President! First of all, we must thank Parliament for adopting the citizens' initiative as a form of direct democracy in Finland ten years ago. This time it will show its very best, that is, the citizens' initiative has been taken up on a valuable subject and that Parliament has dealt seriously with this issue within the framework of the Legal Committee, and right now there has been a debate on this genital mutilation of women and girls. This is a very serious and serious act of violence, a violation of human rights, and it is a violation of sexual integrity and self-determination. Now that the legislative committee we are discussing is not fully in agreement with the citizens' initiative to make it a separate law, but we are making sufficient additions to the criminal code now, that this situation becomes very clear. Several speeches have highlighted what is important that it is not only a question of legislation and strict criteria, of impunity on the side, but also of integration, early childhood education and the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u172	Mr President! Of course, you can and must be pleased that some progress is being made, which is reflected in this very important citizens' initiative, but then again: will progress be made? In Sweden, the corresponding separate law has been in force for decades. There are just a few convictions, and all the problems of honour-culture forced marriages and mutilation are very present in this country of past equality. A woman’s position in these cultures is often harsh — not even in her own genitalia. The mutilation of girls dealt with in the citizens' initiative relates only to immigration from certain countries. The only way to get rid of it or of the other problems of these countries and cultures here is to stop immigration from those countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u173	Mr President! Female genital mutilation is a brutal crime and a violation of human rights. We are the last Nordic country that has not banned mutilation in a separate law. I strongly support the proposal by the Committee on Legal Affairs that the government bring before us during the parliamentary term a proposal for a change in criminal law. One girl mutilated is too much. There is also a need for preventive action in the fight against mutilation. Cooperation and dialogue between communities, professionals and public authorities with an immigrant background must be ensured. Professionals need additional training to find, identify and help girls and women at risk of mutilation, and there is a real need for resources to do this. I propose that we adopt together the proposal of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and take a step forward towards a world in which every girl and woman's right to decide on their own body and future is realised. I would like to thank the citizens' initiative, the supporters, the chairman of the committee and the committee as a whole for their excellent work. This is a day of joy for us to move forward on this issue when we vote in favour of this motion together.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u174	Ärade talman, Mr President! The RKP and the Swedish Parliament Group support the report by the Legal Committee. Female and female genital mutilation is a punishable act, and the committee has explicitly stated this and called for further clarification. Work is now being carried out under the leadership of the Minister of Justice, Mr Henriksson, in order to clarify the legislation and to make it unambiguously illegal for girls to mutilate their genitals. The goal is definitely not to circumcise any girls or women living in Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u175	Mr President! Now we must remember that we are dealing with the citizens' initiative, and this citizens' initiative is specifically about female genital mutilation, and that is why we made a statement in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights on this very issue. But there is also a number of pages in the report on boys' non-medical circumcision, and there in the committee's report we said that regulatory needs are also involved and need to be clarified and assessed in greater detail. Direct quote: ‘It has been justified and necessary to assess the current state of play that the conditions for authorising In other words, the committee wants these to be clarified as well, but it was also not intended that this situation for boys, which is perhaps a little more complicated, should now delay this clarification of girls' affairs. So let's get the girls' business in order first, and then we'll figure this out. In other words, if it is claimed that no position has been taken on the situation of the boys, that claim is indeed incorrect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u176	Mr President! Indeed, with regard to girls, problems have been found in talking and statistics, and this cultural sensitivity is reflected in the fact that we really had such great throws in the fact that who is at risk of mutilation and who may have been mutilated, and I find this really alarming that we do not know about things like this. But for Mrs Zyskowicz, I must now defend the Legal Committee, because when criminal law is essentially gender-neutral, it would have been rather unusual for me not to have dealt with both sexes, and this was very clear in committee, and that was what we were dealing with. You said this wouldn't hurt any boy. We must now distinguish between medical and non-medical ritual surgery and medical surgery. Medical surgery is performed in a hospital and is a normal procedure, but have you, for example, read this statement of the Finnish Children’s Surgery Association? It is said here that ‘a non-circumcision and painful measure may cause seriouscomplications’. You said here that it wouldn't hurt. Are you familiar with him?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u177	Mr President! I regret the parallel between the circumcision of boys and this brutal mutilation, which is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u178	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u179	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u180	Mr President! Here a spokesman claimed that the boys' ritual mutilation would not harm the boys. That is simply not true.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u181	Mr President! First of all, warm thanks to the citizens' initiative makers. Genital mutilation against girls and women is a very brutal act of violence, and it is worth clarifying, in the Criminal Code, the criminal offence of this brutal act, and it is really great that a record has come in here that this should be done during this parliamentary term. There is a need for support for the many girls and women for whom such a measure has been taken, and above all, of course, a great deal of preventive action is needed, the resources to ensure that no one is subjected to any further mutilation in this country. On the other hand, I am very surprised that this has been likened to the circumcision of boys, which in no way is maiming, because both the background, the measures and the effects are spoken of in a completely different size — both in background, the measures and the effects. And then I would like to remind you that the citizens' initiative has only spoken about the mutilation of girls, and here the question arises, how have we been able to deal with something so completely?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u182	Mr President! The Committee on Legal Affairs has taken the view that female genital mutilation must be made more explicit in Finland. I was allowed to take part in leaving this citizens' initiative, and it is important that Parliament supports it. Together with Mr Sarkomaa, we have also proposed separate criminalisation of mutilation and more effective prevention through our legislative initiatives. Our aim has been to speed up the implementation of the will of the citizens' initiative and to make the necessary changes concrete. Now it is up to the Marin government to bring to Parliament proposals clarifying the criminality of mutilation without delay. These legislative initiatives, which we have previously tabled, are a quick way of implementing the change required by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Our proposals are freely available to the government. What matters now is that we protect the girls.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u183	Mr President! Indeed, female and female genital mutilation is serious violence, and it is about defending human rights, self-determination and also women's and girls' own sexuality. The citizens' initiative has indeed raised this important issue now, thank you for that, and the Committee on Legal Affairs has been thorough in its work. I believe that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has taken good steps to ensure that this is now more clearly prohibited by the Criminal Code. Indeed, as has been said here, it is not enough alone, but it is also necessary to ensure that resources are made available for the fight against mutilation. It is good to remind you that we have already agreed on this in the Government Programme. Well, I personally agree that there are regulatory needs in the circumcision of boys, but it has been well pointed out here that these things are not of a common dimension, and that is why it is also important to:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u184	Mr President! First of all, we must thank the citizens' initiative makers for bringing this citizens' initiative to the debate in Parliament. As is clear from this debate, this is a very important and noteworthy issue that we are discussing. It is extremely unfortunate that in the world as many as 100 million girls are mutilated on an annual basis. In order to reduce this mutilation, such a special law has already been adopted in 59 countries, according to the report of this proposal, and it is good in that sense that Finland too is taking a step in the direction that this is clearly enshrined in the law. But as far as the debate is concerned, that this mutilation is compared to the circumcision of boys, I agree with Mrs Zyskowicz that these are not things of common sense: these are different than night and day. If we begin to co-ordinate these things, it may be by accident that we will reduce the number of girls affected by them.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u185	Mr President! Today's debate is about a very brutal form of violence that violates the right to immunity, which is a violation of human rights. When Finland is committed to international human rights and also to the UN’s sustainable development objectives, it is quite clear — and I am very pleased that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens’ Rights unanimously states — that this legislation requires clarification. The citizens' initiative and the unanimous report by the Committee on Legal Affairs send out very clear signals to us all: firstly, that the measures which satisfy the characteristics of aggravated abuse must be prohibited, must be punishable, and secondly, that the prohibition of mutilation can serve as a tool for health professionals and, more generally, for multi-professional cooperation and, in particular, for prevention purposes. We must continue to change attitudes, but this is a step forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u186	Mr President! For the Greens and for me personally, it has been important that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights also deals comprehensively with this situation of boys with their own sensitivity. These public claims that the boys have been ignored in the discussion of the citizens' initiative are therefore simply incorrect.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u187	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u188	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u189	Mr President! Female and female genital mutilation is an oppressive, barbaric tradition, a crime that traumatizes physically and mentally and seriously violates the right to physical integrity. I would also like to thank the authors and signatories of the citizens' initiative. Indeed, Finland is the only Nordic country that has not singled out female genital mutilation. Unlike Finland, in other Nordic countries, cases of mutilation have been handed down. The unanimous report by the Committee on Legal Affairs is largely commendable. In particular, I would like to point out that this separate criminalisation can send out a stronger signal than is currently the case, that mutilation is prohibited, punishable. Thus, the separatecrimination of female genital mutilation expresses a judgmental position and highlights the reprehensibility of the act. The prohibition of mutilation must also be monitored more effectively and criminal liability must be implemented more effectively. Resources have been called for here, and I am still calling for a change of attitude and an end to shushing.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u190	Mr President! To the extent that the report starts from talking about the conditions for authorisation for boys, which were mentioned here, not about banning it. But I would like to point out that Parliament always has the right, as the report says, to extend its views if this is closely related to the issue under discussion, as we well know here. Then I would like to point out that in the case of boys, these are not done in public health care, where they certainly do not belong as ritual measures, but they are not done very much at private medical centres either. These are done at home and in places that are not health centers, and when we do not have regulation, they are done with inadequate anesthetics, and it is painful for the child. And I must say, if I slap a boy, is it somehow more acceptable than I slap a girl,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u191	I did, and the time is up. — Let us take Mr Ovaska and then move on to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u192	Thank you, Mr President. This debate shows exactly what the majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs feared. In other words, the debate here too has turned to something that is not wanted, because this citizens' initiative is asking just about something else, namely the ban on female genital mutilation. And now we want to put all the emphasis on it and make sure that we are able to intervene in this repulsive activity. That is why we wanted to expand and consult on the boys too, so that we could then give instructions to the government on how the government could act and sort things out in the future. But now the most important thing is this improvement in the position of girls and women, and that is what the majority of the committee wants to address.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u193	And now to the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u194	Mr President! Now all of us elected here in Parliament have the opportunity to make history for the rights of children. Finland can become the first country in the world to recognise every child’s right to the integrity of its own body. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we unanimously adopted a citizens' initiative to ban female genital mutilation. But unlike the name of the citizens' initiative, female genital mutilation is already prohibited by law, but not for boys. Now the ban on female mutilation will be more clearly recorded in criminal law, but the situation for boys will remain the same. The ritual mutilation of boys may continue, i.e. non-medical circumcision may continue to be performed if you only appeal to tradition. Fortunately, however, you cannot appeal to tradition if you want to discipline a child. "Who saves, from his anger;but who loves him,the tail is disciplined,"says the Bible. And that is what this Lutheran nation has observed until the physical discipline of children was outlawed by law in 1983, regardless of what had been taught in the name of religion. The child’s right to physical integrity was passed, and very good. It is inconceivable to think that already in 1996 there was a ban on cutting off the tail of dogs, but the foreskin of the boy's genitals is still shortening or cutting out completely in 2020. Mr President! The Medical Association does not favour non-medical circumcision, but has taken a strong stand against it. This is because these ritual mutilations cause complications, infections, scarring, reduced sensitivity to sex, and children die each year of these ritual mutilations, no matter how hygienic they are. We Finns in the Committee on Legal Affairs proposed that not only girls but also boys should be included in the registration of the penal code on the prohibition of mutilation. However, the Legal Committee decided to drive into the wall and left the rights of the boys in good shape for the future. But you can find out what you're leaving behind. Since the boys were not allowed to be included, the criminal code is now only proposing the recognition of the immunity of the other sex in the law, and this will fall down in the Constitutional Committee in due course into the equality clause, and we will have to return to the starting point. In this way, I am also delaying the strengthening of the ban on female mutilation when the preparation of the ban on mutilation has to be reopened on the basis of gender neutral writing. From the point of view of children, the current situation is unequal because of the condemnation of mutilation in the face of assault offences, which are gender-neutral legislation but which is interpreted by the Supreme Court as exempting the perpetrators from liability in the case of ritual mutilation. Now that we are going to introduce mutilation as our own word in criminal law, we cannot limit it to girls' children, because otherwise the proposal will run into the Constitution, because boys will also be mutilated. This Friday we all have the opportunity to vote for girls or for girls and boys. I will make a proposal for a decision in accordance with protest 2. The steak of this objection is, in fact, that both sexes, in other words all children, will be separately criminalised in criminal law. There is also currently a citizens' initiative to ban male genital mutilation, as the Committee on Legal Affairs was unable to include it in its report because of political disagreements and has already collected some 10,000 signatures. At the latest at that stage, Parliament will certainly have to deal with this issue and every Member of Parliament will have to take a stand with the citizens' initiative. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u195	Mr President! First of all, the most important message: female genital mutilation is always about brutal violence and flagrant human rights violations. This mutilation must be seen as a form of violence against women. It is great that the citizens' initiative we are debating today will continue the important debate on the fight against mutilation. There is a broad consensus in Finnish society on the importance of measures to combat mutilation. It is important that this agreement is also reflected equally in the resourcing of anti-violence work. It is also very important that the message of the citizens' initiative has been sought with broad consensus and across party boundaries. It is essential that, on the basis of expert opinions, the committee's report stresses the desire to clarify the criminal law in terms of mutilation, and the preparation of this is now required of the Government so that the changes come before Parliament during this parliamentary term. Mutilation is already punishable in Finland, as the act is assessed as a serious abuse under the Criminal Code. Some experts saw that separate criminalisation is not necessary but should rather focus on knowledge and identification. However, according to the Legal Affairs Committee, it is appropriate to review the current situation and clarify the need. The following is particularly important: in the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, it is important to take account of the fact that the provisions clarifying the matter should be included in the criminal law rather than a separate law for the purposes of the citizens' initiative, because the provisions on penalties for the most serious offences, i.e. the penal provisions threatened by imprisonment, are placed in the criminal code in Finland. It is possible to clarify the criminality of female and female genital mutilation by introducing a specific penal provision in criminal law, but other alternatives to criminal law are also justified. In addition to clarifying the legislation, it is of paramount importance that the efforts to combat mutilation continue to be provided with the resources it needs. This has already been taken into account in the Government Programme. For years, many NGOs and public authorities have been doing a great deal of valuable work on the subject. It is important to further deepen the expertise of professionals and authorities through training. The instructions of the authorities must also be up-to-date in every municipality. The main focus of the work must be that the human rights and well-being of girls and girls at risk of mutilation take precedence. This also calls for an ethical and sensitive perspective to be taken into account. It is worth noting that the anti-mutilation agency can also create a disadvantage for the self-determination of girls and women if the work is not always based on a respectful and dialogue-oriented approach. No girl and woman is actually helped by the sensational and violent handling of the phenomenon, but the most essential part of the work against mutilation is to achieve a respectful, confidential relationship. Mr President! The circumcision of boys is also being addressed at the moment, as is the case today in this Chamber, even though female genital mutilation is justified as brutal violence and as a difficult international phenomenon, also as a separate issue. It is a great pity that some have claimed that the Law Committee has ignored the circumcision of the boys. That is not true. Although the citizens' initiative concerned only girls, the committee also decided in its report to assess the circumcision of boys. The majority of the committee considered that it was also necessary to regulate and clarify the non-medical circumcision of boys, but that these regulatory needs should not delay the clarification of the criminality of female and female genital mutilation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u196	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u197	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u198	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u199	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u200	Mr President! I would like to begin by thanking once again the authors of the citizens' initiative and all those who worked to ensure that this extremely serious and important issue is before us today. You have raised this form of silent violence to the debate. We started working on this citizens' initiative in the Committee on Legal Affairs over a year ago and during this time we had a very comprehensive consultation with experts on the subject. The views of the experts further strengthened the perception of how shocking this issue is. At the same time, the view that there is no simple solution to this issue was also confirmed. Every mutilation is too much, and it is a tragedy for these girls and women that we cannot accept. Public authorities and society must protect children. That is why we need to look for solutions to eradicate this phenomenon. If we adopt the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on Friday, it means that the government must take measures as soon as possible to make the mutilation of girls and women's genitals more explicit in the Criminal Code. Mr President! However, realistic must be and remember that legislation alone does not, of course, solve the problem alone, no matter how clarification is carried out. After all, mutilation is now punishable as an assault offence, and even in countries that have carried out separate criminalisation, there have been hardly any mutilation convictions. One major problem is that these cases have not received the necessary evidence before the courts, when the actual mutilation is often carried out abroad. It is also a matter of crimes that the police cannot reveal by their own actions, but of reports made by other authorities. Although legislation alone is not able to solve this problem, it does not mean that nothing needs to be done, but in addition to legislation we need a lot of practical measures that will enable the various authorities and organisations to tackle and detect these crimes more effectively. These are needed in areas such as schools, clinics, child protection and integration. Preventive action is extremely important in this crime, and it needs to be strengthened further, because once the mutilation has taken place, our society will be too late to help. It is also important that, in all these places I have mentioned above, there will certainly be enough staff to identify these cases and take them forward as required by the obligation to report. During the committee's deliberations, we also dealt with boys' non-medical circumcisions. The current legal situation for boys is largely based on the rulings of the Supreme Court in individual cases, which do not fully manage the issues of non-medical circumcision of boys, which makes it necessary to assess more closely the regulatory needs of boys in relation to non-medical circumcision, which the committee also made clear in its own report. Gender-neutral writing is the main rule in our criminal legislation, but it is not an absolute requirement, according to experts consulted by the committee, but when there are specific and acceptable reasons, it is possible to derogate from this without violating the prohibition of discrimination in the Constitution. I think it is justified that we should deal with the issue of boys as a separate matter so that it does not actually delay the progress of the objectives of the citizens' initiative, because the issue of boys is more complex in criminal law, and this was also the position of the majority of the committee. In committee, we did not vote on whether or not non-medical circumcision of boys should be criminalised, but whether the matter of boys should now be dealt with in the same context as this citizens' initiative for girls and women. It is quite clear to me that fundamental and human rights belong to all children and every human being deserves the same protection before the law, regardless of gender. I welcome and support the committee's proposal for a decision to make the mutilation of girls and women more clearly punishable by criminal law. I hope, therefore, that as many people as possible will see the same thing in this Chamber and that we will receive a strong message in the vote on Friday from this great Chamber. It is a truly shocking form of violence in which no one in Finland should have to live, and that is why everything must be done. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u201	Madam President! The citizens' initiative to ban female genital mutilation is important and absolutely welcome. There are an estimated 100 to 400 million girls and women in the world who have been mutilated. The measure is already expressly prohibited in 59 countries. Finland has been one of the few EU Member States where female mutilation is not prohibited by a separate law. It is a violent rite of subjugation that leaves permanent physical and psychological disadvantages. I agree with the opinion of the committee that Finland should send a clear signal that we do not accept this form of violence and control of women either. That is why the government must take measures without delay to make female genital mutilation more explicit in the Criminal Code. Mr President! In addition to the original objective of the initiative, there has also been a debate on the comparison of circumcision between boys and the mutilation of girls. Previously, the measure for girls was called circumcision, but the use of the term is no longer recommended, as the measures differ so fundamentally. That is why, among other things, the WHO, the UN and other international organisations are talking about mutilation for girls and circumcision for boys. A clear distinction between measures for girls and boys is an international standard. Mr President! In Finland, circumcision is performed by a private physician and they have a long tradition of proper care of the procedure by a doctor. For the Jews, circumcision is of enormous importance — since the Jewish ancestor Abraham, it has more than 4,000 years of tradition. The Supreme Court also considers that, in that context and properly done, circumcision can have positive meaning for the boy himself. It is considered to be relevant to the development of his identity and to the attachment to the religious and social community. According to the Supreme Court, it can therefore be considered to be a measure in the best interests of the child. Since non-medical circumcision is not covered by public health care, it is possible that there are more cases among other, particularly deprived, immigrant communities where the measure is not carried out under the right conditions. In inappropriate circumstances, without adequate pain relief or against the consent of the other parent, the act must be absolutely condemned and already punished under the current legislation. The criminalisation of circumcision among boys would probably only affect the reduction in the number of proper circumcisions practiced by law - abiding groups. It is hard to believe that groups that have not yet followed a legal and human course of action will suddenly stop circumcision altogether. The question therefore arises as to whether the criminalisation of boys’ non-medical circumcision would achieve the desired result. Mr President! I understand, of course, that the world is changing and, in addition to respect for relevant traditions, we need to look from time to time at the rights of children from a new perspective. After all, we have also changed our perceptions of the ways in which a child is raised and disciplined — physical punishment was criminalized 36 years ago. Protecting children is important, whether it is an unborn child or an eight - day - old child. Things should therefore be looked at honestly and comprehensively. From this point of view, it sounds partly hypocritical to talk about protecting an eight-day-old child from the removal of the foreskin and at the same time to fly, for example, as some Members here do, in favour of a soon-to-Parliament abortion initiative, which increases the rights of the mother to remove the whole healthy child from her womb by means of abortion at the time of pregnancy, when it would already survive even outside the womb. Of course, there can be many disagreements about the rights of an unborn child. The fact is, however, that in another case the child is connected to something and in another case the child is permanently removed from something. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u202	Mr President! It is indeed a good thing that this important citizens' initiative to ban female genital mutilation is now progressing. Quite rarely are these situations in which a citizens' initiative can be put forward so nicely — a truly happy day. Indeed, even now, genital mutilation is punishable in Finland. The offence is assessed on the basis of provisions of the Criminal Code on abuse. However, in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to clarify the criminality of female and female genital mutilation and that these changes in the law should be brought before Parliament during this parliamentary term, that is to say, rather soon. In the committee's report, we wanted to take fundamental and human rights into account, and this is a great thing. For example, immigration has increased substantially over the last few years, and people have also come to Finland from countries that practice mutilation. It is therefore justified that the criminal code should be subject to this specific provision on penalties for female genital mutilation. There is a very strong basis for this. This new penal provision would make it easier to take into account the specific features of female genital mutilation. The penal provisions on the abuse of criminal law do not necessarily fully cover the violation of sexual integrity and self-determination contained in the act at the moment. This specific provision of penalties and its presentations can also facilitate different situations of application and interpretation of the law. It should be borne in mind that legislative measures alone are not enough to prevent female genital mutilation. It takes a lot more than that. Other effective and effective practical measures are needed from different administrative sectors, health care, early childhood education, schools, different levels of education, migration processes and integration. In future, by making more explicit provisions on female and female genital mutilation, it will give a stronger sense of Singnalism that mutilation is indeed prohibited and punishable. In fact, there are only four countries in Europe in addition to Finland in which this female genital mutilation is not specifically prohibited — even though it is prohibited under our criminal law, but it is not specifically mentioned — that is, only five countries, and Finland is one of these. Preventive measures against female and female genital mutilation play an important role. However, legislative measures can support this and it is important that the legislation is clear and comprehensive in this respect. In that hearing of the committee, which we have indeed heard for a long time and in depth, we have been told that some of these mutilations may occur specifically abroad, and that is why it is important that these mutilations abroad are also subject to criminal penalties in all situations. They may happen, for example, if the family is on vacation or so. This citizens' initiative concerned only female and female genital mutilation, but the report also deals with boys' non-medical circumcision. In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we also felt that boys' non-medical circumcision was accompanied by clear regulatory needs, which deserve further clarification and evaluation. It is justified to assess the current situation, as the conditions for allowing non-medical circumcision for boys are currently not laid down at the level of the law in Finland. However, the committee stresses in its report, as has already been said here, that the regulatory needs of boys with regard to non-medical circumcision must not, however, delay this clarification of the criminality of female and female genital mutilation, which is also the subject of this citizens' initiative. So let us now focus on the issue of girls, as citizens have wanted to take forward with their initiative.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u203	Mr President! First of all, in Mr Honkasalo's speech, if he was referring to the Finns of Finland by pursuing his own agenda, then if the promotion of children's rights is an agenda for the Finns of Finland, we are perfectly happy to do so.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u204	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u205	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u206	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u207	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u208	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u209	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u210	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u211	Mr President! The citizens' initiative to ban female genital mutilation has gone a long way from leaving the initiative in this Chamber. First of all, I would like to thank the citizens' initiative and its supporters for putting an important issue at the heart of the social debate. This is a sensitive and personal issue, and this citizens' initiative has broken the silence around the subject. Female and female genital mutilation is a violent and outrageous measure that fundamentally violates the right to one’s own body and integrity. These rights belong to everyone. Citizens' initiatives have the power to change. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to support the idea of a clearer ban on female genital mutilation in the Criminal Code. It is already punishable by criminal law, but, following the consultations, the committee considered that there was a need for further clarification of the criminality and the validity of the offence. Undefined legislation is also an important tool influencing attitudes. Mr President! In the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, we had a very wide range of consultations with experts on the subject. As a member of the committee, it has been extremely valuable to have a wide range of views on what are the most effective means of combating mutilation in this country. I greatly appreciate the work that has been done in Finland against mutilation for a long time. Nevertheless, we have not been able to adequately protect girls from mutilation. Just correcting the articles will not solve this issue. In order to prevent mutilation, extensive social measures will continue to be needed. In addition to the legislative amendments, I would like to highlight three aspects: Anti-mutilation work is carried out at clinics, school health examinations and the nurse’s office, just in those basic everyday services. The success of the prevention of mutilation requires a greater understanding of this phenomenon in schools and in social and health care. Healthcare professionals and professionals in different fields need to be trained to address the issues of mutilation in a natural way. First of all, we must ensure that the action programme against mutilation is known in every municipality and that it is implemented with sufficient resources and sufficient expertise. In addition, the frequency of mutilation should continue to be monitored in school health surveys and other health reports. In addition to the public sector, organisations also play an essential role. Many organisations do important work by informing and educating people. Mutilation is a highly cultural phenomenon. It is therefore worth using trained cultural interpreters who understand the sensitivity involved. Secondly, we must ensure that organisations working against mutilation are supported. Mr President! Thirdly, a few ideas on immunity and sovereignty on a wider scale. The right to one’s own body, integrity and sexuality belongs to every person regardless of their background. Genital mutilation is a fundamental violation of this right. It cannot be justified by cultural or historical reasons, and it has to be said that the views expressed in this Chamber, too, are a little puzzled by the fact that mutilation would be a bigger problem when it happens in Finland than when it happens somewhere else — as if the dignity of these girls and women depended on where they live. I can't sign a point of view like this. [Sebastian Tynkyse’s interlude] Women and girls who have been victims of mutilation need help and support. Sexual health, i.e. the right to care for one’s own sexual well-being, is an important part of general health care. Women undergoing mutilation should be offered a low-threshold opportunity for corrective surgery and mental support to undergo experience. Mr President! Finally, it has been very important for the Greens and myself personally that the Committee on Legal Affairs should also deal with the situation of boys in its report, even though it does not include the proposals for this citizens' initiative which is now under discussion. The claims that boys have been ignored in the discussion of the citizens' initiative are simply incorrect. It is precisely with its report that the committee is opening up the debate on the unclear legal status of boys, not in the same way as the mutilation of girls, but as a question of its own, with its own sensitivity. It is particularly important for boys to follow up the latest researched information on the effects of circumcision on growth, development and sexual health. Physical self-determination belongs to everyone regardless of gender. In line with this principle, the legislation on boys’ circumcision should be clarified and assessed in relation to medical treatment practices. The Greens believe that the rights of intergender children should also be taken into account in this context.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u212	Madam President! I would like to thank the citizens' initiative makers for this good and also for the citizens' initiative, which has received a great deal of public attention. I very much welcome the fact that the citizens' initiative to ban female and female genital mutilation is progressing here in Parliament. It is absolutely essential that the criminality of female and female genital mutilation be clarified, and these clarifying provisions should be included in criminal law. Worldwide, mutilation threatens about three million girls every single year. The mutilation also affects Finns. There are over 10,000 mutilated girls or women living in our country. In addition, an estimated 650 to 3,000 girls are at risk of being mutilated. It is true that mutilation is already punishable in Finland, as it fulfils the criteria for abuse. Nevertheless, it is important that this issue be re-assessed, inter alia, through the social changes that have taken place over the years. It is possible to clarify the severity of the offence in the Finnish Penal Code. In addition, other effective practical measures are needed in different administrative sectors such as health care, early childhood education, schools, migration processes and integration. Health education plays an important role in prevention, and it is important to teach girls and women, especially from an immigration point of view, about their own rights, protecting their own body and the disadvantages of mutilation. It is necessary to take these measures into account, because legislative measures alone are not sufficient to prevent female genital mutilation. In addition, measures must be taken to prevent girls from travelling abroad from being mutilated. There is never any medical justification for female and female genital mutilation. There is no justification for this brutal act. The mutilation of girls is a life-threatening violation of human rights. Mutilation is an irreversible procedure that causes painful pain and fatal infections. As a result of mutilation, a woman’s sexual pleasure is only a distant, unreachable dream, but the pain caused by intercourse is a reality. Childbirth is extremely dangerous for a mutilated mother, but also for a baby to be born. Madam President! Although the citizens' initiative concerned girls and women, I would also like to comment here on the circumcision of boys, because in the context of the discussion of the citizens' initiative we also examined in committee the non-medical circumcision of boys, the legal status and practices relating to it. These issues were raised in the committee's expert hearing. I do not underestimate the situation of the boys or find it satisfactory. It is quite clear that boys' non-medical circumcision involves regulatory needs which need to be further investigated and assessed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u213	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u214	And a conversation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u215	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u216	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u217	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u218	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u219	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u220	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u221	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u222	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u223	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u224	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u225	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u226	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u227	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u228	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u229	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u230	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u231	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u232	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u233	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u234	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u235	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u236	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u237	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u238	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u239	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u240	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u241	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u242	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u243	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u244	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u245	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u246	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u247	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u248	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u249	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u250	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u251	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u252	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u253	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u254	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u255	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u256	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u257	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u258	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u259	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u260	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u261	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u262	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u263	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u264	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u265	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u266	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u267	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u268	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u269	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u270	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u271	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u272	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u273	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u274	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u275	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u276	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u277	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u278	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u279	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u280	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u281	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u282	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u283	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u284	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u285	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u286	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u287	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u288	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u289	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u290	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u291	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u292	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u293	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u294	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u295	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u296	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u297	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u298	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u299	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u300	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u301	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u302	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u303	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u304	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u305	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u306	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u307	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u308	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u309	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u310	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u311	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u312	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u313	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u314	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u315	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u316	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u317	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u318	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u319	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u320	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u321	The 12th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be set aside for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u322	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u323	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u324	The 13th item of the agenda will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u325	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u326	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u327	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u328	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u329	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u330	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u331	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u332	A 14th item of the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance. A maximum of 30 minutes will be reserved for the referral. The proceedings shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures agreed on in the case of scheduled cases.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u333	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u334	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u335	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u336	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u337	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u338	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u339	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u340	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u341	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u342	Mr President! The Government’s proposal concerns the group reduction of the final loss of a subsidiary located in the European Economic Area and the amendment of Article 18a of the Act on the taxation of business income, i.e. the limitation of the deductibility of interest. This proposal is based on an official comment from the Commission to Finland. The purpose of the Government’s proposal is to clarify the legislation in such a way as to ensure that the so-called final losses of a foreign subsidiary are taken into account in the taxation of the group as required by EU law, but that the legislation continues to safeguard the Finnish tax base. At the same time, this proposal implements a record of final losses in the Government Programme, which is part of the aggressive anti-tax planning measures. According to the proposal, final losses would be taken into account in the taxation of the parent company as a separate group deduction. The law would apply to the limited liability companies and cooperatives that may be the donor or recipient of a group grant. The parent company should therefore immediately own at least nine tenths of the share capital or shares of the subsidiary. In certain situations indirect ownership would also be taken into account. According to the proposal, the final loss would be those losses that the subsidiary or any other entity could not and could not use in the future either at its tax residence or elsewhere. One of the conditions would be that the subsidiary has ceased its activities and that the subsidiary has been dissolved. Such final losses should also exist under the tax law of the subsidiary’s home country. The parent company should demonstrate the number of losses of subsidiaries and their finality within the meaning of EU law. The amount of the Group reduction would be calculated on the basis of the final loss amount of the subsidiary. The amount of final losses should be calculated on the basis of the end of the last full tax year of the subsidiary and the end of the winding-up period. The amount would be calculated on both dates, in accordance with both the tax legislation of the subsidiary's home country and the Act on the Taxation of Business Income. The amount of the final loss would be considered to be the lowest of the amounts thus calculated. The group reduction could be deducted at most by the taxable profit of the parent company’s business activities during the tax year. The deduction would be made in the tax year in which the subsidiary is wound up, and the law would also provide for certain reduction amounts, the effect of the possibility of using subsequent losses, the effect of the subsequent change in the taxation of the subsidiary on the amount of the group deduction and certain procedural provisions. In addition, it is proposed to amend the provisions of the Act on the taxation of business income with regard to the limitation of interest rebates in such a way as to reduce the group reduction in the same way as the group contribution is deducted from the operating result on which the calculation of non-deductible net interest expenses is based. The laws are intended to enter into force on the first day of next year and will be applied for the first time in the taxation to be provided for 21 years.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u343	Mr President! As the Minister has said here, and now that we have started working on this proposal in the Tax Section, the main reason behind this proposal is this procedure for Finland launched by the EU Commission, and we will, of course, go through this proposal carefully. This is now the case for these subsidiaries that operate in the Eta area and whose mother is located here in Finland. Mr. Speaker! Perhaps I should like to say something else about taxation of group structures. In that regard, when the Minister also raised this aggressive tax planning, there have been many other changes which have been introduced, which have been dealt with, and one of these, which has come into force some years ago, concerns the right to deduct interest on these so-called 'frontline situations', which is limited to the amount of EUR 500000. In fact, since the beginning of 2019, the right to deduct these external interest rates has been limited in legislation, and this BEPS project, i.e. the OECD measures that have been implemented by EU legislation, is the basis for it again. I understand these group-level solutions very well. I am sure there are reasons for them. Of course, the second question is how much is said, even though the limitation of the deductibility of interest payments on bank loans by a Finnish company has nothing to do with its original objective, but I will not go into that now. In any case, the theme has now been reviewed several times over the last couple of years, and now we are going to go through this proposal and how it responds to this Commission's demand to Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-11-04-ps-139.u344	The matter will be sent to the Committee on Finance and the Minister for Finance for the birthday. - Happy birthday to me too.
