ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u1	A second item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 6/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u2	Mr President! The proposal provides for a new benefit to be implemented by the Social Insurance Institution. The aid amounts to EUR 28.94 per day and is paid on weekdays, i.e. normally six days a week. On average, the aid amount is EUR 723.50 per month. The benefit is financed from State resources. The applicant must present to Kela an employer’s certificate of unpaid leave due to the care or quarantine of the child. The Act is valid until 31 August 2020. It shall apply from 16 March 1920, i.e. it is possible to apply for and receive aid for a retroactive period if the conditions of the aid have been met at that time. The Committee on Social Affairs and Health considers the draft law to be urgent and necessary and advocates its adoption unchanged with the following comments. Support is granted to a parent who, as recommended by the Board of Directors, takes care of his/her child at home and is therefore on unpaid leave from his/her gainful employment. The aid concerns a parent whose child is in early childhood education, pre-school education, primary education from 1 to 3. in the annual grade or who has received special support for a decision, is subject to extended compulsory education or preparatory education for basic education. Parents of children not in early childhood education are entitled to support during the school year of basic education. The granting of the aid is subject to the employment or service relationship in force in Finland. There is no entitlement to support if, for example, a person is working at a distance or on annual leave for his or her gainful work. There is also no entitlement to support if the person is out of work, for example because of lay-off. For the same period, only one of the parents or spouses of the family can receive support. The amount of the allowance is the same irrespective of the number of children being treated. The right to support is also granted to persons arriving in Finland from abroad who have been directed to conditions equivalent to quarantine for 14 days and who are therefore on unpaid leave from work. In their case, too, a working or service relationship in force in Finland would be required, and unpaid absence is due to directing to conditions similar to quarantine. This refers to conditions equivalent to quarantine in accordance with Article 3 of the Act on communicable diseases. The expert opinions received by the committee have drawn attention to the fact that, in addition to children who have received special support and children under extended compulsory education, there are other groups in which the parent or other person has been forced to stay at home without pay to care for the disabled or those close to them who need such support. Such situations may have arisen, for example, from the closure of work centres or day-care centres or the transfer of secondary studies to be arranged as distance learning. Instead of special support, children receiving enhanced support at home may also require a parent to leave work. The committee notes that the support for informal care does not prevent the aid now proposed from being granted if the other conditions for receiving the aid are met. In these situations, municipalities also have the possibility to take into account the temporary increase in the need for care in the amount of informal care. In addition, municipalities are still obliged to organise services under the Disability Services Act and the Disability Act, which, in an epidemic situation, need to be carried out in search of different means of implementation. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the government proposal has been drafted as a matter of urgency to facilitate the livelihood of people who have been deprived of pay as a result of the government's recommendations and who are not covered by any income-saving benefit. Due to the exceptional circumstances of the corona virus epidemic, rapid preparation of the proposal has not been possible to organise a consultation. The committee considers it necessary to examine urgently the need for additional support for the specific groups mentioned above and those who have not been paid to take care of them. Mr President! In the implementation of the aid, care must be taken to ensure that the aid is limited to situations where working is not possible, either directly or indirectly, due to exceptional circumstances. Due to exceptional circumstances, a number of temporary changes have been made to the Unemployment Security Act to ensure the livelihood of self-employed persons, among other things. According to a report received by the committee, the entrepreneur is also entitled to labour market support if the end of full-time employment is due to child care due to the corona virus situation. The payment of labour market support to entrepreneurs requires a person to register as a job seeker at the Employment and Economic Development Office, which states that the full-time work is completed on the basis of the applicant’s own notice. The Committee stresses the need for particular attention to be paid to the smooth implementation of temporary unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs. It is also possible to obtain the aid now under consideration in a contract of employment where there is no fixed working time but, for example, a working time arrangement in which an employee undertakes to work for the employer on an individual basis, i.e. a so-called zero-hour contract. In order to receive the allowance, the loss of earnings is due to the organisation of the child’s care and the other conditions laid down by law are fulfilled. Securing the livelihood of customers with temporary support during the corona virus epidemic is a new task for Kela. The change will increase the workload of Kela in terms of solution work and customer service. According to the report received by the committee, Kela has the capacity to implement the legislation and start the decision-making work immediately after the Board's proposal has been approved and the law has been adopted. Kela's resources for rapid processing of applications must be secured. It is particularly important for the beneficiaries that the proposed aid is widely communicated and that the application be made as simple as possible so that the income of the families eligible for the aid can be secured within the meaning of the proposal. The committee's report contains one objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u3	Mr President! This support was dealt with quite thoroughly in the referral debate last week and, although there has been an urgent timetable, very rapid work has been done in committee. This in itself is necessary, and it was good to hear that this also applies to people who are in rather atypical employment relationships, including those working on zero-hour contracts. At the moment, we are having a debate about perhaps starting to open schools, especially these lowest grades, and in that sense it is also good to know that this aid can then be applied for retrospectively when, however, there has been a loss of earnings. I think that the protests here have raised these special groups and their situations with great merit, and the chairman of the committee has also referred to them. In my opinion, this is an important, large group for which, in the case of parents, we should find out how much work arrangements have now been made. For example, I heard about a case in which the housing unit has decided to limit all visits to that unit, when then the parents have made decisions that they cannot consider their children to be isolated for weeks without contact with their loved ones, and have then made such work arrangements that they have taken the child home from the housing unit. I think there are special arrangements of this kind for these special groups, and of course it would be good to go through these, because it is quite clear, for example, that in the case of certain young people who have had, for example, these housing units in connection with studies, these arrangements have now been made quickly and quickly in exceptional circumstances, and in that sense I hope that the committee, having drawn attention to this issue, will actually be able to deal with this. Indeed, it is a good thing that this is being brought forward, and hopefully this will also help these families, perhaps retrospectively.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u4	Mr President! The chairman of the committee has just presented the content of this report and, in that respect, this draft law. This proposal is very good and worthy of support, and I am very pleased that it came so quickly. In fact, there is only one point I would like to address, which was also the subject of this objection and which I was also pleased to see in this report, namely that these are the special groups and the special groups of adult age. For example, if you are 22 years old, severely disabled, sick young people who have been in day centre activities, when day centre activities are suspended or temporarily suspended because of the interest, this means that one of the parents will have to come home to take care of the life of this disabled young person at home because he cannot make it there. As a result, the parent’s coming home does not secure the income of these parents in these situations. This was also discussed in committee, and I am therefore pleased that the committee was clearly informed — and this has also been communicated to the ministry — that the committee considers it necessary that the need for additional support from the specific groups mentioned above be clarified urgently, so that this matter should be rectified as a matter of urgency. Let us hope that this will be done as quickly as the actual bill has been put forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u5	Mr President! True Finns consider it justified that subsidies are paid to people who are not paid for work because of the corona virus epidemic. It's justifiable. The Finns Party also considers it justified that the law should be applied retrospectively so that compensation can also be paid to those who have already experienced this loss of earnings since the government issued the relevant instructions. The True Finns believe that, in the case of a parent who is forced to leave work due to a corona virus epidemic in order to care for his or her child at home, compensation should, from an equal point of view, cover widely all situations where the parent is forced to stay at home to care for the child in need of special care, i.e. whether it is from 1 to 3. a child in the year class or older. The support should include parents whose children are under enhanced support or who have exceeded compulsory education age, as presented to the Social and Health Committee by the Finnish Association for the Disabled, the Finnish Association for Mentally Impaired Persons, the Finnish Association for Mentally Impaired Persons and the Finnish Association for Family Care. In addition, family carers who have had to leave work to provide support for their needy loved ones should be taken into account. Mr President! The Finns also consider it problematic that support for a person who is being quarantined could also be paid to a foreigner whose employment or service relationship in Finland has not started before 16 March 1920, that is, the date when the government stated that exceptional circumstances had begun. The purpose of the law must be to compensate for loss of earnings due to unforeseen circumstances, and not to automatically pay the low-cost labour force from abroad to work in Finland in the event that the employer enters into employment contracts with those workers only after the start of exceptional circumstances. In this situation, it is not justified for employers to be encouraged to hire cheap foreign workers with the support of society. Society should give a clear signal that in times of crisis it is desirable to employ Finns who are primarily unemployed or laid off. The foreign labour force should be used only if there are no Finnish workers who are genuinely available for this task. Persons coming to work in Finland from abroad are required to have a quarantine period of two weeks, which would not be required for Finnish workers in the same job. Since this is not an unexpected situation for new foreign workers, the employer should also bear the costs of a possible quarantine period. Alternatively, the employer may arrange the accommodation of the worker in question in such a way that they can work under quarantine conditions without contact with the surrounding society. Mr President! Hundreds of thousands of Finns are at risk of unemployment or lay-off. The Finns Party has presented measures to the Government that would contribute to the large-scale accessibility of the domestic workforce by enabling them to work in the agricultural sector on a seasonal basis without suffering from layoffs or dismissal. This would be in national interest, would increase the amount of disposable income laid off and made redundant, and most of this revenue would be consumed at home. There is broad support from the opposition for this proposal, but the government has so far not taken it up. However, it would be urgent to provide the necessary workforce for farms. We are again offering the government a hand of cooperation in this matter. Mr President! Finally, I would like to make an amendment in line with the protest of the Finns of Finland regarding section 2 of the bill.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u6	Mr President! Let me repeat to everyone what this is all about. In other words, this issue now concerns seasonal workers first and foremost, in a situation where we have thousands of unemployed Finns, thousands of young people who have been left without a summer job, and they would like to come to the farms to work. According to Iltalehti, there have been 10,000 jobseekers registered, and at least the farm.fi service already includes over 6,000 Finnish job seekers who apply for work on farms. In this situation, it seems unreasonable to me that the state is going to sponsor seasonal workers in this way. First of all, all Finns should be employed. If, in any case, the farmer wants to take seasonal workers from abroad, then we believe that the compensation for quarantine is also due to the farmer. I support Mr Reijonen's objection.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u7	Thank you. I would like to point out that this matter will be dealt with in detail after the recess.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u8	Mr President! I realized that this is, above all, about families where an adult has stayed home. Now, please confirm that I'm right. [Left: Just like this!] Mr President! This motion has not come to Parliament very quickly, Mr Kiljunen. It was decided to close schools in this country on 18 March, and today is 21 April, which means that it has taken more than a month to get this proposal to Parliament. At the time when the schools were decided to close in Parliament, we raised, at least by the coalition, the concern that we have many families who cannot stay at home to support their children's remote education. We brought it up when the presentation was in the form that, even for small schoolchildren, schools are closed down and only children from critical sectors come to schools. After all, the government of Prime Minister Marin changed this proposal and decided to keep schools open for small schoolchildren. This concern arose that some parents could stay away from doing their own work and support children’s distance learning. But then we had a large number of people who could not stay for economic reasons. These families have now had to expose their own children and also their families to larger contact rates because the parent has not been able to leave his or her own work to do telework or without pay at home. Well, here's the show. Of course, this will be welcomed with satisfaction, and this will help families who have taken that risk and have been able to stay home without pay. But then this will not help in any way those families who have now had to make a decision for a month for economic reasons that the child has been placed in contact education, were exposed to these contact rates in schools, and parents have been forced to go to work when there has been no economic chance to stay at home. So in that sense, this performance comes unauthorizedly late, a month after the school closure has begun. Of course, this will help now if these locks continue until mid-May or possibly throughout the spring, but today some government parties have already said that they are in favour of opening schools, and we are waiting for what decisions the government is making in that corner of income.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u9	Mr President! This is a follow-up to the decision we have already taken here that schools are, as a rule, closed in such a way that pupils have been transferred from local education to remote education. A small group of these smallest schoolchildren are still in local education, as we know. A significant proportion of parents do telework too, and it is understandable that they are able to contribute to that distance education for their children. There are also parents, as we know, of whom this is precisely what we are talking about here, who have not been hired to help their children with distance education, and in this respect it is appropriate that we are now genuinely supporting them in this respect. The validity of this proposal, if the crisis continues, has been built in such a way that, as far as early education is concerned, it will continue until the end of August and then until the end of May for other basic education. However, when we have understood, among other things, the Ministry of Education's own proposals here, that the Minister would wish and agree that this contact teaching could be secured and guaranteed and made possible for everyone as soon as possible, 13 May is the critical day, is it correct — and I am sure that the chairman of the committee will answer this when he has a speech coming up — whether I am correct to understand that this support would end at the moment when this contact teaching starts, i.e. in the middle of May, if that happens? This, of course, also opens up questions, and I say the question that just opens up here, that it would not only be appropriate to have 11 days of that 13.5. After school, we will also consider extending the school year, for example, by a couple of weeks to the end of June, when we will be able to patch up a little of what has been lost here this spring.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u10	President! Indeed, the purpose of this government proposal is to secure the livelihood of those who have acted, as recommended and instructed by the government, in order to combat this corona epidemic and have therefore lost their own normal wage income. So now we are replacing the loss of income due to the fact that these people, in doing so, want to protect other people and protect themselves from this disease. Indeed, it is very clear that teleworking is not possible in all jobs. Especially for low - income families, this support is very important. In the Left Alliance, we consider this proposal to be necessary and good and we are pleased that the government has reacted to the fact that there is a real need for financial support in these families. I myself have received feedback on this, that this kind of new support is needed and hoped for. So, for my part, I would like to thank the government for reacting to this. Well, the chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, Mr Vehviläinen, very well presented how we dealt with this issue in committee, and I think that in this report the committee has taken good account of the various categories of people involved in this support, such as family carers or those working on a zero-hour contract. It is also worth noting that these expert opinions, which were received, were very broadly in favour of this proposal. But yes, I myself believe that there is still a need for further study: for example, enhanced support for the situation of parents of pupils and of children with disabilities of full age I also believe that the situation and support of these parents must be clarified. As has been pointed out here, the committee also drew attention to this issue, and this report states that we consider it necessary to clarify the need for additional support for these special groups and those who have been left unremunerated and to clarify it as a matter of urgency. Last Friday, when we had a referral debate on this proposal, Mr Pekonen, fortunately too, and very well, said at the time that such situations need to be clarified, and that is why I think that we can be confident that, when we adopt this proposal, this will also be done. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is very important to clarify in relation to all these subsidies who are the people who are now excluded from the aid, i.e. to look through this whole, because there are certainly others who are not. That is why I think it is important for these people, who are equally in need of support, to find out comprehensively and then we will support them as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u11	Mr President! Just a few more comments. First of all, when I mentioned these self-employed people in the introduction, it was indeed stated in this report that the sole self-employed can benefit from this unemployment benefit, and the reason may also be that they are not paid or without the income generated by their business activities to care for the child. I would like to point out that this support is valid until 31 August, and that means that when the basic education period ends normally at the end of May, if the child is still in early childhood education during the summer, the parent can receive this support. But for these entrepreneurs, that unemployment benefit would indeed end on 30 June. I myself think that if this epidemic situation continues and needs to be looked forward, then we should be prepared from the government's side to look at the continuation of unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs too, that they will then be in the same position as equals. But then there is the proposal and the presentation itself. On this point, this is a two-part one. These are the persons, mothers and fathers, the parents whose child is indeed in preschool or the first to third grade or, for special reasons, extended compulsory education. In other words, as one group, and then as another group, they will return when it has already been stated that everyone, whether Finnish, Finnish or foreign, who are now coming to Finland from abroad, must be in quarantine for 14 days. It's kind of the one group. Again, a small number of these seasonal workers are from there, and I understand that the opposition of the Finns is directed at this group. I would like to comment on this protest from the Finns of Peru, when it is stated here that it is ‘problems ’ — directly quoted — ‘that aid for quarantine could also be paid to a foreigner whose employment or office relationship in Finland has not started before16 March 2020,the date on which the government’sreligious circumstances began’. If we are talking about seasonal workers, it is quite theoretical that they would have been here in Finland for seasonal work in January and February, when, in fact, berry farms are looking for these seasonal workers abroad, including Ukraine, just in winter. So I think there is some kind of conflict here. I would also like to say, in reference to Mr Kiljunen's speech, that we know that Finland will also be discussing whether or not restrictions are still being lifted on the beginning of schools. After all, we now have restrictions until 13 May. Of course, if there were to be a theoretical — speculation enough — that children would still go to school at the end of May, then, of course, it would no longer be possible to obtain this support at that stage. Of course it's all tied up in it. But then I think it is important when Mr Heinonen pointed out that this would have been a little slow to come here, so I am defending the government in the fact that these last few weeks, which we have had on the side of the government, have been very laborious for weeks. However, as a whole, I think it is a success that we have been able, on the part of the government and in Parliament, in good cooperation with the whole party field, the opposition, to move these issues forward quickly. I would also like to thank the opposition deeply for this. This is not an easy task, and we in the committee also recognise and recognise that it is not always possible to become a top priority either. That is why there are also positions that have been taken into account that not all the special groups are involved. But I think it is very important that this kind of work can also be done quickly in this house.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u12	Mr President! The chairman of the committee very well answered the question, which I thought I would raise, and which relates mainly to this second part of this proposal as regards support for seasonal workers and workers arriving in Finland from abroad. This proposal does not in any way intend to favour cheap labour here. On the contrary, I believe and know that domestic workers are being applied for and are being applied for, for example, agriculture, but the only problem is that there are no workers there, and that is why, unfortunately, we have to pick up some of the workers from abroad. Since they are being quarantined when they arrive in Finland, I think it is right and reasonable that they also receive some support from that time of quarantine, like everyone else who, for example, returns to Finland and is quarantined and cannot earn money during its quarantine.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u13	Mr President! I believe that this is one example of the swift and rather comprehensive measures that the government has, however, been able to take to respond to this shocking situation here and now. Measures have been taken to safeguard health, which is, therefore, the most important thing, measures have been taken to safeguard employment, that is, support for businesses and entrepreneurs, and measures have been taken to safeguard people's livelihoods, which I think is a very good example, as well as the possibility for entrepreneurs to receive unemployment benefit mentioned here. All these things are needed, they are needed here and now, and I am pleased that they can be brought to this Chamber by the government as well as in this House, in a timely manner and in such a way that, if not perfect, then these remarks will be made and we will be confident that they will soon be corrected. I also think that the committee has done an excellent job in this regard, having received such a good, comprehensive report. I am not in the committee in question, but at least I am confident that this will be read in the government there and will be followed up and, if necessary, corrected, and that the points which may still remain a little open or unclear will always come back. I think that is quite right, because in this situation speed is, however, an asset and is expected. I was reminded here by my fellow Member, Mrs Anneli Kiljunen, very gratefully that when they said that this was too slow and that there has not been enough time to get on board, it is also clear from this report that this is a retroactive entry into force. It has been recorded, and I too thought that since 16 March there would be the possibility of receiving this aid, and then it would be a little different in itself, whether it is now a week or two before or after it is here. Mr Heinonen was so critical that we are in the process of being late, but this backwardness is all the more the right thing to do. I think it is very important, Mr President, to which reference was made earlier in the debate on the budgetary plan, that we cannot repeat the mistakes of the last recession and recession, and here is one way in which we will not repeat it: we will not leave families and people with low incomes in distress, but we will secure their livelihood. Thank you not only to the government for its swift action, but also to these people who, as has been well said here, are following the recommendations of the government. It is also a great financial sacrifice for them, and that is why it is so great that we can also take these proposals forward here, Mr President.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u14	Mr President! Here, in fact, I would also like to support the chairman of the committee in the fact that when we talk about these seasonal workers, it is absolutely essential that we get seasonal workers in Finland safely to help our farmers, berry farmers and others who need skilled, committed people in the summer for their crops there. On this question of quarantine — at least what information has been received from outside the committee on this matter — it is quite clear that these farmers are going to try to get these seasonal workers safely to Finland, because it is in the interests of all of us and also in their interest that the people who work are healthy and by no means spread the corona there and then to Finland more widely. Another point I asked to speak on following Mr Heinonen's speech when he criticised the urgency or urgency of this bill. Rather, he pointed out that this is a bit of a drag on this issue, so I just wanted to say that this law applies from 16 March, that it is possible to apply for and receive support retrospectively from there, and that this period has also been taken into account when this corona epidemic arose and the children have then been absent from school and the parents have taken care of their children at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u15	Mr President! That date 16 March 1920 is quite conscious and, of course, we support our view that if an employee from abroad is wanted after the start of the emergency, then the employer will be aware of the 14-day interval and will then be prepared to take responsibility for the income or salary of the qualifying period on his own. In that situation again, if the contract of employment was concluded before that date — I am sure it will be less so, but it may be that the contract of employment was concluded before the start of exceptional circumstances, even if the work itself starts later — then they have not known about this roughness, and then we think it is quite reasonable for the State to intervene and pay for the period of validity for it. It's okay. This 16.3. is well aware, and we justify it by the fact that, in this situation, when we actually have hundreds of thousands of people in Finland — laid off, unemployed, thousands of young people — who are looking for jobs and who are excited about coming to work on farms, of course we should first of all hire Finnish workers. Even in terms of security of supply, it is important that we have Finnish workers on farms. I do not understand this starting point why it is important for Finland that we have seasonal workers from abroad for as long as we have the labour reserve in Finland. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u16	The general debate is closed. The detailed procedure and the vote will take place in this part-session after a recess. The sitting and the proceedings shall be adjourned and the session resumed at 7:25 p.m.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u17	The sitting adjourned at 7:18 p.m. and the second item in the order of business is now resumed. The amendments are now being discussed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u18	Mr President! I present the amendments to Section 2 in line with the protests of the Finns of Peru.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u19	Mr President! I support Mr Reijonen's proposals.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u20	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on TaVM 8/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u21	Mr President! This bill has gone into this Chamber as soon as possible, both through the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and now through the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, and it is being taken forward unanimously. There are important and very topical changes here that need to be made... [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u22	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u23	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u24	Mr President! This is indeed an important change in the law, and I wonder whether it was a week and a half or two weeks ago, when this was actually the subject of the debate here in the Chamber, that something would now be needed to allow these associations and the annual meetings of the Communities to be kept at a distance, because this would not have been possible if this amendment had not been made, if this amendment had not been mentioned separately in the rules of the association. In this way, even associations that do not have that mention in the rules will now be able to carry this out. In that sense, this was indeed good and swift action on the part of the Ministry of Justice, and it is good that this is the way forward. Finland is, as has always been said, the promised country of associations, and we really have thousands and thousands of associations to think about how to deal with this issue. For example, as party chairman, I tried to clarify it when, for example, the National Audit Office has its own deadlines for the provision of financial statements and other similar documents in the districts, and even though such vague promises from officials came from the fact that, under these exceptional circumstances, there must be some flexibility and the possibility of looking at the matter and other such things, if this legislative amendment had not been introduced, it would have been a little difficult to proceed on the basis of the views of these individual officials, especially since it may be that someone else to whom you call will then say a little differently about the matter, and the interpretation when it is considered that this exception could be introduced will vary. In that sense, it can be said that a very good and welcome bill, and it is good that this is the way to bring this matter to the attention of the associations. And just this, that then this information is now important to take to the airport. This has still not become public knowledge that associations know that this kind of legal project is now coming, and that is why many associations are still considering these relocations and other kinds of solutions. In that sense, bringing information forward to the citizens is then the next important step. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u25	Mr President! Firstly, as chairman of the committee, I would like to thank all the experts who, at a very rapid pace, studied the material and gave opinions and were prepared and available for the hearings which we have now conducted in exceptional distance, and of course I would like to thank our committee advisers and committee members for the work that everyone was doing late in the evening on this matter. The Committee on Legal Affairs also heard the parties, because they had not been consulted in the drafting of the law, and that is why there are a few references here specifically concerning the parties. Indeed, this is an exemption law that will be in force until 30 September, and this will make it easier and now really regulated for spring meetings to be postponed until 30 September. This also makes it possible for an agent to be used at meetings of an association, even if the rules do not allow it, and also for remote access to remote devices, even if the rules do not allow it. The feedback came from why this is not until the end of the year, that it would have been nice to combine spring and autumn meetings. At this stage in the preparation, the ministry and experts considered the problem that there could be consequences that could not be assessed. We were given a promise from the Ministry that we would assess this need and then perhaps bring a further proposal in time if this were to happen. On the other hand, it is a good thing that we are now just taking an epidemic and perhaps a predictable window of time, after which we will then assess with the ears of the summer whether there is a need for further action, that there will be no such legislation, that we will forget some of the assessments which could not under any circumstances have been made in this haste. Then there's this remote involvement. The committee pointed out that some people might need to use such technical digital assistants. Of course, it cannot be said now that this should be done or allowed, but it can happen because it is a practical reality that we in Parliament cannot go and say that we can use any person around it. But it is good to note that people may need help with the use of equipment, and that is why the board of the association must give clear instructions on how to do this. One thing that was added here following consultation with the parties is that the board of the association may require that a representative at the party meeting be a member of the founding organisation of the party. In fact, I said in a joke that I could not, for example, collect credentials and arrive in the centre or in the Green Party unless the party's government insists on me making proposals on behalf of the party. In addition, one further observation was given to the Ministry’s advice on the Legal Committee that we should see what other legal needs exist, because, for example, registered religious communities are not fully involved in this, and it did not have time to do this. This really applies to hundreds of thousands of associations. Information is extremely important: however, there are a very large number of people there who, along with their work, deal with these matters of association, and then the information must be clear to them. Here's a ball for the Ministry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u26	Mr President! This piece of law is particularly important. It is important for the associations to be able to hold these meetings. And it is really good that this has come so suddenly anyway and this is being taken forward. I also think it is important that these people who do not all have Internet or remote access have been taken into account, and this problem has also been taken into account. So it's really important that this move forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u27	Mr President! It is quite reasonable that the meetings of these associations can be given this postponement, which is necessary in this crisis situation, and such remote participation can also be considered. Some speakers have said that this could also be thought of as a permanent practice in a longer run. There may also be a side to it, but I would also like to take this point with the big question marks. The problem in Finland is that we have a lot of loneliness. Social contact is considerably weaker than in most other countries in the world, where closer interaction is taking place in a family-centred and other way. The fact that we would begin to hold remote meetings as a general rule would atomicize society even further. We have this difficulty, especially for the senior population, that they are experiencing strong loneliness. Participation in these meetings often does not mean that there are so-called obligations under the Association Act to meet, that we are therefore going to carry out these obligations, but that we are meeting for its own sake, and that contact, the interaction of social contact, is the key issue. That is why I would not be encouraging myself to think that more and more of this is being dispersed and we are at a distance from each other as human beings, but that, once this crisis is overcome, there will also be room for that normal and yet reinforced interaction, social contact.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u28	That is exactly what I agree with the previous speaker, Mr President, but I would like to stress that this legislation, as I hope it will sometimes be amended, aims to make it possible not to force it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u29	The fourth item in the order of business will be presented for the first reading. This is based on the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, MmVM 4/2020 vp. The content of the legislative proposals is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u30	Mr President! This legislation, resulting from exceptional circumstances, aims to facilitate the operation of the agricultural, forestry, hunting and fisheries land-use sector in so far as they are disturbed by exceptional circumstances. This report, which we did, was unanimous, and a very good-spirited debate took place, and we felt that, on the basis of an expert consultation and other studies, this law was very important and necessary. If we start with this section of agriculture and forestry, the legislation will allow for a further one year if the measures relating to the deadlines for applying for aid cannot be implemented due to exceptional circumstances. This applies not only to agricultural subsidies, but also to the Kemera aid, i.e. the early care of the seedling or the care of the young forest. In addition, in the case of payments, advances will be made easier so that advances can be paid as much as possible when the financial situation is affected. This does not even take money from the state, but is money for the operators in any case, but now the advance payments are also given everything that is necessary and what can be done. For the rest, there was already a presentation of this meeting. This makes it possible by means of speech or vision and other means of meeting communication, even by e-mail, different meetings within the meaning of the Joint Forest Act and the Joint Area Act, just as was already the case above. We also wanted to open up the fact that we do not really have to hold meetings either. One option is that if you feel that you do not have the resources or know-how to do this, meetings can also be postponed as far as possible. As such, I think it is very welcome, even though Mr Kiljunen has a bit of a duubioik, that we should not go to such remote meetings. For example, if you consider meetings in the land - use sector when owners may be very distant from the actual supply, this is a very good service, and in many other cases it is in those less populated areas. This is, in fact, basically what these meetings are about. Perhaps from the point of view of fisheries, I could say that meetings of shareholders and fisheries regions can also be organised using the same methods, and that will also guarantee that, when there are decisions to be taken, the state will also be able to provide funding for various projects, and that is how that side of the project should function reasonably normally. As yet a small detail, one thing hunters have not been able to arrange in addition to organising normal meetings is hunting tests. Therefore, if the moose mark expires this year, it will give you an extension of one year, and of this many people who have been looking forward to shooting the sign with terror will be very pleased.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u31	Mr President! This flexibility in the time limits for applications for aid for agriculture, forestry, fisheries, reindeer husbandry and rural development, and also the flexibility of the deadlines for these payments, in particular in moving towards faster or even advance payments, is a very important and sensible legislative proposal. It is also the fact that, at the same time, the provisions relating to the Association Act which we have just dealt with are quite similar to those relating to the Association Act for these municipalities and also to the shareholders. In that sense, it can be said that this is precisely the kind of profit of common sense in these situations, that it is important that things are done and that different deadlines and similar provisions in this type of situation should be flexible in favour of applicants. It was an interesting anecdote to hear that even then this extension of the time limit for the shooting test related to hunting without that test is also possible with this bill. The motion to be supported, and I am not surprised that unanimity has moved forward from the committee.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u32	Mr President! This bill of law, as well as the previous one, has a slightly bigger general meaning, as this interest rate is now changing many practices in Finland. Perhaps the big change is likely to be that this independence of the time and place of work will be taken seriously, and it will change a great deal of practice, and it may be that in 20 years' time people will wonder what these agencies have generally done. This is possible, but it must also be done on a voluntary basis so that employees and managers can choose where to work in Finland, if possible. Of course, it never replaces physical presence, which Mr Kiljunen here was very attentive to, but it may be that if anyone wants to attend a small meeting 900 km away, it can be done remotely with modern technology. In my opinion, this serves just the practical purpose of flexibility, which Parliament in general should take more account of in the legislation, that we sometimes go through the practical problems of companies and people to decisions rather than through organisations. In that sense, I feel that this is a much bigger question in principle than that of the government itself. After all, these are fixed - term laws, and after that and during this period, when these are in force, some thought could be given to this. At least I'd like to attend a partner meeting in Utsjoki, but it's 800 kilometres away, so I'm not going on a three-day trip — they're nice trips — but I don't want to leave just because of the meeting, so I'm going to have to have other interests. Then there is this sort of small detail, to which reference was made here, the chairman of the committee specifically, that now that there is this sort of situation on top, then immediately need to make such laws that serve that practice. There are a lot of hunters who are already worried about how they're gonna shoot a bear sign and a deer mark, so now we don't have to worry about them, that's okay, and next fall's gonna be quiet. These are big things for a lot of people, even though they can be a little smiley little nuances for us. At least I personally feel that this government proposal is good and, of course, it went through unanimously in committee in this form as well.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u33	Mr President! I do not want to prolong it any further, but Mr Eestilä raised a very important point about the possibilities of teleworking. When we have the unanimous statement from the sparsely populated rural parliamentary group that state administration posts that come open will see bindingness, seat independence or the possibility of multi-spatiality whenever the office is opened, I think that in this situation we will see very well what work we can actually do at a distance in the state administration. Not all work can be done, and it will be possible to open the offices of the state administration so that they can be received from different parts of Finland. This is a very important regional policy issue. Not all wisdom will then be in Helsinki.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u34	Mr President! I heard my name several times in several speeches, and we considered this possibility of remote participation. I too do not want to be over-active, that is to say that there is no possibility of remote participation. I can well imagine that in rural areas there may be situations at hunting clubs' meetings or similar meetings, that it makes sense to be able to participate further. Summer cottagers, for example, may not be in the region during winter or autumn, but they know what is at stake, and that is a remote possibility. This was more than a warning that we would not be taking as the main rule that we are only at a distance and at a distance taking part in various events, because there must be room for social communication and we must encourage people to have a relationship with each other. This would be more a word of warning, but it is natural that it is also possible when it is meaningful for other human communication and activities.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u35	Mr President! If allowed, then a little off the subject itself, but still in it, that this telework is interesting, and Mr Kiljunen is quite right that if, in a way, the distance between people is too long, then not all the technical equipment will bring the mimikasia or anything else that the meetings are intended to do. But I would like to extend this so that today, in the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry, when we heard experts from a distance, as many other committees do, I do feel that we need to know little about moving this legislation elsewhere. In my opinion, it might be a very good practice for experts, when they have sufficient visual and audio access, to be able to make statements at a distance. Why on earth should they all come here? It's probably nice trips, but here are some good elements to assess a few other things, that can a little bit of flexibility be put on. But when I myself did the work of a congressman at a distance, I must say that if I was not quite aware of it before, I was not equal after that distance work. This work is exactly the kind of work that is very difficult to handle remotely. It calls for certain contacts and, as it were, for negotiations and different kinds of corridor meetings, and that is at the heart of this work. This work cannot be carried out at a distance, it is my own experience, and that is actually why I came here, with caution of course, then we will be at the heart of the matter. In that sense, Mr Kiljunen is right to say that for something this may sometimes apply temporarily, for something it fits perfectly and for something it does not fit very much. A remote connection never replaces this physical presence and the atmosphere of negotiation, it can't be smelled 500 kilometres away.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u36	Mr President! To this very briefly, I think that Mr Eestilä has put this forward in a fine way. Rarely populated Finland, Finland with long distances — here, if there is also a need to recognise a certain type of remote participation. He took a good example of what it could mean in rural areas, in sparsely populated areas, in remote Finland, precisely that one can meet in the locality and get an expert presentation remotely there. In other words, a top expert from the capital region or an expert from somewhere else very distant might be able to give the lecture there, and he does not have to travel very, very far, and yet the communicative space works so that the participants can have a conversation with this remote participant, and it also enables many top experts who refuse to participate because of their distance to make a genuine contribution to the more remote corners of sparsely populated Finland.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u37	For the referral debate, item 5 of the order of business will be presented. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance, to which other committees may deliver an opinion by 12 May 2020 at the latest. The debate and discussion were held earlier today at the plenary session on 21 April 2020. The debate will continue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u38	Mr President! We will deal with the budgetary plan for the coming years in very exceptional circumstances. The international spread of corona virus is a serious threat to human health, but it is also a major threat to our economy, jobs and businesses every day. As early as spring, debt-taking will increase to more than EUR 12 billion, even though we are at the very beginning of this crisis. It is clear that the corona virus will also have a very serious impact on our economy and jobs. All signs show that the crisis is becoming a much more serious shock to the economy than the financial crisis ten years ago. In its forecast, the IMF estimates that the global economy will fall by 3% this year, which is clearly more than ten years ago. The IMF has compared the corona crisis to being as serious as the Great Depression of the 1930s. It also gives us a scale for this debate. The Korona virus has caused an economic shock that no company has been able to anticipate. Many companies are in serious difficulties at the moment. Almost 450,000 Finns already participate in the Yt negotiations. Without significant action, there will be a large wave of bankruptcy and mass unemployment. That is why action is already needed. Instead of complex applications, effective and direct action is needed to help businesses right away in this situation. We have already argued a month ago that VAT paid by companies in the early part of the year could be refunded on application to companies to deal with the acute cash crisis. It is a good thing that today my Finance Minister, Mr Kulmun, has now said that he will welcome this. In other words, this matter is now quickly in order and direct support to companies for a serious situation. Mr. Speaker! The budgetary plan gives a gloomy picture of the following years. Debt take-up is growing dramatically: public debt will increase by EUR 60 billion by 2024. In 24 years, Finland’s structural government deficit will amount to around -3.7% of GDP, i.e. nearly EUR 10 billion. At the moment, our economy is very vulnerable to such a violent crisis that we are now in the midst of. We do not now have buffers for worse times in the economy, which other Nordic countries, for example, have, but in practice, all the measures that are now being taken will significantly increase debt-taking to younger generations. They are now threatened with a very heavy bill, in addition to an annual increase of around EUR 500 million in care costs, for example. This, too, seems to me to be a good thing to remember in this Chamber. Mr. Speaker! The government has postponed making significant decisions to the autumn budget debate. There are now quite a lot of expectations about how this country's economic policy will be changed. To that end, I would like to make a few comments: First of all, the necessary stimulus to save jobs must be continued in order to overcome the worst of the crisis, to avoid a wave of corporate bankruptcy and to save people's jobs. Here we have put forward concrete measures to the government, such as the return of VAT to businesses. Secondly, Mr President, at the same time, we urgently need to start renovating Finland's public finances. Last spring's Government Programme is now in the wastebasket, because the government's lax economic policy has now dropped its base. The Government Programme must be completely rewritten on a realistic basis. Thirdly, Mr President, the employment measures that the government has been waiting for for more than a year must be taken without delay. There is an urgent need to reform social security, to promote local reconciliation in order to achieve a high level of employment, without which the financial base of our society will fail. Mr. Speaker! Here's a meal for the country's government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u39	Mr President! We have in our hands a budgetary plan that will present the situation of the Finnish economy for about five years from now. However, it is not exhaustive or final, but it is obvious at this point that, just as the Minister of Finance has already said, this big picture of public finances must return to the autumn budget debate. At this point, the drop in GDP is projected from 5.5% to 13%, and in order to get an accurate picture, a more accurate estimate will have to be made later. However, the big picture of the economy must be clear despite the closure and fog of the corona. When the crisis began, Finland was not yet in balance with public finances; we were only on our way there. On the basis of the Government Programme, the objective is to raise the employment rate to 75%, to make critical structural reforms — I could mention social and family leave reforms — and to achieve a sustainable basis in 2024. We were already well on track before this black swan called the corona virus. The financial damage of Korona will also be considerable for Finland. That is why the welcome of society is also exceptional at this point, as we have seen from the price tag for amending budgets. We must prevent a large-scale wave of company bankruptcy and the resulting high unemployment. As the government receives an interest-free loan, unlike the people in Finland, it must therefore bear a large part of this crisis financially as well, and this is also the case at this point. International trade in Finland has also dried up. Even if the goods are allowed to move, the logistics has changed. For Finland, the situation is rather gloomy, as we have always benefited from globalisation so far. We should not now turn our backs on the EU internal market, as I have heard spoken in this Chamber, but, for the sake of security of supply alone, Europe should be our friend at this point. The fiscal bias in the public sector has started as the population pyramid is distorted and is now colliding into a new pit with the interest rate. Close health care is now facing new challenges. It is clear that in the 2020s there will be enough work to do in this Chamber too, as the objective must be to get rid of debts and healthy public finances, including the finances of municipalities, before the next generations. This cannot be put to the next generation; the plan must be clear. It is essential that the interest rate is rapidly overcome and that the ongoing investments are not blocked. This is an economic and health crisis. It is also clear that the big picture of the Finnish economy must be rewritten together and the government programme must be redesigned. Finland lives on exports, which is why the interest rate efforts of other countries are also important for our success. However, it is time for an acute crisis. Mr President! The economy and health are visible, but the importance of knowledge is more difficult to recognise. We must now invest heavily in research, development and innovation and education, so that we can get Finland to make an effort when the corona virus subsides and the springboard is already visible. People should be able to work at it and be able to do it from one home to another. Finland's exports must be made to take the lead in the first countries, and the productivity of work must be improved. It is now a good opportunity to do so, with almost EUR 2 billion in enterprise aid in the event of a crisis. I'm sure the world will be different once we've survived the pandemic. The increase in poverty, exclusion and participation of young people in families with children must be prevented, and the lessons of the 1990s must therefore be carefully taken into account. For example, even now, layoffs and layoffs hit families hardest, who depend on one adult to make a living. Fortunately, a backrest has already been reserved for these matters, as people's collapse in their livelihood is facilitated by an amending budget of more than EUR 1 billion. Entrepreneurs who have lost their livelihood have also been included in social security, as we heard today. Finland is lucky that we have been building on strong security of supply since our independence. The native is now literally more expensive than gold.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u40	Mr President! Korona has stopped us all in many ways. We have learned that nothing is self-evident. There are things in life that we can't control. They must be taken up, tackled together the challenges they pose and looked forward with courage. We are now dealing with the budgetary plan for the coming years, which are partly covered by fog. The plan leaves a lot of things open. I would like to thank the government for its courageous efforts in the midst of all the uncertainty. When no one actually owns the final truth, the best knowledge has been done before this unpredictable pandemic. It is therefore important that we rely on our best administration in the world and on different sources of government to put together a constantly changing picture of the situation. Let's build a trust society together. Interest and exceptional circumstances will continue to affect our society for a long time. The Korona virus has led to a deep recession in the international economy, disruption of production and a sharp decline in demand. Our gross national product is shrinking strongly this year. Employment is deteriorating, unemployment and lay-offs are increasing. The economic policy cornerstone of the Government Programme is increasing well-being in society. This is, of course, a challenge for the balance of public finances. In the autumn, we will have to see what we can afford in the end and what good plans we will have to wait for better time. In this case, this budgetary plan will also be specified. The hallmark of a civilised state is that, in the midst of everything, we take care of the weakest. Let us not forget children, young people, families, disabled people and the elderly. Act on the basis of the Constitution and human rights in everything. Action is now needed to boost, revitalise and sustain employment. Our society is going to be heavily indebted when it's the only thing that's going to help. There is an opportunity for such large subsidies and recovery measures, because in the previous period Finland’s economy was already in quite good shape with a responsible policy. We are now facing years of reconstruction in which our responsibility is measured. We can make Finland rise by putting the economy in order, overcoming unemployment and taking care of the weakest, such as the Minister of Finance. My angulation was clearly photographed. From the deep recession ahead, we will only rise with cooperation. We need structural reforms, which are the most urgent. While we're tightening the purse cords, it's our job to take care of people's basic security. After the crisis, services and safety nets must be put in sustainable shape. There is also a need to invest in mental health and education. The 2019 Youth Barometer promises us good results. It says that young people are enthusiastic about doing meaningful work and trying. On Thursday, the Young Entrepreneurship of the Year will be selected in the Uska try-out finale. We must courageously build an entrepreneurial-friendly and family-friendly Finland in which young people can take responsibility and try, they dare also commit, establish a family and have children. Our important task is also to eliminate the poverty of families with children. That's where we have to turn all the stones. We should also pick up all children and young people who are at risk of falling. If the disease situation permits, I would welcome children to attend school before the summer so that those at risk of falling can be picked up and supported before the summer break. Even a short period of schooling would also make it easier for families to be in trouble. Mr President! This will not be the last pandemic or other crisis in the global world. We've got to take care of him.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u41	Mr President! So far, Finland has succeeded in restricting the reckless spread of the corona virus epidemic with its vigorous first steps. By doing so, we aim to ensure that the health care carrying capacity is sufficient to secure the necessary services for all. We've been protecting life. Unfortunately, the corona has claimed lives, but so far we have survived better than many other countries. Much thanks are due to the social and health care staff and to all those who are working on the problems caused by the interest rate, and also to the citizens, because the instructions of the government and the THL have been well followed. However, the restrictions and measures imposed by the interest rate have been burdensome for the entire economy of the state and municipalities, and especially for all Finns and residents of Finland whose livelihood and daily life have been significantly affected. In addition to the restrictive measures, the Finnish Government has sought to ensure that no one is faced with an unreasonable situation, but that companies, municipalities and individuals are supported in coping with this time. Mr President! The budgetary plan for 2021-24 is being drawn up in the midst of major uncertainties. It is not just a matter of uncertainty about Finland, it is a matter of global concern. This will have a major impact on Finland, as our country's employment and economy are strongly based on exports. This presents its own challenge to the post-column period and to the budgetary plan. That is why it is very important that we deal with the corona in such a way that businesses and businesses and workers working there are able to deal with the minimum damage to the corona time. There are thousands of sole entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises in Finland who need our stronger support. I myself have received many messages from entrepreneurs and companies in South Karelia, whose situation is very uncertain. Concerns about the loss of cash flow, farm costs and wages, as well as uncertainty about possible forms of support and the future of the company and its employees are worrying. This week there has been extensive news about who received support from Business Finland, among others, in the early stages of the crisis. Some beneficiaries do not inspire trust or a sense of justice. For this reason, it is important that Business Finland's criteria be changed to support the survival of the period of the interest rate. It must support businesses in this difficult time. It was a good thing to hear from Minister Lintilä today that the criteria will be changed in the right direction, including, hopefully, that the aid will be directed primarily at companies rather than consulting firms. Mr President! There has been a tough debate in the Chamber today on the part of the opposition, which has called for the extension and extension of free secondary education to the future or has not been supported at all. This is really confusing, because young people themselves demand this, both the OAJ and the business world, as well as many economists and researchers. It is precisely an investment in the future, in young people and in employment, in changes in the structures of working life, which call for stronger and more accurate skills. We know that good employment will be the main instrument for strengthening and improving the economy. The only way to do this is to provide our companies with skilled and well-being labour. This is why it is absolutely essential to invest in knowledge. The extension of free upper secondary education is part of this whole, which is a historical reform and a leap in the level of competence in Finland. Mr President! There is great uncertainty about what the interest rate will do to local government finances and people’s well-being, how to cope with the future. The municipalities have made many big changes to daily life on a fast schedule. As a general rule, education has been transferred to distance education, libraries and theatres have been closed down for the time being, sports services are provided at a tailor-made distance and youth work is carried out at a distance and with new types of activities. New operating models have been introduced and will be developed. The municipalities have also taken the digital leap. There is great concern about what happens after the corona. In municipalities, the situation of companies is uncertain, which also affects local government finances. The municipalities have laid off people and laid off people, which is why
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u42	Mr President! The central group president here today told us that the spending limits were being held in a state of uncertainty. I find it rather worrying that the group president of the centre said that the mood of the spending limits was unclear. I understand that there are many things that concern you, and not everything you can know, none of us is a fortune teller, but of course we here in the opposition and in the Finns of Peru would like to see that there is not a certain lack of control and control now. Of course, these masquerades and corporate support freaks do speak it their own language, that maybe no one has the right crisis management on their shoulder. But from this document of the budgetary plan, I will take up certain points and make a speech. This climate fund. There are good things here too, if you think about the development and maintenance of the transport network, a very good thing. But in a few years' time there will be 1.2 million here: ‘A bigger world than Finland’. So this is some kind of advertising campaign? What is this, 1.2 million for something... I do not understand why we need to be larger in the world. Can't we be the size we are? Or is it really the intention that we take, as we have, for example, the EU's emissions agreement, more to bear than other countries? Obviously, this means that, in the same way as today, for example, this funding from the WHO and this EU contribution, which is expected to rise by half a billion in the coming spending limits period, I have not heard that there is a great deal of concern about this. Today I was looking at the good news that the price of oil has fallen, and this can be seen in people's tanks when people are really driving a lot at the moment. That, as we have seen, has been an excellent means of transport during the corona, because we are trying to avoid those close contacts. True, only now has the government really decided to increase the fuel tax in the summer, and it will add 250 million to the government's income, and this price reduction, which could possibly come to the consumers, so that their everyday life can be easier to move there, will be lost to the wind. That is why I propose that the government quickly withdraws this completely absurd increase. Here, the Greens and the Left expressed much of the fact that Finland’s future lies in the financing of the climate, which seems to be just like ‘the larger world of Finland’, which means nothing at all to me at least. I don't understand it. There was talk of cycling and public transport. As I said, public transport is good and road infrastructure funding and all this kind of train tracks are all good projects, but then when we have this kind of situation, then we should remember that we have to be able to drive cars and go by car at work, and of course companies also run on wheels, we can't stop it now. I don’t think someone rides a bike and pulls a truck load behind them — it can be quite a funny sight. Something tells me this conversation isn't what it is this day. We have people laid off, unemployed, they don't even have money for food, mortgages, electricity bills, and someone here is talking about some kind of cycling and things like this. I'm sure the viewers feel a little like they're in this world right now, or is that someone recording last year before the corona? As far as municipalities are concerned, we have long been waiting for help and salvation, and now I look forward to the distribution of that billion-dollar prize. For example, in my hometown Hyvinkää has had challenges in the past with the balancing that we have started to do, and now the corona brings a huge amount of additional challenges to this, and we still do not know what that is. We should start preparing the budget, and we should be preparing for next year, just as things are already going through in this house, and we lack the concretes that are being distributed and to which municipalities and on what basis and on what basis and with what relief and others will come. They are now expected with great enthusiasm in the municipalities, and I really hope that they will soon come. A lot has been said today about business support, and it is a very good thing that companies are being supported. At the moment, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we also have amendments to bankruptcy legislation and then to enforcement, and they are also related to companies and will certainly come this week. But I am surprised that the Director General of Business Finland says that everything is in order and that there are clear processes. Somehow he may not have understood that this is not just a question of processes, that is, is it there? [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u43	Honorable Mr. Speaker! The Corona virus has really brought the economy to a recession. Production has been disrupted and demand has declined dramatically. Thus, in the independent forecast of the Ministry of Finance, GDP is estimated to decrease by 5.5% this year, and this forecast also assumes that the restrictions will last for three months. In addition, the negative impact of the corona virus is expected to decline and the economy will recover rapidly towards the end of 2020. Each extra day of current restrictions is estimated to cost hundreds of millions and each week billions. It is important that the restrictions are not maintained for too long. On the other hand, premature lifting of restrictions can lead to rapid growth in infection and new restrictions. All decisions must be based on researched information and decisions must be taken at the right time. Right now, the situation is very new for everyone that we cannot wait for the final consensus. We use the best available information, but of course we also have to rely on some uncertain forecasts. However, decisions must be taken courageously. President! I think it is absolutely right that we have decided to increase our sovereign debt by billions in order to get Finland out of the crisis with minimal human and financial damage. At the same time, however, I am aware of how challenging the debt is to be reduced, and that time is still ahead. Finland has already had a state of emergency — or only — for five weeks. We have seen how restrictive measures have helped to combat the spread of the virus. At the same time, we have seen how restrictive measures have also affected the economy. Our really difficult task is to stay in the chosen line at the same time and be ready to react quickly when a better or more sensible way is found. The budgetary plan should be able to talk about the future. We need an exceptionally good plan to emerge from this crisis and we need it as quickly as possible. However, in the coming weeks there seems to be still uncertainty. President! Maybe two more comments on today's discussions. I would like to thank Minister Lintilä, who has launched a rapid and accurate study of whether the business subsidies currently being distributed by Business Finland will target where they belong. It is in everyone's interest that we do not drive a business field into pecking each other, which, of course, serves no one. But we've got to get the goofy ones out of there. Secondly, it would be wise for the restaurant sector in particular to be looked at again. Perhaps there are too many messages now that the sector is not getting enough help. In particular, I would like the criteria to be reviewed. Prior to the interest rate, solvency is not an unambiguous issue because the conditions and investments of companies have also affected the financial balance of companies. President! However, every day brings us closer to overcoming the crisis. Better times are bound to come.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u44	Mr President! There is a budgetary plan for the coming years, and when this situation is mirrored just one year ago, the difference is considerable. Even at the beginning of the parliamentary term, the government presented substantial expenditure increases, which were to be financed with an increasing employment rate at the time, although very comprehensive and, at least, concrete measures were not put forward at the time. The starting point then was the growth of the economy and employment, which, in my opinion, was already the wrong starting point, because the world economy had been growing for a long time. In the United States, at least in modern times, there had been a record boom of more than 11 years, and at least against this background the economic downturn, or even the crisis, was more likely to come. Now this economic bubble broke out only when triggered by such an external epidemic. The starting point of the Government Programme was therefore largely wishful thinking, even even dangerous after a long period of high economic growth, and especially in a situation where Finland's growth had been dragging exceptionally long since this 2008 financial crisis. In fact, we only had a few to three years of clearer growth, and we were on a rather thin footing. Now, at the latest, this basis for the development of public finances is largely gone. This means focusing on the necessary review of the promises made and then on a clearly growing public deficit. This year, the debt ratio in relation to GDP will turn to sharp growth, rising by nearly 10 percentage points rapidly to close to 70% and then possibly to 80% and more. Moreover, conditional fiscal responsibilities, and in particular the substantial increase in guarantees, represent a risk to our economy. The massive triggering of these liabilities would further increase public expenditure and exacerbate this debt ratio and its growth. The difficult situation of local government finances also has to be noted. As a result of the economic crisis created by the Corona virus, the crisis in the euro area and its banks is very possible, even likely. The French banks have more than EUR 300 billion in claims from Italy. Germany and Spain also have a large number of claims. No wonder heavy pressure has been put on from different directions to increase solidarity. So I am not talking about health solidarity, I am talking about economic solidarity. You have to find out that all the loose money has its takers. There are also no exclusions from the wider economic system or from exceptional events. The risk is, for example, the reduction in credit ratings for corporate debt securities, including write-downs, and the second wave of this to the real economy, which is now also evident from these supply chain disruptions for the Finnish industry. It should also be noted that many developing countries face major payment difficulties. There are also major questions about food safety, pharmaceutical safety and so on. These can all have major effects. For a long time, several years, the activities of the central banks have been very exceptional, unconventional, and now, in the midst of all of this, we are going to get even bigger. For example, the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States (FED)’s balance sheet is forecast to grow to the $9,000 billion already in the near future, which is quite staggering, more than three times the previous situation. Therefore, expenditure must be prioritised, hazardous guarantee liabilities must be avoided, stress tests must be carried out — at least to the extent possible — for unforeseen and exceptional situations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u45	Mr President! Public finances are now being shaken in ways that none of us would have expected until a year ago. In order to overcome the crisis and return to a time of sustainable growth as soon as possible, we must avoid the mistakes that have been made in previous economic crises. We cannot afford to lose a single person, family, child or youth because we failed to take care of them. We must strengthen the safety nets of society so that the people most affected by this crisis are not excluded. It would have far-reaching consequences, the price of which we would still be paying long after this crisis, and the price could not even be measured entirely with money. According to the current estimate by the Ministry of Finance, Finland's economy will shrink by 5.5 per cent this year. This is influenced, among other things, by the disruptions in global production chains, the uncertainty surrounding the duration of the pandemic and the restrictions on movement and assembly that have now been introduced due to the interest rate. In order to return to normal, it is clear that we must first win the battle against the corona. This government has reacted quickly by protecting risk groups and securing the capacity of health care. Funding will be increased for both testing and health care protective equipment. In many respects, we are in a better position than other countries and have made timely decisions. Korona has not yet been defeated, but I have a strong credit that we Finns will get through this too. Mr President! We take more debt and we increase public spending, but with the right focus. I mean, with the right focus — you have to be able to take care of it. In this way, we can also take care of the conditions for health care, prevent waves of bankruptcies in healthy businesses and respond to the needs of people now in need. Economic experts have considered the government’s efforts to support the economy to be sensible. This is definitely not the time to operate. At worst, by postponing investment, we would cut off our own branch and weaken the conditions for economic growth after a period of crisis. Even as a municipal decision-maker, I am very concerned about how municipalities will cope with the corona when the challenges were already met. Local government finances will be very weak as tax revenues decline and additional expenditure increases. However, the government is aware of the serious situation. The municipalities are now receiving first aid in the form of a tax compensation of EUR 547 million, and the government is in the process of deciding in May on the following measures, which will amount to at least EUR 1 billion. The purpose of the aid is to enable basic municipal services to be maintained during the crisis and even after the need for help and support in families is increasing. In late summer, the Government has prepared to review the need for municipal support once the picture of the situation begins to become clearer. This is a strong message from the government that municipalities will be supported. Now, if you ever have to take care of children and young people.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u46	Mr President! Today we've been living under exceptional circumstances for over a month. For the last few days we have also acted in this house with quite extraordinary measures. There have been many attempts to adapt the public, very bureaucratic system to the prevailing conditions. It has called for rapid decision-making and temporary legislative changes as well as a rapid response to changing situational scenarios. At the same time, we are constantly learning more about the virus itself, the plague that caused all of this. Above all, the current situation has called for parliamentary cooperation and the will to take care of a country called Finland. The government has worked long hours, had to make strong decisions restricting human freedoms, heard daily experts, demands and hopes from different sides, even failed, but who would be completely flawless when the road ahead was just an unknown and foggy one? We will not be able to cope with these exceptional circumstances around the world without a huge amount of work and measures and without a great deal of investment in public finances. We must primarily care for human lives and the sustainability of health care, but at the same time safeguard jobs and businesses. Every avoided bankruptcy and every blocked unemployment is a victory in itself. It must be remembered that as a sufferer, even under these circumstances, there is always a human being. In a world where mobility and assembly are restricted, where global production chains have broken down and uncertainty about the duration of the epidemic is increasing, the economy is naturally suffering significantly. According to the current Ministry of Finance estimates for Finland, the economy will shrink by 5.5 per cent this year. Mr President! We now have two main challenges: protecting groups at risk and safeguarding health care, safeguarding society's functions and curbing the wave of bankruptcy and unemployment. The economy will not recover until the whole epidemic is over. Without the carrying capacity of the economy, health care cannot be organised either. The only way we can deal with the current situation is through substantial additional debt and increased public spending. If we do not now make a decisive policy, the consequences will be extensive and long-term, both for the economy, for employment and for the livelihood of people. This is not the time to talk about fiscal cuts. Especially hard in this situation are the municipalities whose situation was more than challenging already, without corona. The decline in tax revenue and the additional expenditure brought about by the epidemic have put the municipalities in a very tight position. According to the first estimate by the Ministry of Finance, the interest rate crisis will weaken the local government finances by between EUR 1.6 billion and EUR 2 billion this year. Municipalities therefore need a comprehensive and long-term support package to bridge municipalities over difficult times. The most significant measures in support of municipalities will be implemented through the third amending budget in May. Families and children have been tough this spring. A distressing message comes in connection with the nausea of families and children. The bad feeling in families is increasing, and that is a fact that we cannot escape. As a result of ill health, drug use and intimate partner violence have increased. It is now important to take care of all possible support and assistance for families, because additional bills for children who are now untreated can be significant in human and economic terms. That's what we don't want. The well-being and equality of children and young people must be ensured. The Government is therefore committed to implementing a comprehensive programme of measures to mitigate these impacts. The appropriations will be included in the draft amending budget for May. The economic solutions at this moment are to respond to the crisis. I believe that the government has succeeded well in this under circumstances in which the assessment of the economic situation is exceptionally uncertain. Once again, the welfare state has proved its worth during the interest-bearing epidemic. In order to overcome this crisis and its economic effects in a sustainable way, it is essential that we keep everyone involved, and social differences must not break down as a result of the crisis. How we get out of the crisis does not know yet, but the time will come when we do. There is no doubt that there will be a golden age of hindsight. All the same, after the storm, there's always the weather.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u47	Mr President! In my view, the problem with this budgetary plan is that we are not going to really realise that this is going to be a challenging economic future. If, at the moment, there is no real change in the government programme and not in the use of money, then I can only imagine who wants to be in the next governments to fix it. It goes without saying that no investment, such as investment in the fairway sector, which directly brings jobs, should be taken away. But if we are talking about things such as climate battles, now the climate is getting a little better, even when people are not able to consume the whole climate. But even if it does not affect it in any way, the situation is that we cannot really afford to be a climate poser at the moment. And even the extension of the learner does not have the necessary benefit of being forced to twist it at this stage. Mr Kiljunen mentioned that all experts, such as the OAJ, believe that this is a good idea. Of course, the OAJ thinks so, because it is in their interest to get their jobs there. One is children or young people who have demanded this job. What young person who would himself be going there requires secondary education? Why do we have to force it? I understand that young people are demanding these places to be able to study at secondary level, but hardly any young people have demanded that we force everyone to do so. I can tell you that this is going to be a shocking show while young people are being pushed into it who are not necessarily willing to go, because no one really learns anything by force. Well, then let's get to the point that we can see here too, which I think should be different, with this business support thing. There's a terrible and terrible explanation going on right now. There's a lot of things fucked up. I'm not really going to understand that all this time, it's going to come down here and they're going to make excuses for all that bullshit. I have learned in my life that when people understand to make a mistake, it will be much better corrected by admitting those mistakes than by the fact that the guys are shouting in the back “Hey, well tuned, there is no need.” Or now let's look at these companies, which even the Evening Sanomat listed, which have received 100,000. There are terrible — I individually pick up firms — incomprehensible readings. Under all conditions, such companies should not even be allowed to do so. In the last three years every year, 100,000 beats, and in one year, a ton of profit. The company has been completely bankrupt in the first place. It's not the first thing Goog-leen... In half a minute, as a handler, I would have abandoned it when I Googled the company's financial records and made sure that no, it's going to be a mess, and an abandoned stamp on it. It now received EUR 100000 of aid. I can't believe it. I'm gonna have to press the government to call these off and go over them again. Otherwise, it's really going to be a crazy amount of money. A small sample of my own will immediately know one million euros that has been lost, let alone that someone will actually start digging into it. This money of ours will not really be enough for this laxity. That's for sure. Support for restaurants, support for restaurants, where is it?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u48	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u49	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u50	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u51	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u52	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u53	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u54	Mr President! The Government's report on the budgetary plan for 2021-24 is, as we can say, an incomparable report. According to the most optimistic forecast of the Ministry of Finance, Finland's economy is therefore shrinking by 5.5 per cent this year. As a result of the crisis, the budgetary plan for the coming years will have no spending limits for this year. For example, the financing of businesses that has been mentioned here today, including those that have already spoken, comes from outside the framework. In 2021, we will return to the framework. Efforts are being made to curb the impact on the economy. However, there have been some uncertainties regarding the granting of Business Finland support. On the basis of the information available to the public, the aid has been granted to companies whose access to the lists can be genuinely amazed. The sense of justice of many companies, including citizens, is being put to the test. Minister Lintilä told me here that BF crisis funding was the fastest way to get the money moving. I'm sure that's how it was. However, the requirement for the development of a company required by the aid has already been mentioned in this Chamber in connection with the allocation then a couple of weeks ago. At the time, the minister responsible stated that this demand for development must be wide-ranging; this money must also be able to be used for survival. This is at least what I heard when government ministers told me. Well, today we have heard that tomorrow we will then relax this obligation to develop and seek new solutions. I have to ask the awkward question about what has been done during this intermission. So it has been a couple of weeks since funding was granted and the parliamentary debate on the matter, and now these humbug companies have appeared on the lists of beneficiaries. It's a place for steel. The previous speaker spoke about this refund of VAT to businesses. The Coalition Party has argued that this would be a good tool in this situation, and in today's debate also the Minister for Finance. My corner touched on this issue, and it is a good idea that this issue should be clarified and taken forward quickly. Mr President! The SDP's speech wondered about the opposition's willingness to rewrite the government programme. It's worth writing, and the government has to do it all by itself. The situation has changed completely since the beginning of the reign. In fact, this is also stated in the paper before us. It states: ‘The government is committed to reviewing the Government Programme’s measures, which would jeopardise the achievement of the objectives Well, this is what's happening. There's no doubt about it anymore. Do you think other government parties other than the Centre have read this? Local government finances, which are also part of public finances, are deteriorating. The cores of the services must now be secured. Yes, it is now necessary to assess new expenditure with a new extract. Of course, at some point there will also be a need for a recovery policy. Mr President! However, the government is making new spending, for example, on extending compulsory education to secondary education for all. It's an important thing in itself — you have to take care of the pupkaka. However, in a changed situation, I believe that it is justified to allocate support to those who genuinely need it, i.e. tailor-made models, more resources. As a member of the education sector itself, I would also point out that funding on the educational side is often a zero-sum game. When you invest in something, it's gone. It is now important to maintain the current good level of basic education by all means. That is a hard enough target for the years ahead.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u55	Mr President! In the early months of the spending limits debate, the Government has decided on the draft amending budget for 2020 and the budgetary plan for 2021 to 2024. For an understandable reason, the main focus of the dispute is on acute crisis response, and in this respect implementation is already largely in the second amending budget for 2020. The main focus is on health care and securing the resources of public authorities, supporting businesses and securing people's livelihoods. In the first and second amending budgets, expenditure increases of a decision-making nature have been made for a significant amount of EUR 4.1 billion. The Government is committed to securing the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond this crisis with minimal human and financial damage. With these decisions, the Government invests in people’s health, livelihoods, improving the situation in municipalities, business, rural business, culture and physical activity. In addition to the decisions already taken, the government is preparing measures to support the rapid recovery of the economy in order to cope with the crisis through an amending budget in May. Mr President! The budgetary plan for 2021 to 2024 is based on the previous plan adopted in autumn 2020 and will continue the implementation of the Government Programme as agreed. In this current situation, in which we live in the midst of an unforeseeable crisis, no one has a crystal ball in use, and that is why the assessment of the economic situation is exceptionally uncertain. The government will identify measures to strengthen the sustainability and employment of public finances, taking into account changes in the economic environment. The overall economic policy framework is set out in the budget debate in August 2020. The strengthening of the sustainability of public finances will be implemented in a way that ensures the services and benefits of the welfare state and their sustainable financing. The Government is committed to sharing the burden of the crisis in a socially and economically just and ecologically sustainable way and fairly between generations. Mr President! The effects of the interest rate are felt in all sectors and everywhere. Especially in municipalities, the situation is challenging. Although the government increased the funding of municipalities by around EUR 1 billion in the early part of the year, it is not enough to cover the additional costs and costs of the interest rate. As a result of the corona crisis, municipalities have faced significant financial difficulties. As a first step in a crisis situation, municipalities' tax losses in 2020 will be compensated for by EUR 547 million. The Government is also preparing a support package for the May Draft Amending Budget to facilitate the situation caused by the interest rate. The aid amounts to at least EUR 1 billion. This aid package consists of four points: aid to medical districts, state aid for state aid, discretionary increases in state aid and changes in corporation tax. The situation of municipalities will also be considered in the August budget debate. Mr President! During the spending limits period, the Government has decided to improve new, partly fixed-term and partly permanent, additional investments. For example, these account for around EUR 100 million in 2021. As a nurse who has worked for a long time and who is very well aware of the current state of care for the elderly, I am particularly pleased about one thing in the budgetary plan. The financial impact of the Government proposal on the dimensioning of care staff in the Elderly Services Act has been included in the plan. The increase in the size of the nursing staff has not been of any kind to the government, but this measure is also an expression of the government's humanity and determination. To cover the financial impact of the bill, the central government shares of municipalities will be increased over the EUR 70 million funding already included in the October spending limits decision by nearly EUR 140 million at the 2023 level and by nearly EUR 200 million at the 2024 level. The Government is also well aware of the challenges posed by the adequacy of medical staff, and in the future it will be important to allocate a total increase of over EUR 116 million in the period 2021 to 2024 in order to increase the training of local care workers. Trained medical staff
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u56	Mr President! No one wished for the interest-rate crisis, and no one could have fully prepared for it. Now we are living in the reality of the fact that a friend of the welfare state is trying to increase the carrying capacity of public finances, especially in good times, because in bad times a small country can only have a limited impact. Finland’s public finances were unsustainable and headed in the wrong direction even before this crisis. Recently, in the public debate, the expenditure side of the government programme has become irresponsible as a result of the current crisis. Fewer people admit that the government program was built on the sand a year ago. I'm not just talking about Prime Minister Marin, I'm talking about quicksand. The government promised extra spending with a big hand, and the money had to be taken from the taxpayers and from the state. The general government deficit was over EUR 5 billion at the end of the spending limits period without interest rate. After this year, every year until 24, the deficit amounts to EUR 10 billion — EUR 10 billion. When the others do, so do we. The problem is that the countries to which the Finnish Government is happy to compare Finland, such as Sweden and Germany, differ from us in two essential respects: in these countries, the public finances were well in surplus for years. There had been a collection of funds for a bad day, unlike ours. The second point is that both the debt ratio and the sustainability gap in these countries were also declining for the future in the 2020s. In Finland, both were alarmingly rising without a corona. Finland is on an alarming journey to become a weak euro country. The last ten years were not enough to recover from the financial crisis; now we are on our way down. The previous peak of GDP per capita was 12 years ago, and with these forecasts it will be again achieved in about 6 years. This means that Finland has lived 18 years without an increase in living standards. Finland is impoverished. The government has not been in a hurry to look at its previous economic policy in line with Finland's carrying capacity, and even worse: it has no rush to make room in Finland for the future and growth. Mr President! Good government, it is irresponsible to bring to Parliament a budgetary plan and an additional budget that does not present any structural measures for the future. The regional government is not eligible for responsible restructuring. If anyone thinks that Finland will rise or even Finland's social welfare will rise in the provinces, he will live in a post-truth period. The population is ageing, and in ten years' time there will be no more than three provinces in Finland where more children are born than older people die, and without immigration there would be zero such provinces in Finland. We therefore need real structural reforms. There are three: labour market reform, social security reform and tax reform. Labour market reform is based on the fact that every employer, small and large, organised or unorganised, must have a lower threshold to provide people with work, even small, part-time. Social security reform should mean that a person can rely on the basic security of the welfare state, no matter what happens in life, but at the same time he has the incentive to take action even on the first day of unemployment, and these two conditions must be fulfilled. Tax reform is based on a substantial reduction in taxes on employment and risk-taking. It is also the only way to make room for growth, circular economy and, most importantly, innovation. This deficit cannot be bridged by tax increases or interest payments. That would be the surest way to stop doing anything else in this country. I don't think any of us want to live in the future,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u57	Mr President! Very familiar medicines from the right side of the Chamber now in this debate this evening have come. The budgetary plan is now being handled well and in historically exceptional circumstances from the point of view of both the economy and the Finnish welfare society. The economy is extremely hard in terms of interest rate restrictions, disruption of global production chains and uncertainty about the duration of the epidemic. It is clear that the economy will not recover properly until the epidemic is resolved. Perhaps it is also good to look at the history of past economic crises in this situation, how Finland has been put on the path of growth. Now we have to look to the future. This is not the time to talk about fiscal cuts. There is also a great deal of consensus among economic experts on this. Rubber wheels need to be turned and service companies need to be able to open their doors. It is likely that this predictability of the duration of the crisis will continue to make the situation more difficult and will then also make it difficult for economic forecasts to be drawn up. In line with the Government Programme, we now need to invest in stimulating future investment and to export long-term service structures that will have a positive impact on public finances. The increase in compulsory education, social and health reform, experiments in employment, climate work, future infrastructure investments and support for growth and competence in Finland's leading sectors must be pursued decisively in accordance with the Government Programme. The Finnish economy does not rise by cutting. It is quite clear that the government will also have to consider additional income streams. The tax solutions in preparation will probably move a little further, but a long-term road map of sustainable taxation will have to be introduced into the autumn budget debate, as the government plans, which will also involve a substantial reform of energy taxation. It is also important to continue the programme to combat the shadow economy. The balance of local government finances is the foundation of a Finnish welfare society. The amending budgets are in the right direction in order to save local government finances. In view of the May amending budget, we support the local government economy with various mechanisms just over half of what is forecast of the municipal economy to collapse. It is important that the effects of the corona crisis on social and health services are fully compensated and that additional obligations that may arise for future municipalities are also compensated. The state of local government finances, as stated by the Government and mentioned in this JTS, will be re-evaluated together with municipalities in connection with the budget debate. The government has reacted quickly to the situation of companies through support funding. It is only a pity that the decisions that have been made public over the last few days in relation to Business Finland have given rise to wonder. The criteria for decisions and the criteria for aid decisions need to be reviewed as a matter of urgency, and I believe that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy has already taken up this work. Money must be geared to a genuine need and to the security of businesses. Mr President! The Finnish welfare society has shown its strength in this crisis. We share a good view and are working together to build a path to find a way out of the corona crisis and its economic effects. It is important that we keep everyone involved in this situation and ensure that no one is excluded.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u58	Mr President! In many cases, this budgetary plan rightly calls for great uncertainty. However, there is also an increasing degree of certainty — such as the fact that the government’s plan was unrealistic before the corona crisis and that no hippopotamus has disappeared from the living room. On the contrary, the hippies only gain weight and increase. The answer to the crisis in public finances cannot be that only the private sector is shrinking and the state is expanding the living room for hippo. The most urgent problem for the future direction of the economy is at present the situation of SMEs. Contrary to what is claimed in this plan, development funding through Business Finland and Ely Centres will not facilitate the financial situation of companies. On the contrary, financing conditions increase the cost burden on companies. In this way, by the end of the summer at the latest, there will be a mass destruction of companies, resulting in mass unemployment. These significantly reduce the chances of economic recovery. By far the fastest slaughtering of this hippopotamus will take place by retrospectively converting the above-mentioned development funding into direct aid that companies can freely use for their needs, excluding the distribution of profits. Yesterday a written question has been put to Minister Lintilä and he seems to have understood the seriousness of the matter. Mr President! The fight against the acute corona crisis cannot be a reason to ignore and remain silent about the deep structural problems of public finances, because the crisis only exacerbates the existing problems. The sustainability gap is blamed on population ageing, but the bigger problem is that not all of our children and young people are now growing up to be capable of continuous learning and life-management in the workplace. These learning and life management problems will no longer be corrected at the second level. This shrimp is attacked by cancelling the inefficient and costly extension of compulsory education and by transferring and increasing emphasis on preventive services, family support, early childhood education and quality of basic education and child protection. Mr President! The most overweight and still fattening hippopotamus is the non-existent productivity development of public finances. The need for services in the public sector is growing, but it is not responding as it should. We have far too many people to plan, coordinate and manage and far too little to do. The future labour reserve of the private sector is not abroad either, but can be found in the public sector. The local government economy is on its way to a black hole, but it is acknowledged by reference to the autonomy of municipalities and the responsibility for balancing its finances, including through structural reforms. However, the State itself is completely incapable of the required productivity leap. With its own operating expenditure, the state plans to save a huge 180 million — a total of four years — by digitalisation and productivity improvements. So it's not just the state's own operating expenses. Not everything can be done in the future, at least in the same way as before. For example, the Employment and Economic Development Offices (TE Offices) would be responsible for a business- and employer-oriented employment agency that supports quick employment and the most efficient filling of vacancies. Employment and Economic Development Offices are certainly working sincerely and with dedication at the moment, but the result is far from meeting the needs of jobseekers and employers. In employment services, instead of sharing empathy, we need to move towards more productive activities — not, for example, by buying expensive employment services in the private sector or by increasing the number of managers, but by developing our own good activities to be more effective and productive. However, the worst thing about all this is that we are doing inefficient things that should not be done at all, and there are many of them in the government programme. Mr President! After the crisis, business and consumer behaviour will not return to the way they were before the crisis. Public finances also need to change accordingly. Change must start now during the crisis; change cannot be postponed. I recommend to the government that it begins the slaughter of hippos immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u59	Mr President! On 16 April, the Ministry of Finance published its latest economic forecast. It speaks harshly of the fact that the government program is now unhelpably outdated. This year, the government will be in debt of at least EUR 16.6 billion, the economy will fall by at least 5.5% and the employment rate will fall to 71%. Even at the end of the parliamentary term, it is forecast that employment will not suffer before the crisis. The Government Programme had originally been drawn up on the basis of an entirely optimistic picture of the situation. Now the winds of the world economy have blown this frayed house of cards. Last December's review of the VM, before the corona crisis, already revealed a harsh language about its unrealistic nature. Now the facts must be acknowledged and the whole programme rewritten. Right now, people are most desperate for hope, for hope that when the crisis ends, they will get back to work, children in school, employ small businesses in the bread and a new normal everyday life will begin again. Small businesses, and the restaurant sector in particular, urgently need support for this transitional period. If our country's small and medium-sized enterprises are swept away by a large wave of bankruptcy, the backbone of our economy will be broken, which will make it even more difficult to rebuild. So, Mr Government, return the VAT accounts at the beginning of the year and extend direct aid to the restaurant sector. Carrying the systemic risk of the interest rate crisis is not a normal risk to entrepreneurs. Mr President! The Government must bring to Parliament an updated, realistic programme of economic measures and a renewed programme of government, which tells Finns a clear way out of this wretched crisis. Unfortunately, this budgetary plan before us cannot be regarded as any kind of economic plan. It is, in fact, rather a plan to increase public expenditure. It is unfortunate that there has not been a first presentation of balancing measures in this programme. Well, we've been able to handle it, and we've had a lot of talent to decide. Fortunately for our nation, at least ministers of the government of my Kulmun and Lintilä has also stated the facts aloud on the pages of the magazines. We therefore expect good comments to become excellent measures, because at the end of the day the tree is known for its fruits. Mr President! Why does the government continue to stick to its spending policy with claws and teeth, even though its budget rests on nothing? For example, municipalities are spirited and their economies had been driven into a shambles by the government even before the crisis. Now the government is adding further statutory tasks to them on top of all this. The government must abandon all its projects that undermine local government finances, which are financed on weak ice. It cannot be that within a few years a significant proportion of Finnish municipalities will be driven into forced crisis municipalities. Mr President! The social blockade costs us, as a nation, about a billion dollars each week in lost production. The fact that the government does not seem to have a clear road map out of this crisis does not make the situation any easier. The Finnish strategy, which is our way to the future, is at least unclear to me. At least we need an economic balancing programme, broad labour market reforms, an ambitious employment package, social security reform and re-allocation of expenditure. However, when we revive Finland after all of this, for example, large rail and bus projects that genuinely improve competitiveness will have to take the lead in the work of the second basket of government.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u60	Mr President! The effects of the world - possessed coronavirus pandemic have been devastating and surprising to all of us. The more detailed budgetary guidelines will certainly return to their relaxed grip on the corona crisis, but in any event, it seems impossible to prevent Finland's rapid additional debt. On the other hand, this situation requires a more responsible approach from the government in relation to future expenditure increases. Mr President! The government must focus its efforts on measures to control the corona virus epidemic in a sustainable manner, both for health and for the economy. Once it has been done, it is time to allocate society's more limited resources to the reconstruction of Finland, including by significantly reducing expenditure flows outside our country. Common tax resources must be used efficiently for the benefit of Finland and Finns. In practice, such a change of direction requires a complete rewriting of the Government Programme, possibly even on a new government basis. The Government Programme should focus on halting public indebtedness and improving the conditions for private sector activity and employment. Public services financed by taxes collected from the private sector must also be prioritised and the regional government and its bureaucracy should be forgotten. Mr President! However, it is at this point that attention must inevitably be paid to overcoming the corona epidemic. The sooner we manage the epidemic, the less Finns will die and the easier it will be for our economy to get back on its feet. If that is what we want, we will still have the opportunity, with disciplinary measures, to stamp out this very serious epidemic, or at least its first wave. Unfortunately, the government's strategy to get Finland out of the corona crisis is still unclear, as the previous speaker said. The Swedish experiment to achieve mass immunity is far too risky, and Finland should not try to move in the same direction. As many as 185 new corona deaths were reported today in Sweden. The extent to which the majority of the population has received immunity, let alone duration, is currently unknown. Mr President! Since there is often a delay of one or even two weeks from the corona infection to its detection, restrictions should not be lifted rashly and rashly. It would bring us back to square one, stop our national economy again and demand more and more lives. We must learn from the experiences of other countries and closely monitor the impact of the dismantling of restrictions on the disease situation. Hopefully, the government will have the patience to make long-term decisions, and no matter what the restrictions are, testing must in any case be substantially increased and protective equipment deficiencies must be rectified quickly. Mr President! It is only with the vaccine that an epidemic of interest can be resolved once and for all. Finland should therefore be very vigilant in the procurement of vaccines. The delay in vaccinations due to bureaucratic problems would be totally fatal. Finland cannot afford to repeat the tragic mistakes that have been seen recently, especially in the procurement of protective equipment. Mr President! We need to give viable companies a real chance to get over the worst. In connection with the first amending budget of the year, Parliament decided to support companies in difficulty as a result of the interest rate. Unfortunately, the targeting of business subsidies has not been as successful as it should have been. Support amounts of up to EUR 100,000 have been granted to companies that have suffered little or no from the crisis. There are also desk-box companies and consultancy companies with significant expertise, mainly in the preparation of aid applications. This does not seem in any way to be a sustainable investment in the economy. Mr President! The distribution of money on vague grounds has not, at least, been the original purpose of Parliament. The real beneficiaries of the aid are those small enterprises which, under normal conditions, provide genuine added value to society and which have actually suffered from an epidemic. In return, companies supported by tax resources must be responsible for the employment of Finnish unemployed and laid-off persons regardless of the sector. Fair granting and use of subsidies are important both economically and, in particular, for maintaining social morality. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u61	Mr President! In the years 2021 to 24 on the table today, I hope that we are already living after the interest rate, but we know that the interest rate will leave a deep mark on our economy. Even the Minister of Finance in Helsingin Sanom said that with the interest rate there is a bottom-up away from the economy. Normal means will not be enough in the years to come. However, after the interest rate, the rapid recovery of the economy would be vital. Should the government, in this challenging situation, consider leaving the euro as one sensible option? Even before the interest rate, the euro experiment has cost us a great deal of money and, at the same time, the benefits of the euro have been greatly exaggerated over the years. At the very least, an action plan should be drawn up in time for the euro to break down in the coming years. Through its own currency and devaluing veto, Sweden managed to cope better with the financial crisis in 2007-2009 and the debt crisis in 2010-12. Sweden also lacks solidarity in the euro area. Responsibility will be a key issue in the near future. Up to now, the countries of southern and eastern Europe have managed their economies recklessly, at least in comparison with us northern countries. At the moment, the situation in Italy in particular is more than worrying. In his assessment of the situation, European researcher Timo Miettinen gave a detailed analysis of the situation in the Economic and Social magazine: ‘Already shared responsibility should be added to the head of the euro area. “ Which means Italy won't make it. Its economy is not starting to grow because it is competing against Germany and other countries in the same currency. The situation is intolerable for them. The question is: do we want to be making transfers to Italy? Until now, the government has opposed the Eurobonds, but what other options do we have? France already wants Eurobonds to save Italy, and Italy's need will only increase. It is claimed that today it would be about 1000 billion. Probably it's still growing up from there. And Italy is by no means the only country that has handled its affairs badly and will need help — and the current balance sheet of the ECB is EUR 4700 billion. You can't grow it forever, either. Especially if a central bank finds itself in a situation where countries are unable to repay their loans, it will also face a wall. The ECB is rapidly buying sovereign bonds and is already different from the so-called capital key, which restricts the purchase of a country's debt. The finance ministers have just decided that the stability mechanism can grant unconditional loans for interest payments from different countries. Ministers also agreed to increase the European Investment Bank's guarantee mandate and the EUR 100 billion employment fund. There is still at least a common recovery fund for the euro countries, whose size is still open. In addition, there are existing old responsibilities and a bilateral loan to Greece. In the Banking Union, the banks of the Member States raise money for the crisis fund. At its worst, this could lead us to pay through our banks for the failing banks in southern Europe. A new banking crisis is also expected. We've been referred to today as the depression of the '30s. Finland survived the recession in the '30s by two things: first, wages were calculated in the export sector, which is not today, but second, perhaps even more important, was devaluation. Finland moved away from the gold stock among other countries, and the value of the markka in relation to the pound, that is, the currency of the main export country, decreased by 15 per cent, which made a decisive contribution to the increase in demand that has been raised many times here today, namely the competitiveness of exports. The financial crisis in 2007-8 brought the recession of the 30s to a debate. What had history taught us? The economy turned up as early as 2010, and the world did not end up in a deep crisis in the '30s — that is, in the United States and in the rest of the world. In Europe, economic growth halted. The economic contraction caused by the Great Depression was avoided, but the euro left the recovery to be anemic in Europe. Mr President! We are an export dependent country, just like Italy. Therefore, in view of the future post-corona period, we are going to miss the old mark and the benefits it brings, especially in economic recovery and thus in maintaining the growth and demand of the export industry, which is vital to us.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u62	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Finland’s economic path over the next few years does not look bright. The outlook for Finland and the international economy has deteriorated very rapidly in the early part of the year following the outbreak of coronavirus. The massive rescue operation that is taking place has forced the government to take more debt for billions of dollars. Support measures have been necessary, but the bill is greater than anyone would have liked. In addition to support measures, public finances are weakened by reduced tax revenues and rising unemployment expenditure. Only when the worst crisis is over will we know with certainty what our economy is doing. However, it is certain that the national challenges will be of a much larger scale than they were before the pandemic. Measures to improve employment still play a key role in increasing welfare and balancing public finances.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u63	Mr President! Today we are dealing with fiscal frameworks for the coming years, and it must be said that they look very worrying and bad. As I said in the debate that day, the government, acting responsibly, cannot be content with these frameworks for public finances that have been presented for the coming years. According to the Ministry of Finance forecast, public finances in the year 20 to 24 are still well over EUR 9 billion in deficit. They must therefore be changed with decisive and responsible action. One of the key elements of this change will be the success of the government with regard to the management of employment and the ability, as a counterpart, to tackle the growing threat of unemployment. That is why it is essential that our businesses and jobs cope with this acute corona crisis. After all, every tenth attempt does not believe that it will survive the next month, starting now. These companies have lost their total turnover and about one third more than half of their turnover. The fifth is already in payment difficulties. The key question, therefore, is how to increase investment, employment and growth in the economy. Only through them can we manage the obligations of the public authorities in an ageing Finland. The key to this investment, employment and growth is how we succeed with our export industry. The export industry is an important corner bolt in our economy. Our welfare services rely on it, and it is therefore important that we know how to do the right thing with the export industry. Now I am concerned that companies will not get away with this and that will make our country's survival much more difficult. We must therefore ask where the support package required unanimously by the Constitutional Committee and Parliament is in the restaurant and café sector. Is corporate subsidies intended to be divided into areas where the corona crisis has actually affected? Now the public has shown that this has not always happened. Today, information about restaurant support has been leaking to the public that the government is now preparing to do so. The Coalition Party last week presented the first 200 million support package to restaurants, and today Helsingin Sanomat has told us that the government would prepare a 150 million support package for restaurants and cafes, which, according to the newspaper's information, would be divided into two entities. The first would be closed to all designated restaurants and cafes. It's the right thing to do. They all deserve that support. But I wonder at this second stage if the information in the public domain is correct that its second support would be for cafés and restaurants to take their laid-off workers back to work. To what work do legally bound cafés and restaurants take these workers? I understand that, in any case, these companies will certainly come back to every employee at the time when the government authorises the opening of a café and the opening of a restaurant, but the fact that at that stage these workers should be reinstated on the company's payroll when there is no job opportunity does not seem to be an inconceivable performance. That is why I hope that this direct support model, which has been raised by the Assembly, will be the one that will be allocated to the restaurant and café sectors. I have also been pleased with today's information that Mr Katri, Minister of Finance, My corner has given a positive, green light to the VAT refund system proposed by the Assembly at the beginning of the year. It would be a quick way to help these companies beyond this crisis. Let us hope that the other parties in the government do not reject this good proposal which the Minister has made. We are now preparing under the leadership of the corner. A fixed-term abolition of employers' contributions would also be an effective way of doing this. [The President knocks ] Mr President! Shall I take the floor again or shall I finish briefly?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u64	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u65	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u66	Mr President! Health is the most important thing now, and we all agree on that, but I have noted in this unusual situation that leadership has recently been highlighted, both good and bad. In terms of publicity, we have seen and read a lot of different cycles of responsibility and also conflict recently. There are shortcomings in the system: the most recent, for example, of Business Finland's ambiguities and even before that, the issues of the Emergency Supply Agency are now unclear, and there has also been one and another in the past. It would certainly be advisable to make a careful review of the operation of the Supply Security Centre over the years. We know that they have a balance sheet of EUR 2 billion, most of which is stock for crises. However, the situation now was that stocks and acquisitions were not up-to-date. The masks ran out, and then the orders got the wrong ones. Hopefully, the same will not happen with medical bottled oxygen, especially when there are equipment available in our country that produces much cheaper and as safe, by generating oxygen from air from the generator as bottled oxygen. So oxygen is always generated on site where there is a need. We know that in England, for example, there is already a crying shortage of oxygen and oxygen bottles — in precisely those countries where the corona is two or three weeks ahead of Finland. The resources of the Security of Supply Centre come from energy taxes. That's 0.5% of retail prices. On their own pages they claim that all goods are always commercially curative and comply with environmental standards. I hope so. With regard to security of supply, this is the last moment — the moment for us to defend clean domestic agriculture and to be self-sufficient in all kinds of situations. Additional efforts are needed in the area of food supply. We have enough grain supply for maybe six months now. Earlier in the '80s, they were enough for over a year. There is now a need for investments in the profitability of food production. The costs of farmers are now higher than incomes in several points. In the trade sector, SOK and Kesko have for a long time acted on market terms by undermining our domestic food supply. Producers receive such a low price for their products that they are increasingly dependent on state aid, and this cannot continue. Producer prices must be raised immediately. If large retailers and processors do not increase producer prices, defending their large market share of around 85 % on the grounds of security of supply is unfounded. Even before the corona, the Chinese tried to buy dairy in our country. Now we have to fight for our agriculture. Self-sufficiency must be maintained, fields cultivated and Finnish-owned. The government should also invest more strongly in agriculture at national level. We cannot just rely on an EU support system. In Sweden, things are already worse: they have already lost their self-sufficiency in agriculture. We must not unduly hamper our clean agricultural production under the guise of combating climate change. We already produce the most climate-friendly food in the world. Similarly, in energy production, we also face a serious threat to our security of supply. There must be some sense in this, too. With regard to fuel taxes, increases, in this situation they restrict mobility, and in the current situation, however, passenger cars would perhaps be the most healthy and safe form of mobility.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u67	Mr President! There is a budgetary plan for 2021-24 in the debate, and it is the centre's view that Finland must take its whistle through the crisis as fully as possible. All Finns and the whole country must be involved. The increase in poverty in families with children, the exclusion of young people and the overriding lack of participation must be prevented, services and safety nets must in due course be put in place in a sustainable way. The burden of dealing with the crisis must also be shared fairly. The Finnish economy is still in intensive care. It is therefore appropriate to continue to increase direct payments to businesses. The aim is to prevent a large-scale wave of company bankruptcy and the resulting high unemployment, and after intensive care the recovery period begins. It is the view of the Centre that, after the crisis, the only way to bring Finland back on its feet is through broad cooperation and instead of confrontation, the resources must be put in place to solve common problems, and here we have made a great deal of use of speeches across party lines and opposition. Measures to improve employment are key to increasing welfare and balancing public finances. The Ministry of Finance estimates that without measures to improve employment, the employment rate will be below 72% in 2023. After all, at the beginning of the government term, before the corona crisis, the target was set at 75%. The Prime Minister's Office has set up a rapid coordination of the study group led by Hetemäki to coordinate a strategic plan (1) to limit the economic, health and social damage in the immediate crisis phase and the measures that have now been decided to break away in a timely manner on the basis of an epidemiological and medical situation picture and an overall social assessment, and (2) to prepare for post-crisis measures and their preparation for the various sectors of society. At the request of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance, a study group has also been carried out to assess the economic impact of the interest rate and the measures taken to restore Finland to the path of sustainable growth and high employment and sustainable public finances. Mr Heikkinen has rightly pointed out that it is good to take forward these infrastructure projects, and Mr Heinonen has also mentioned the export industry. That is why I have come to speak again, Mr President, because it is true that these cornerstones are in that direction of the export industry. I come from Kainuu myself, there is strong expertise in the direction of the forest industry and KaiCell Fibers, a bioproduct factory. Then if you look that way in East Lapland, there's a Boreal Bioref, a bioproduct factory. These are the growth drivers that are the future players in the export industry and export products, and that is what we must then make a strong move forward in these stimulus measures. It would also be worth considering, Mr President, how we, too, by the government, will ensure that the patience and the strength of the situation are also well-off after this period of crisis. This is also the industrial policy that has been spoken in this Chamber for this year, and also for last year, among other things. So my point, Mr President, is that now we need to think very much about this public finances when we think that they are moving forward, that these industries in the export industry are developing after this period of crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-21-ps-58.u68	Mr President! Optimism is a good feature at least in difficult times. But I think realism is even better. We already know that unfortunately the worst is just coming and coming. However, how long the pandemic will be and how many waves will be coming are still completely unclear to us. According to any expert, the shape of the economic recovery curve is hardly V-shaped, but rather U-shaped or even W-shaped, which means very difficult times. At the same time, conclusions can also be drawn that the recession is most likely to be two-digit instead of the estimated 5.5%. According to JTS, the central government deficit will begin to decline from next year as tax revenue increases and support measures expire. A great deal has been promised. It is true that the government has taken many good measures both to control the virus and to make life easier for businesses and people. Unfortunately, Finland was already more indebted to households, municipalities and the state than ever before before. Of course, we are living ahead of health, but we will be in debt dramatically over the coming years. This figure is difficult to estimate, but the government debt will possibly amount to over 200 billion. However, most of the future is an evaluation, but we already know that our lives will change forever. It's time before the corona and after the corona. That is what we have learned from the previous recessions and crises that our patterns of behaviour will change. After the interest, we'll be more careful. At the same time, our consumer behaviour changes. There will also be interruptions in production chains and payment failures. So there will be what is known as the destruction of demand. Mr President! We know that financial aid from the state and guarantees for loans to companies are only enough for some. As we have read in the papers, some subsidies are very laxly distributed. No matter how much debt is raised, there will be a wall. Unfortunately, what the government may have already promised, that is to say, a large proportion of the companies that are already in favour will be supported and, at the same time, those most in need of support and assistance will be excluded. They're left to their own happiness. The business field is changing. A large number of entrepreneurs who would normally be able to create new and work for us Finns lose their position. The public sector will grow even further with its growing debt. General government EDP debt, i.e. consolidated gross debt at nominal prices, will grow strongly in the coming years. Unemployment will increase, and as a result of the collapse of tax revenues, the government programme will drop its base. At the same time, different social and mental problems will grow. The JTS plan does not take sufficient account of the future — perhaps not at this stage. However, in the future, the state aids and the full compensation to be provided to municipalities in the JTS plan will be under-estimated. Even before the corona, municipalities were facing major financial problems. Now the tax revenue will collapse. At the same time, social and health expenditure goes sky high after the interest rate. Raising the size of nurses to 0.7 is a good goal, but is it not more important, however, that all those who need care receive the care required by the Constitution, even if it is 1.5. In the municipalities, the massive increase in the compensation of corporate downs, the ageing population, economic distress and inequality are putting even greater pressure on small and medium-sized municipalities in this period of 21-24, and the increase in central government shares from EUR 18.4 billion to EUR 20 billion will unfortunately not bring them salvation. - Thank you.
