ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for discussion. The decision will now be taken by Mr Petteri Orpon and others. on the intermediate issue of the rejection of the economic and employment objectives of the Government Programme. The debate was closed at the plenary session on 30 September 2020. With the support of Petteri Orpo Riikka Purra, he has put forward a motion of censure to the Government. The proposal has been divided into representatives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u2	Before voting, the vote is open for 10 minutes. The representatives present at the beginning of the sitting shall vote first. Other representatives are invited to come to the Chamber through the back door through the State Hall. After voting in the Chamber, I would ask the representatives to leave the House's side doors and avoid meeting in the vicinity of the doors and in the round corridor. The progress of the interim vote can also be followed by a webcast. I would also ask you to take account of the security gap during the vote.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u3	A fourth item in the order of business will be presented for second reading. It is now possible to adopt or reject the draft law, the content of which was decided at first reading.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u4	Madam President! This deals with issues such as a rather small government proposal which mainly corrects the legal definitions and performs a little such maintenance on money laundering related legislation. Of course, President-in-Office, a very brief report has already been drawn up by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and it essentially agrees with the Government's point of view. It is very important that the shadow economy and tax evasion are addressed. Surely all of us have been a little shocked and pondered by these Paradise Island revelations and the knowledge of how much billions of money is moving around the world, you can say, darkly, criminal money, corruption money and money without tax liability. It is also very disturbing and questionable that we have quite large international companies that do not really pay taxes anywhere, that we have such a world economy and such a system. However, it is certainly appropriate to have a reasonable level of taxation, a certain level of social responsibility, in which the European Union could certainly do a little more. However, President-in-Office, I would also like to say that when it comes to monitoring bank accounts and preventing the grey and black economy, a certain common sense should also be involved. Unfortunately, even at the moment, many regulations on the prevention of money laundering are seen to be quite challenging in many small companies, such as, for example, real estate, law enforcement, law enforcement: what are their own obligations? As far as banking regulation is concerned, we also have the problem of unfortunately wearing the same shirt for every size of bank, for large international commercial banks and then for small regional banks, which may operate on a cooperative basis or, as the savings banks do, on a foundation-based basis, and this is a kind of flaw. The grey economy should be addressed, precisely that massive tax evasion, the black, criminal economy — not necessarily such a great bureaucracy for small operators.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u5	Madam President! Mr Kurvinen gave a good speech on the grey economy and, in fact, on how to tackle tax evasion globally and effectively, but, at the same time, Mr Kurvinen, as a strong supporter of this left-wing government, is again cutting the household allowance. In fact, household reduction has been one of the most effective means of tackling the informal economy in everyday life. It has brought a significant amount of work and employment, new jobs, new businesses to this country, and this is the second time that this left-wing government, led by Mr Kurvisen and the partners, is cutting this household reduction. In fact, the Social Democrats, the Greens and the Centre are in power in Sweden. By the way, those same parties are also in power in Finland, but in Sweden these same parties reduce the tax burden on labour, want to strengthen the purchasing power of ordinary people, and otherwise they improve the household allowance. In Finland, we seem to have worse demos, greens and downtown people, because they are tightening taxes on work, cutting purchasing power from people, and at the same time cutting this household allowance. Now I would like to ask Mr Kurvis, the staunch supporter of this left-wing government, why have you come to the conclusion that it is worth cutting the household allowance so drastically, because the results have been extremely good from the point of view of entrepreneurship, employment and the shadow economy?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u6	Madam President! Action to eradicate the shadow economy and tax evasion and related phenomena is really necessary and useful, and many or, you may say, all of our recent governments have tried to invest, and results have also been achieved. The grey economy has a wide range of phenomena in addition to tax evasion — both those businesses and entrepreneurs exploiting workers and then those workers who do not pay taxes on their income but who take social protection that does not belong to them with one hand — but a common interest in combating the shadow economy. The honest entrepreneurs who have to compete with these fraudsters are affected by it by taxpayers who, in some way, have to pay taxes on behalf of those who fail to pay their taxes, because the non-payment of taxes does not, of course, reduce the cost needs of society. These money laundering issues relating to the black economy have been made public through international data leaks and it is confusing how huge sums of money are being spoken about. It is disconcerting that even reputable banks have fallen — from an outsider’s point of view, too easily — into activities involving money laundering. Of course, these major money-laundering offences are quite difficult to find out because they are where the pre-crime took place, for example, in Russia, and, as we know, they are very difficult to clarify, and the willingness of the neighbouring authorities to cooperate in these cases is often rather limited. I understand that the current government has invested EUR 20 million more in combating the shadow economy and tax evasion, and that is a good thing. It would be even better if this investment of EUR 20 million were indeed to generate an additional EUR 300 million in this area of activity, which I understand is what the present government parties believed in during the last parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u7	Mr President! Thank you, Mr Kurvise, for opening this debate. I think his tone and viewpoint were well-founded. That is the angle in which we should look at this issue. I am well aware that banks are following where they receive funding and may set up very complex systems for even small businesses to monitor the flows of small financial transactions, and Mr Kurvinen is right that sometimes it seems to be oversized bureaucracy, especially in relation to what this phenomenon is about to be global. It is estimated that there are around 70 to 80 tax havens in the world, which are also located in the regions of the European Union. Of course, Britain's resignation, the Brexit, freed us quite a lot from tax havens, many of which are actually areas under British rule. It has been calculated that 10% of the world's GDP on a scale of funds has been invested in tax havens. According to IMF estimates, half of the assets of all banks have been invested in the areas of these tax havens, half of the assets of all global banks have been invested in tax havens, and only within the Union — this is the European Parliament’s calculations — there are about EUR 100 billion of welfare losses and tax losses. So this is a global puddle that we allow these tax havens to exist in this world, which leads us to have significant welfare losses in countries such as Finland because big players are transferring their funds to these tax havens. Why? Because it is an attempt at tax avoidance. This is a real problem. In this case, Mr President, as much as Mr Zyskowicz has requested from this government of ours, national measures are not enough. We must genuinely approach this phenomenon at European Union level as a whole and ultimately, of course, at global level, but, at least at European level, we must be determined to get rid of these tax havens.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u8	Madam President! Mr Heinos had some good observations, but unfortunately the main tone of his speech represented this new negative, negative, gloomy assembly. Oh, I miss the time when the coalition was a positive party of hope and not this, which is what it is now: intimidation of people and a little of this gloomy talk. In order not to leave a completely wrong view of this debate, this red mud government has considerably increased the number of policemen and prosecutors, for example, and it seeks to investigate more financial crimes and then find, for example, those actors who set up fake companies like this and chain them up. After all, we have situations where there may be five or six people and there will be a hundred CEOs and chairman of the board when we play on this very grey side, what Mrs Zyskowicz described very well there, and I quite agree that the problem of honest entrepreneurs is these dogs and fraudsters that work in this area. Of course, when Mr Heinonen asked directly about this reduction in the household allowance, that is a sad thing — I am in favour of a reduction in the household and we are in favour of it in the centre — but I would like to say that the cut is not very significant at this point, little of the biggest reductions fall down. What's that gonna get us? For example, it provides better road maintenance — a very important issue for Finns and entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u9	Madam President! At the very beginning, it has to be said that the coalition is a positive party of hope. And, as Mr Kurvine said very well in his first speech, this proposal itself is a technical one. This will address precisely the legal shortcomings found in the previous anti-money laundering legislation. And, as has been well called for in the previous speeches, all possible measures to prevent the shadow economy are necessary, and this is one such and important one.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u10	Mr President! I, too, will take a more debatian stance on this. I believe in what Mr Pelkonen has said here that the coalition is a party of hope and positiveness. We all hope for it from the assembly, as we do from other parties. But Mr Heinonen’s speech genuinely turned his attention away from where Mr Kurvinen opened up in an excellent way, and also to where Mr Zyskowicz replied: we started to reflect on these global phenomena and the depravity of these tax havens in how it is to undermine the financial basis of our welfare societies. For some strange reason, the representative: Heinonen is speaking here about the household allowance, which is a small, small, small detail. Admittedly, we can debat whether it is necessary and to what extent it can be done — but when we talk about big things, Mr Heinonen, the party of hope and positiveness seizes big things and does not tinker with little lily stumps.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u11	Mr President! The real interior of the social democrats is gradually being revealed, which means that for the social democrats, the household allowance is apparently a lily stump.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u12	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u15	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u16	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the meeting of the large committee is approaching. Let us just take Mr Kiljunen's speech to this point and then see how we proceed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-10-02-ps-123.u18	President! I am very short on this matter. Mr Heinonen, genuinely, I do not underestimate the debate on the reduction in the household, nor the importance of the reduction in the household for this eradication of the black economy, but I would have liked to have hoped that the speech from the party — the first speech that came out of it — would have taken up that big issue: the proposals on how we are going to tackle tax havens seriously, how we are going to bring this system under control. That was the prelude to Mr Kurvise's speech and the most important message.
