ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented to the first reading. The basis for this discussion is the report by the Committee on Social Affairs and Health on StVM 9/2020 vp. The content of the draft law is now being decided.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u2	Mr President! Some have said that the government programme should now be completely thrown into a scrap heap, but this proposal is one of those things which is based on our government programme and which is absolutely worthy of preservation. Of course, we have to look at the government programme with a new eye, but this is the government's proposal. [Fresh—The President-in-Office] The Government’s proposal states that ‘social work is of a nature supportive of change, with the aim of jointly reducingthe difficulties in living conditions with individuals, families and communities, strengthening the conditions andparticipation of individuals and We are on a very important issue, which has also been highlighted in the context of the corona crisis: social work is of great importance and perhaps too little is being said about it in our society. And that is why it is very important that social research is now funded through this government's proposal. This proposal states that ‘in many studies attention has been paid particularly to the provision of services for children and It must definitely be strengthened. The proposal also highlights the need for research, such as the findings of shortcomings in the services of the elderly and, for example, the ongoing social welfare reform. Mr President! This government proposal, based on the record of the Government Programme, is an important part of the package in which we strengthen our country's social research and also our practical work. This opinion’s feedback examined, among other things, the contents of the concepts of ‘social work’ and ‘social care’. I think it is important to take account of the fact that, through the opinions we received in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health, no service under the Social Welfare Act is excluded from this funding, but it is important to ensure that, in the future, funding is allocated, that this is taken into account and that research is wide-ranging and supports the various tasks in the social care sector in practice as well. Mr President! Indeed, I very much welcome this government proposal, because research needs funding and long-term sustainability, and it also in the long term improves practical work and the quality of social services provided to Finns. It is also very welcome if this funding, as stated in the government proposal, increases the attractiveness of social work as a professional sector.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u3	Mr President! This government proposal for a law amending the Social Welfare Act, which allows the funding of research into social work at university level, is necessary and justified, and it is good that it has been obtained. The aim of the proposal is to extend state research funding to university level social work research. So far, there has not been a system of state compensation based on health research in the field of social research, and there is also a lack of action units in the field of social welfare in which scientific research, scientific and vocational training and practical work are combined. So this is really necessary. It will certainly also increase the attractiveness of the sector, career opportunities, and also, given the integration needs of social and health care and taking into account the field of work, it will support these. And it makes sense that it is specifically university-level research, so that it can also be targeted at projects that affect them, so that it can also deliver results. In this context, however, I would like to raise concerns about the fact that this funding has now been allocated to the same item together with a university-level health study, and this item has been reduced by 4 million compared to the previous year. In the previous year, during the previous government, funding for health research was increased by a separate budget, and that is why the amount has now decreased in this budget for health research. In other words, it would be important to ensure adequate funding for research in the future, both in the social field and at the university level of health science. Such crises particularly highlight the importance of research, and I would also remind you that Parliament has adopted a statement in which a growing financial contribution to university level health research must be directed.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u4	Mr President! As we prepare for the future, including the post-pandemic period, it is good that we also have social science research. We need researched knowledge and solid scientific research into decision-making, the results of which will allow us to draw further conclusions. Esko Valtaoja, professor Emeritus of astronomy, today, stated in the First Saxon: “By studying we get clear. You have to trust science. It's the best way we've got. I hope that we will see the importance of science, which is an essential part of our society. I hope that when all kinds of information is on the move, the fact will eventually be all right.” Professor Valtaoja also spoke about the high value of science in Finland, and it is reflected in our well-being, and resources are needed for that. The answer to this is also this government proposal. I have to say that this corona period and the need for its research further underline the need for social work research. At university level, research into social work is now possible, financed by state funds. The previous speech concerned the financing of research in health sciences and social sciences. I understand that this 4 million has been taken from the money saved in the collapse of the social welfare reform. We need social and health services to integrate research at the interface between social sciences and health sciences. Social reform must be completed in order to survive, and these two disciplines must not under any circumstances be contrasted. We need research, for example, on how families, parents, children, young people and the elderly have been able to and how our social welfare system has worked in the middle of everything during the quarantine period in isolation or at a distance. In this sense, too, this proposal comes in a very timely situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u5	Mr President! This government proposal before us has been long awaited in the social field and, in my opinion, it will also increase the value of social work. The Social Welfare Act entered into force in 2015, but there was a clear lack of law, as nothing was provided for in the case of research funding for social work at the time. Now this deficiency will be remedied, and for that I thank the government. There really is a need for social work research. There are shortcomings in the knowledge base of social work and social care as a whole, and many kinds of research data on social welfare are needed. In particular, this is needed as a knowledge base for the social welfare reform. There is a great need for a study on the effectiveness of social services — information on how customer service processes affect their lives and what changes are taking place in well-being. Without reliable research data, the services cannot be organised, developed and managed in an appropriate way. Now social work research receives its own state funding of EUR 4 million. In its report, the Committee on Social Affairs and Health attaches great importance to the strengthening of state research funding for both health care services and university level research in social work. These two don't rule out each other. This will strengthen research by investing in the overall promotion of the health and well-being of the population. Until a moment ago, we did not know what kind of corona virus we were facing, how it would affect people’s well - being. That is why, in this world situation, I see this funding for research even more important. It is clear that social work will play an important role in coping with the crisis and aftercare will last for a long time. I believe that we will also need a great deal of research on this period of time. But above all, this funding ensures that social work and social care practices can be developed on the basis of research. It is important to create cooperation projects between several actors and to strengthen the research-based working culture throughout the field of social work. It is worth remembering that when services can be developed effectively and on the basis of research, the benefits here are ultimately the person who needs social services — and, given the nature of social work, they are often the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u6	Mr President! I will tell you what the Committee on Education and Rural Development will say about this and, as has been said in the Council of Presidents, we can take a longer line here. In other words, the Committee on Education notes that social welfare experts, social workers and academics in the field of social work have repeatedly for decades been expressing concern about the limitations of the research base on social welfare and social work and the insufficient resources allocated to research in relation to the social need. Until now, there has been no system of funding based on state compensation for research into social work and social services such as health research. In accordance with the Government Programme, the Government proposal proposes that a new section 60c on the financing of university-level social work research be added to the Social Welfare Act. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health can provide annual funding for social work research projects. Project studies will be peer reviewed and funded projects must be compatible with the focus areas and objectives of social work research. The Ministry shall set up an evaluation group of experts on social work research to be consulted before deciding on the distribution of funds. The Education Committee considers the Government's proposal to be justified and supported. Social care lacks operational units responsible for the central university hospitals, which combine scientific research, scientific and vocational training and practical work. There is a clear need for research to develop social work and social welfare practices. There is also a significant number of social workers with research capacities who are able and able to develop social care in a more effective direction. Combining research careers with practical social work can be an important new attraction in an area where recruitment problems pose major challenges. According to the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, the Government's proposal strengthens the research-based development of social services and society's most vulnerable rights. The reform will provide additional resources for strengthening research-based working practices. In order to respond to this important and challenging social task, critical basic research is also needed, for which the draft law opens up entirely new possibilities. Strengthening social work research creates conditions for improving the effectiveness of social work and social services and promotes the right of social services customers to research-based social work and services. The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs welcomes the funding proposed by the government for university level research in social work as a very welcome opening, but still modest in terms of the apparent need. The proposed new form of funding is also very important for the operational and structural reform and integration of social and health care. In order to achieve the objectives set for the reform of social and health services, it is essential that legislation establishes equal structures and financial systems for social welfare and health care, including in education and research. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u7	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u8	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u9	Indeed, the right to speak is unlimited, so these minutes are merely recommendations.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u10	Mr President! In this connection, Mr Risikko has presented the content of this government's proposal with merit, and thank you for that. In this country, research has been respected throughout decades, and in health care, medical care, it has been an important pillar of the past, and it has also been stressed time and again in this Chamber that decisions and policies should also be based on good research. Well, on the other hand, if we look back years, this corona period is now particularly important, then social welfare and social work have proved to be a very important and valuable part of society's activities. The interest period has further underlined the need for high-quality social work on a sufficiently large scale, especially for the disadvantaged. In order to help them and, on the other hand, to compensate for the differences in welfare, this is absolutely essential. However, research into university-level social work, and in particular its funding, has been very much in infancy, and last season in the Committee on Social Affairs and Health this was also raised. In that sense, I would now like to say thank you to the government for bringing this proposal. It is very necessary and university-level research, high-quality research, in the social work sector is needed, and I believe that there are willing researchers there, including those who have already been in practical social work, and I think that this will benefit society as a whole. Mr Risikko has already highlighted the amount of funding, and I am sure that in this sector, too, more funding is needed than is currently planned, but this is a very good start. Thank you to the government for the presentation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u11	Mr President! I have on my desk a 20-year Social Government party book, a time that I happened to get my hands on a couple of weeks ago. The authors include Director-General Vappu Taipale, Director Antti-Veikko Family House, who also had a long-term career as a representative of parliament, Senior Researcher Matti Heikkilä, Professor Hannu Uusitalo and so on. There is a final chapter entitled ‘Awards’, which is written by the Legal AdviserMattiMikkola —which wishes to be quoted briefly:‘In order to meetthe requirements described above,andto enabletheidentitytobeincorporatedfromthesocialofficetothe service centre for the public health work, a system ofrequirementsforrenewal ofinformation,newinformation,professionalproceedings,improvement of pay, andthe possibility of transferringto the servicerequirementtothesocial andrecovery ofcustomers. Unlike medicine and other natural sciences, there are many obstacles to the renewal of social science knowledge. It is difficult to imagine a society in which social information could systematically be renewed. For one reason or another, inspirational research always wants to lose its resources or be shut up.” This was written 32 years ago in the 20th anniversary of the Social Government, and it is a great thing that we now have a law defining a university level of social science. I remember many people in the referral debate saying that it would be good for us to be able to concreteise and open up the content of social research. When we have talked about social and health care and my own target group and reference group have largely been health care, many times I have had to tell healthcare professionals what we mean by social services. My list has generally been seven-pointed: care for the elderly, special care for people with mental disabilities, substance abuse care, fostering and family counselling services, disability services, child protection and permeable social work. It is now a question of research at university level and of channelling these resources to them. This is not out of medicine or health science research, although the budget items can in some way be shown to be so. I consider this to be a very important reform and I agree with the views that have been expressed here that more must be invested in research funding.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u12	Mr President! The aim of this proposal is to enable research into social work at university level to be funded from state funding, and this is a good and worthwhile proposal. It is good to have researched, for example, how preventive social services can promote the well-being of children and families and target services in a timely manner. In particular, as the population ages and labour supply declines, it is important that resources are allocated in the most efficient way possible, and it is then good to have studied the information on the basis of these decisions. There has been a debate here about whether this funding for social research has in practice reduced the funding for health research. This is actually a very small amount compared to the total budget of the state, but the fact is that if we compare the 2020 and 2019 budgets, there will be a reduction of a few million euros for this health research funding and then an increase of 4 million euros for social work research. Whatever the reason, these figures are true, and it is therefore understandable that those who then carry out this university-level health research under the Health Care Act are slightly concerned that such a trend would not come. Both areas of research are important, and it is important that this is a good start to finance these research activities, particularly those carried out at university level.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u13	Mr President! This government proposal is a welcome and certainly a good start across opposition-government and party boundaries. The study of social work has been such a missing piece, and now this government proposal is helping to correct it. As has been well demonstrated in previous speeches, it has been in infancy compared to, for example, health research, and I would like to see many ways of seeing these as complementary, somewhat in the same spirit as the idea of integration of social welfare reform, which is certainly a great deal to be done in an interdisciplinary way. I think it is essential that in this proposal — as the chairman of the Committee on Culture well described the opinions of the Committee on Culture, Public Health and Consumer Policy — the high scientific quality of research has become so central that it is such a strong criterion for the granting of research funding, and this must, of course, be the case. I see that the strengthening of social work research provides an important opportunity to improve the effectiveness of social work and to develop new ways of working, based specifically on researched knowledge. I think that the forthcoming social reform must ensure in all cases that research and scientific research are possible in the structures inside it and that it is not allowed to deteriorate in Finland. In addition to this, I would also like to point out, perhaps from the perspective of the future, that when Finland is rebuilt in the post-corona crisis, a credible road map is needed to raise Finnish research and innovation funding to 4% of GDP. After all, this objective has already been nailed during the last term of government, and the current government has adopted its own programme, but for the time being it will not be seen in any significant way in the functioning of the government, i.e. a credible plan on how genuinely to achieve this goal by 2030. We all realise that it will not be achieved by public funding alone – especially now that we are still seeing this economic situation in which we live in the post-corona period – but that incentives and encouraging carrot money from the state are needed to channel as much private investment in research and investment into Finland as possible, i.e. to involve our private sector in research and innovation activities, which will then have a significant connection to future economic growth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, now that these hall doors are exceptionally open, let us try to remember that when we leave this hall, we will not start to shout when we get out — it is very much here and disturbs the debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u15	Mr President! That is where I was holding the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, the President pointed out that I was spending time — but rightly so — but I would now like to remind you of what the Council of Presidents has said. Although we really have the opportunity to extend that recommended speaking time here, I did not use it just now, but I used the President-in-Office's decision to allow the chairman or representative of the Committee of Inquiry to speak on a longer basis, which is why I considered it to be a rather special exercise for the President. But, nothing. This is a very good thing in itself, because it is time for us to have the same kind of social work research as we have had for health research. Just as the committee went through, we do not have specific responsibilities for social work structures, i.e. the so-called'sperva' areas. After all, we have this medical research in such a way that the state gives money to special areas of responsibility, which then distributes health research to the medical districts. It contains precise criteria: it requires precisely that high quality and precisely the so-called university level. We had a hugely good debate in the Committee on Education and Rural Development on what that kind of university level means. Since at first there was a slight feeling that everything should be as it was done at university, we wanted to stress in this statement that there may well also be representatives of a university of applied sciences in a research group or as researchers. It is the quality of research that is at stake. What all this social work research is about is that we get more effective social work, that decision-making is based on research and that it is very impressive and evidence-based. I believe that this decision will make more effective social work, which is indeed what we need. I would also like to say, on behalf of those scientists, that this was a good opening for this now. I hope that we will be able to achieve, just as Mr Grahn-Laasonen has said here, a career which has been sought to achieve, that 4% of our gross domestic product for research and specifically for research. There is also a great deal about social work where this innovation activity can be developed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u16	Mr President! I would like to continue with this development of innovation. It is particularly important here to invest in this research, and I wish I could almost say that we are investing again, because at some point it has been reduced and now we are going in this other direction. Perhaps what could bring added value to this debate on this innovation side is that when, on an occasional basis, both in the world and in Finland, the effect of non-participation, for example, on the intention to commit a crime, it has been found that if a person is in one way or another separated from this, what we understand is normal well-being, what every person needs, that is, if a person is without education or a job, both, a family, he is more prone to commit crimes than a person who is more committed to society. And at this point, when more evidence of this is obtained through university and higher education research, it may even be that this kind of investment, which amounts to a few million euros in this research, may then save the government savings on issues such as these criminal activities. That is also why this proposal is particularly worthy of support.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u17	Mr President! In short, on my own behalf and on behalf of the Left Alliance, I should like to say that this is indeed an important and necessary reform, and thank the government for bringing this expected change of law to Parliament. This is something that was indeed already agreed at the time of the government negotiations that it would be carried out. Social research in general is under-resourced, and the importance and importance of social work as a scientific field is only further emphasised, as many have said here, for example by Mrs Viljanen in her own speech. This is the kind of research we need in this world. The issue of social reform has been raised here, and I think that social reform is a good example in previous years of how the social side is easily left out both in discussions and in resources when it comes to social and health policy as a whole. It is important for us in the Left Alliance that social work should be valued and I see that this strengthening of resources in research in this area is an important part of this. I'm glad this is moving forward.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-05-20-ps-75.u18	Mr President! I asked for another floor because I would like to say that Mr Risikko, chairman of the Committee on Education, has just spoken very well, and I would have supplemented it in such a way that, when he described the process by which we describe this, should we now say that we have shared the funding of parallel funding, that is, health research, in Finland, he pointed out that, although we are talking here about university-level research, this is not intended, for example, for the basic funding of universities, but for the service organisation. In other words, the part of this funding that has previously gone exclusively to health science and which still accounts for EUR 25 million of its EUR 21 million comes to the health service organisation. And, as Mr Risikko said, we have erva-regionals — that is, there are five of these in Finland — medical research committees that share its research funding on application, and it is highly competitive, so that only 20 percent can actually be awarded, i.e. when there are a concession of twenty million, then the total applications are 100 million approximately, and the level is very high. It is precisely this practicality, as is the case with clinical research on the medical side: for example, it has been found that only the Meilahti campus in that HUS, when this study is conducted in a number of research groups, has about 70 changes or reforms of practical care based on this clinical study on an annual basis. That is, once a week, a new treatment practice or a change in the treatment practice that is based on the research for which such funding is intended. And now it is very nice that we also get this kind of funding for social research, but I would therefore like to highlight two words: practical for social services organisations, but at university level, i.e. scientific.
