ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u1	The third item in the order of business will be presented for the referral. The Council of Presidents proposes that the matter be referred to the Committee on Finance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u2	Mr President! When looking at the economic impact of the interest rate crisis, it is also good to look for a reference basis in recent history. Compared to the early 1990s, we are in a much easier situation in this situation, for example because our currency is a stable euro, interest rates are down and foreign lenders trust Finland. Thanks for the trust of the lenders are also due to the persistent work of the previous government. So we are not in any forced state in the same way as we were in the early 1990s, but we will now take a loan to ensure that the protection or testing of human health is not caught up in it. The Government provides EUR 600 million for the purchase of safety equipment and protective equipment. With today's decisions, we will also continue to borrow in order to carry companies over the crisis: business subsidies will increase again by almost EUR 1 billion. We also support people's livelihoods. As a new important decision, I would like to mention the monthly allowance for labour market support for parents of children under the age of 10, which compensates for loss of income for not having gone to early childhood education or school. For me personally, this has been one of the most important decisions in this draft amending budget. Of course, in many families, parents have stretched out to be homeschoolers while working at a distance, and they have a lot of thanks for that — in the same way many teachers have been firm, and they also deserve thanks. In support of the well-being of children and young people, a separate programme of measures will also be put together to reduce the harm caused by hobbies and school closures. Further loans will also be made available to support municipalities. We want to ensure that central hospitals have sufficient money to treat coronas. The municipalities’ income base is promised to be compensated in many ways for the loss of tax revenue as well as through central government transfers, and the total will be approximately EUR 1 billion. Municipalities are the most important partners of the state in helping people and businesses at the moment. The second amending budget will focus on the management of the interest rate crisis and an additional EUR 3.6 billion will be proposed for this year. In addition to supporting businesses, there will be further proposals on the livelihood of families, support for rural enterprises and the operating conditions of the Border Guard. Cultural and physical operators — sports clubs, sports federations, museums, theatres and other sectors — will be supported by around EUR 60 million to cope with this exceptional situation. Expenditure incurred by the State on the March labour market package has also been included in this draft amending budget. In addition, social security expenditure will rise when more people are unemployed and laid off. We will also submit a third draft amending budget to Parliament in May on the management of the interest rate crisis and also on recovery measures. Its size will be clear in due course, but a loan will also be made available, and it will also specify measures in support of municipalities, the principles of which the government has now reached agreement. At the beginning of May, I will also receive results from the country's leading economists, Vesa Vipriälä's working group, from the impact of the corona crisis on the economy and measures and how they can be limited, and this will also become proposals for the May amending budget. And at the same time, in May, we must also address the sustainability of public finances, high employment and how to achieve a more sustainable balance in public finances, how to achieve it after the crisis. In the short term, therefore, we are going to borrow two-digit billions to ensure that the daily lives of children, young people, families, older people, workers and entrepreneurs also work in the context of the corona crisis, but the survival of the corona crisis is not just a matter of the courage of borrowing. The balance between short-term and long-term economic policies is absolutely essential to safeguard the Nordic welfare society. The Government is committed to sharing the burden of the crisis in a socially and economically just and ecologically sustainable way and also fairly between generations. By lending, we will equalise the social impact of the crisis, and ecologically sustainable measures will bring us new economic growth. However, I am very concerned that we will not leave too much to future generations. In any case, today’s children will have to bear the cost of ageing the age structure. As Minister of Finance, it is also my job to ensure that Finland is creditworthy as a state and that our reputation in good financial management is also well known. In the long term, decisions that have an impact cannot be postponed indefinitely. Efforts to reduce the burden on future generations must be launched already this year. In its Government Programme, the government has committed itself to the employment target precisely because of the faster growth in government revenue than expenditure. The employment objective will be even more important in the future, and we will also return to employment measures in the autumn budget debate. The government is also committed to preparing a road map defining other measures to reduce fiscal imbalances. In addition to the employment rate, it includes measures to increase productivity and reform social and health services. This is about the much-speaked sustainability gap. The first phase in the process of reducing the sustainability gap will take place in the context of the adoption of the third amending budget for 2020, i.e. the May Recovery Budget. In the autumn budget debate, too, we must address this issue in order to be able to align the economic policy as a whole, and action will then be defined in the light of changes in the economic environment. In the autumn budget debate, the Government will also review the outlook on the future of the finances of municipalities and in the same context examine the tasks and obligations of municipalities. In the autumn budget debate, we will also return to the preliminary budgetary plan, the JTS document, which will also be discussed by Parliament. It does not yet include a stability programme for the EU Commission. This is because, due to exceptional circumstances, expenditure in 2020 will not be bound by the spending limits, but next year's expenditure will be bound by the spending limits. So there will be changes in the fall. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u3	Mr President! The second amending budget of the year will continue to respond to the acute crisis, as it should be. In this situation, the state must make every effort to ensure that health care and other essential functions of society receive the resources it needs. At the same time, however, immediate action must be taken to reduce the financial impact of these restrictive measures. Municipalities, businesses and private people who are losing their livelihoods immediately need support to overcome this difficult situation. Efforts must be made to prevent a wave of bankruptcy and long-term negative effects on employment. In this context, I would have liked to ask the Minister the first question as to how well it has now been possible to resource the processors of business aid applications in these different players, because it seems that now the biggest bottlenecks are precisely how quickly that financial support can be channelled into the business field. Many companies are experiencing a total acute cash crisis and that is a big problem. They do not have time to wait for these decisions for weeks and weeks. Mr President! Testing is the key to slowing down and suppressing the spread of the corona virus, as we have heard several times from experts. Sick persons must be identified in order to be effectively isolated and targeted in a timely manner. Tests also need to be increased so that we can better identify those who have already suffered the disease. It is particularly important to identify those who have already developed immunity from health care personnel so that they can continue their work. Restrictive measures can also be dismantled more quickly when it is known how much of the population has improved. That is why I agree with those who have asked why this amending budget has not committed any appropriations, including the extension of Kela payments to interest-rate payments. This has already been highlighted by the industry at the time of the preparation of this amending budget. In this way, the private sector could also be involved in sharing the cost of testing with society. I hope that there is absolutely no ideological obstacle for the government to include the wish expressed by business. The amending budget, on the other hand, has substantially increased the allocation for the purchase of protective equipment, which is absolutely justified. However, as we all know, during the Easter holidays, that fling of the Security of Supply Center culminated, and this type of activity certainly cannot be repeated in anyone's mind. It is therefore vital that health care should be provided with these protective equipment, and this event must definitely be fully resolved, and the financial losses that the state may have suffered must also be borne in mind. I would have asked the minister in question: is there any new information on this report at the moment, and in what way does the state expect that similar situations will no longer arise? Mr President! I would also like to point out that the government's amending budget has taken account of the importance of civil society. That's what I want to thank you for. This has taken into account both cultural, sports, youth and, for example, social organisations, and these are important at the time when we consider how we can support the lives of children and young people, for example, and how they can recover as much as possible from this crisis and from the effects it has left on the lives of children and young people — for example, that their leisure activities will be able to recover in due course and that, for example, child welfare organisations and similar actors will receive the financial support they need in this situation in order to be able to do the important work they need among families. In this connection, I would also like to point out that in many places parishes have gone out of business, not only providing that mental support, but they have also been an important aid to the social services of the municipal sector, which is generally a public actor in these matters, physically in the food work and in similar contacts with the deaconian work. In this context, I would like to ask: is it possible, for example, in the forthcoming third amending budget, to take account of the fact that these food-working organisations could be supported? They are the primary aid to many families who find it difficult to fill out various forms or similar forms required by social services — it would be possible to give it a concrete food bag or something like that, and then to meet the plight of these families and individuals in this situation. Mr President! Finally, I would like to point out here the idea raised by the Minister of Finance at the end of his speech that the balance of public finances must, however, be kept in the long term — it is extremely important. In that sense, I would like to remind you of the old saying that a brother is in debt when he is in debt, a half brother when he is paid. How, then, is the government now going to prepare for the possible reduction of a wide range of public expenditure items included in the Government Programme? For example, the categorical extension of compulsory education is, however, a project of hundreds of millions. It is quite clear that this is the type of financial hole that I cannot afford in this economic situation. The second question relates to the financing of the carer's appointment. The size of the nurse is largely recorded in the Government Programme in such a way that its costs will remain in the future and its costs will also remain in the municipalities. In this context, I would have liked to ask how, for example, the Minister of Local Government sees this. In what way, in this situation, in which municipalities actually suffer a great deal from these economic losses, which come through tax losses but also through increased social costs, do the municipalities survive? Then, perhaps last but not least, I would like to highlight the increased liability for guarantees, which last weekend the Minister of Finance was making decisions at that EU level. I would have liked to ask,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u4	Mr President! Almost 30 years ago, the recession of the early 1990s was seen, and its long shadow continues to appear in a regrettable way in Finnish society in many ways. Many then lost their jobs once and for all, their business activities, went into debt discipline, which no longer arose. A lot of people lost their health, even their lives. You can see the long shadow. When people born in 1987 have been studied, it appears that there are more mental health problems, there are exclusions, unfinished schools. In other words, the mistakes made in the 1990s must not be repeated in this situation. The situation is quite different from the economic point of view, because this has become a matter from the outside, but if we were to go to the cutting line now, cutting services, it would have the same marks that we see now in the 1990s. In my view, the government has taken the right line, and on this we have agreed with the opposition that it is now necessary to defend companies, to defend jobs, to defend services, to build a bridge over this recession that has been caused by the interest rate. The costs of this crisis must not be reduced to ordinary people, while large companies and banks are being rescued at the same time. Now we have to take care of small businesses, entrepreneurs, employees, schoolchildren, ordinary people. Social justice must be taken into account in all the work that is being done, and I think it is very much reflected in government policy. Mr President! Unfortunately, many have already lost their jobs or been laid off because of this corona crisis. It was therefore of the utmost importance that the days of entitlement to unemployment benefit were abolished — from the first day on, when laid off or laid off, unemployment benefits run. But the great concern is how unemployment funds and Kela is able to take care of these payments. This amending budget has provided funds for both Kela and the unemployment funds to deal with this huge increase in unemployment. If you consider, for example, the service sectors directly affected by government activities when restaurants are closed down, hotels have been quieted down, if the unemployment fund in the service sector normally has perhaps 2,000 applications per month, you are talking about tens of thousands. It is therefore necessary to ensure that people get their livelihoods and that applications do not get stuck somewhere in the systems so that their livelihoods sometimes come in months' time, but that the means taken when the financial crisis of global capitalism in 2008-2009 collapsed the economy. It was then that this payment was made easier. It needs to be used now. Mr President! The interest crisis also affects families in a very different way, people in very different situations. There are those who are able to work remotely from home, but then there are those who have to do them at the workplace because they are of the kind of work that cannot be done remotely but must be done at the workplace. At the same time, when it has been called upon to take children home from day-care centres and schools — and this is a wish that Finns have also very well followed for the day-care centre and the lowest classes — it must be taken into account that it creates tensions within families and that it is hard to strive for both school, early childhood education and work at the same time. There are also those who have had to be completely excluded from paid employment because of being able to care for children at home. I think it is extremely important, and a great deal of work has been done to achieve this, that a solution has been found to compensate these families for taking care of their children at home.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u5	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u6	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u7	Mr President! Companies do not need more bureaucracy in this situation, but Finnish companies need more money now, Mr Government. The situation in companies is very difficult. In fact, it can be said that this is no longer limited to a particular sector of activity, but in fact to all Finnish companies. Here we have previously talked about barbers, cosmetologists, physiotherapists and many others, and now that the situation has been prolonged and local education has become remote education, for example, school transport companies are in an extremely difficult situation, taxis, buses and the like. We've got to get action and help there fast. The problem with the Elys and other of these instruments that have now been introduced seems to be that they are too slow to take action. There are complex searches, unreasonable requirements and slow processing. We need to find faster ways, and we are offering you, Mr Government, in the meeting: introduce VAT refunds at the beginning of the year. It would be a quick way of helping these companies beyond this difficult situation. The restaurant and café business was in an exceptional situation: they were prohibited by law, ordered to be closed down. Freedom of business and property protection have been violated in the case of restaurants and cafes. I was surprised to hear Prime Minister Marin say that the aid package for this sector will be examined. Personally, I understand that the Constitutional Committee specifically called for compensation for the violent violation of freedom of trade and the protection of property. The sector suffers from around EUR 100 to EUR 200 million each month, without rent costs, and we are talking about the need for at least two months. The Coalition Party has today submitted a proposal to direct the first aid package to the restaurant sector in April, amounting to EUR 200 million, in May we will need more. I hope that today we will also find answers to this big issue of protective equipment in this Chamber. This proposal proposes an additional EUR 600 million for the purchase of protective equipment. They are needed, but they must be of high quality. In the future, we need to ensure that the quality and criteria are met in all these materials that are acquired with this money. I believe that Parliament must also keep it firmly on record. The question now, Madam Government, is: What has been ordered from these businessmen and women, and what has been obtained? Is it wrong to order and receive what has been ordered, or is it right to order and wrong to receive? The information in the public domain is contradictory here, Mr Government, and I would like us to have some answers today. So was there a mistake on the order, and what was the government's and ministries' share? Or was it really the case that only the Security of Supply Centre itself made decisions about what to order and how much? I feel like someone just made this up at the last minute. The IGC report has been announced to be launched. It is now necessary to extend it to include a wider scope of the Supply Security Centre and to cover previous procurements. In my opinion, this mess with protective equipment is so serious that the past needs to be looked at and clarified a little further. Mr President! We've been worried about the tests at the assembly all along. We have wanted more testing, a low-threshold testing, above all care for the elderly, health care, medical care, and we were surprised that this amending budget does not provide any additional money for interest-rate testing. We are proposing an additional budget of 200 million for this test because we will be able to make a good exit strategy for this crisis as quickly as possible. To test, trace and isolate, it must now be the set of measures to be taken at a low threshold. Mr President! When there is a place for thanks, then thanks will be given, and today I would like to thank Minister Li Andersson for teaching. When the schools were decided to close, we had discussions here in the Chamber and even in private, and then you told your colleague, Minister Pekonen, that ‘we have done this’ and that we have done so. These low - income families, whose mother or father has been forced to stay at home since child education became remote education, are now receiving financial support. You have done what you promised, and I believe that many families will accept it with gratitude. I would like to see further work done by you, Mr Andersson, to clarify the criteria for assessing distance learning. Schools are in a bit of a position of uncertainty. Above all, this applies to those young people who are applying for further studies, in that the grades are equal. I personally hope that the municipalities will also distribute these food packages and that it will not depend on the good will of the municipalities or on the decisions made by the municipalities. I hope that there will be national guidance for this. And it is hoped that there will also be fair and good practice in this matter of postgraduate studies, which I think is Minister Kosonen's bread. There's a lot of kids there right now that's pretty worried. Mr President! End sports and culture. Thank you, Mr Kosonen, for opening up this faucet a little bit, which is what sport and exercise need. Unfortunately, that need is much greater. The Olympic Committee estimates that more than 80 million are already being discussed in the spring. And if the big events of the summer in Finland are cancelled, Kuninkuusraut, Neste Rally Finland and many others, the cost will be much higher. And money is needed from the grassroots level, from the gym bandy clubs all the way to the top sport, and I will give you encouragement and support to continue working on this. And by the way, the artists and the bands are also amazed, and actually that is not where this cultural package of yours is going yet. Restaurants are closed, festivals are banned,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u8	Mr President! In fact, I will immediately catch up with this test mentioned by Mr Essaya and Mr Heinonen. No disease can be combated if it is not known where it is and then it means that there should be testing, and there could have been more in this budget as well. We have been talking for weeks now, if not more than a month, about an increase in testing capacity, but an increase in capacity will not help if testing is not increased. That capacity may be 10,000, but if you take 1000 tests a day, it will be of no use, so it would be good to review those test criteria as well. This has been promised, as has already been said, by private health care — they have the opportunity to do this — and by universities. Several universities have agreed to participate in these efforts by providing both personnel for testing and personnel for this tracking. And we should grab these. There's a lot of skilled staff there. In fact, today the Pohjola Hospital tweeted that when they had less work to do, they would be offering their help with tracking. We're gonna need everyone to come with us. But I would have lifted three of the failings I detected in this budget. First of all, thanks for being out of work and for applying for this temporary allowance when there is a child up to 10 years old, but this would also be good to extend to parents of disabled children over 10 years of age, because at that point, for example, if you are a parent who is forced to go to work, you cannot stay at the moment other than unpaid care for your disabled child. I think it would be a good idea to consider whether it should be extended to a higher level for people with disabilities and special children than it has been to this 10 years. The problem now is that a parent has to choose either to make a living or — to protect a special child, his disabled child — to keep him at home and be unpaid there, and that is a rather disproportionate situation. Another very vulnerable group, which was exhausted from this amending budget, is family carers. They currently care for a very large number of people in this country who are at risk, and in fact the availability of services has deteriorated, as have, for example, these family carers' rest periods, because they cannot put their family members in any period of interval therapy in order to breathe for even a moment, because they are at great risk of receiving a corona. Thus, the services have been reduced, there are no breathing breaks, and it would have been nice to see an additional allowance in this amending budget, such as a fixed-term increase in the allowance for informal care, which would allow this family to buy a shopping bag service or a lunch service or a cleaning service or some kind of help that makes it easier for people to spend their lives. In this context, I would really like to raise the transport services of the Social Welfare Act and the Disability Services Act in this debate. After all, they are now being granted 18 journeys in one direction per month, for example under the Disability Services Act, but unfortunately these transport services cannot be used to ensure that the driver deals on behalf of the person. In practice, we do not have people at risk who go to shops and pharmacies. And here is one such idea, what one might think, so that a risk group member could be at home, he would benefit from it, and then, on the other hand, as we heard here, taxis and transport service companies are in some kind of trouble at the moment, and this, that they could do business without this service provider, could also help them. Then the third thing that was missing here, and which has already caused a considerable amount of public feeling, is the care and other health care staff who are there on the front line to welcome this corona. I think they too fear the virus in the front line, they have risk groups, they are afraid of infecting their loved ones. Perhaps we should have provided the municipality with the kind of money they could have used to pay more dangerous work for this group. Of course, money never replaces health, but the nurse may feel more concrete and comfortable than an illuminated wall, for example. And this is something that must be reminded of the worker's safety, which, of course, involves this matter of protective equipment. The least that can be done is to protect these nurses who go to work there every day. In general, I would like the government to reflect here on this strategy, i.e. whether tough restrictive measures will be taken for a shorter period of time or a short period of time. This short-term scenario has been presented by the Bank of Finland and many experts in virology and medicine. For a shorter time, we would have the chance of a faster recovery, but these long, looser restrictions are life-threatening for both people and the economy. After all, the economy cannot recover if there is no consumption — and one might think that if the disease situation continues as we do, that is, we will not stifle it, then consumption will not rise. People will not risk themselves and their loved ones and especially those at risk in the future if they know that the disease situation is still bad — they do not go to hairdressers, restaurants, and so on. I would hope that the government will try to stamp out this disease by means of firmer restrictions now, so that this situation can be found in the waters without large amounts of human sacrifice and without large amounts of economic collapse.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u9	Mr President! It is important that the government also takes care of people's livelihood and well-being in the midst of the crisis. By means of an amending budget, the Government defends jobs and invests in the well-being of people and in supporting families with children in the midst of the crisis. This second amending budget, which has been called the historic major in 2020, places a great deal of effort on people's well-being and livelihoods. The Left Alliance's line is that the costs of this crisis must not be reduced to ordinary people at the same time as banks and larger companies, for example, continue as before. Mr President! The government secures the necessary minimum income for people. A absent parent who is at home with children under 10 years of age who is absent from work may apply for temporary support to secure his or her livelihood. I think this is a really nice and important hand-out for families with children. Entrepreneurs are also brought into the unemployment benefit because of the interest rate, and employees who have been laid off have been removed from their own responsibility days. In addition to previous aid measures, businesses have now received more than EUR 1 billion of additional aid. In addition, the government is presenting a significant package of support for culture and sport. Mr President! The government will replace the municipalities with 547 million now and at least one billion in May. The municipalities have asked: Is this enough? I personally believe that it is very good and important that the state has promised to compensate the municipalities for the loss of income resulting from the interest rate, and I hope that the municipalities will also rely on this. Of course, the economic situation of many small or medium-sized municipalities is already weak and it is therefore important for the State to ensure that municipalities do not face an economic crisis due to an epidemic of interest rates, an excessive situation even with reduced tax revenues. In these difficult times, municipal workers are now holding society up there at grassroots level, and it is therefore important that municipalities have been promised support over the corona and economic crisis. In a difficult economic situation, the public sector must not be the one that strengthens the deteriorating economic cycle by giving notice or lay-off its own employees. The saddest thing has been to hear news, for example, about the lay-offs of school counselors in some municipalities now that they and their support in distance education are especially needed. The May amending budget has promised municipalities a package of subsidies of at least EUR 1 billion, and I would like the government now to consider an incentive mechanism to give special support to those municipalities that do not enter into negotiations because of this temporary economic crisis. Mr President! In these times we are all expected to be flexible. Therefore, I would like to express to the government the hope that the government will also take immediate action to temporarily restrict and moderate the rentals of commercial dwellings. It cannot be that some of the landlords of commercial premises exempt small enterprises from rents for the interest-bearing spring, but one of the landlords requires full rent. Everyone should be involved in these same projects now. Furthermore, I would also like to see a temporary ban on the termination of the rental agreement for residential dwellings on the basis of the delay in paying the rent, because from the point of view of the treatment of the corona epidemic we cannot afford to drive people out of their homes and, at worst, to increase homelessness in an already challenging situation. On these issues, I have submitted an initiative for action a week ago. Of course, they have nothing to do with this amending budget, but it seems unreasonable that, at the same time as entrepreneurs are asking us for support, the state will support them, some of the landlords will not receive these entrepreneurs at all. — — — — Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u10	Mr President! Indeed, it is quite clear that the economy of Finland and indeed the whole of Europe is heading for disaster, and it is no surprise to us here. And as far as Finland is concerned, it is essential that we be able to save those small and slightly larger companies so that we can help those people who have lost their jobs and their livelihoods. This is the situation picture we have at the moment. But it is quite clear that it will require major measures from us in the future. We are currently also having collective bargaining in many areas, and many of these solutions, the wage settlements that will be made, will have a major impact on the success of both the public and private sectors and the economy in the coming years. I would have asked the government when there are several ministers here, what your view of these TES negotiations is and what effect they will have. I myself am quite concerned that now, especially in the private sector, expensive wage solutions have been made in a number of areas, and now, quite clearly, exports are stalling and many other things are going badly in the economy, they will now come into force at a very difficult time. But I would like an answer to this: what does this situation picture look like at the moment?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u11	Mr President! It is good now that, in the context of the amending budget, we can also look at this economic situation in relation to this corona crisis. Of course it is self-evident that health must go ahead, but at the same time we must think very much about what the exit strategy is, because the financial consequences of this will also be considerable. Of course, a Nordic welfare society such as Finland will probably be able to cope with this, including this for the economy, clearly better than the poorer countries, and I also believe that the Anglo-Saxon countries will face greater challenges. And here in itself there are a number of good measures: for example, this unemployment benefit for entrepreneurs, which should remain permanent, is one such thing and, of course, the fact that people on leave have had their own days removed, and this parental allowance, which now comes in this budget — these are good things. In other words, there are things here that have been aimed at helping people to make an acute living, and these are those that I am sure this House will support unanimously. But despite that, there is a risk that there will be interjectors here. And when we go to the business side, it will inevitably happen that even though we have business Finland, elya, Finnvera solutions, it will take time to process the applications, and if this crisis lasts a long time, it may be that the company and the entrepreneur will run out of room for themselves. And I think that this is a really big challenge for the whole system, and in that sense, something like this, as Mr Heinonen said earlier here, for example, the restoration of the alves of the beginning of the year — even if it is not now, no way, completely targeted — would help that acute situation. What I am afraid of here is how many of these viable companies will be left if this is prolonged, and that will, of course, have an impact on employment, which is perhaps something that will still have to be considered. Well, then, as a matter of urgency, I must mention this situation in restaurants and cafes: This is extraordinary, because the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has said very clearly that if the state itself closes its own decisions, then it should also be replaced. I really hope that there will be a solution to this. Of course, we have other sectors, even if tourism, which is de facto in a situation where activities have not been ordered to be stopped, but in practice people have been banned from travelling and borders are closed, so in practice the conditions for action are zero. In other words, even though the majority of companies are in difficulty, these specific sectors, which are then on a total stop, should be particularly taken into account, and that is why I hope that there will be an entirely different solution to it, which the Coalition Party has also presented here. Mr President! It is a good thing that a little has been started here in the field of culture and sport, but just as Mr Heinonen said, this will not be enough, and I understand that Mr Arhinmäki also pointed out that it would be important to have this social support more prominently, because the Olympic Committee has spoken about EUR 80 million at this stage. And now it should be remembered that we cannot afford to allow this civil society to degenerate in this process either, because it will then have a very big impact on people's mental and physical well-being. I hope and believe that there will be a common view here that this issue will be raised. Well, then, Mr President, I would also like to point out that now that we are going to the whole of Europe, the countries are being divided into grain and chaff. Among the grains there are those who have previously done well with their state finances. It is precisely the fact that the Finnish economy was set up here during the previous parliamentary term that it is now apparent that we can be in debt without a huge rise in interest rates. In my view, this is something that deserves serious consideration, and it is worth considering in the light of the follow-up that if our starting point in the state economy had been the same as that of Italy or Greece — or even Spain — which recovered somewhat from the crisis but still does not have the same strength — it would not have been possible to take such measures during the crisis, as has been the case now. And this means that we must be able to manage this state economy responsibly when it is a normal time and it is possible for us to prioritise them. And this naturally leads us to the point that, as the Association of Local and Regional Authorities has said, the first thing we need to think about now is what new tasks we need to give the municipalities, that is to say, whether there is a need for a new review of the Government Programme, for example in relation to the extension of compulsory education and other measures which increase the costs of municipalities in a situation where the management of existing tasks requires enormous resources and is strongly on the side of the loss. This issue must be considered and weighed up so as not to be in such a situation — when no one knows how long this crisis will last, what crises we will be facing in the future — that we will be badly prepared for the next crises. That is why it is extremely important to look after government finances. And ultimately, what guarantees that such a Nordic welfare society will survive and be able to provide for the daily livelihood and living of people is that we do not put too much funding into these prunes but see what is at the heart of it and focus on it.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u12	Mr President! In times of crisis, it would be easy to fall into darkness in the flood of bad news. In Finland too, too many people already know of their own situation that no support schemes will save their livelihoods from collapse and loss of work or business. Yet we Finns have every reason to look to the future with hope. Although the expertise and preparedness of the authorities has been weakened in the last decade by cuts and, for example, high-quality and profitable production of protective equipment has been sold out of the country, the Finnish welfare state is better able to protect people from other types of social systems. Those countries that have trusted the market to handle everything are now in trouble. In many countries people cannot afford treatment or sick leave. Of course, the worst situation is found in the poorest countries, where risk groups live closely with others and health services are not available at all. In times of crisis, not only a strong welfare state is needed but also responsible decision-makers. I have been pleased that we have a government just like the one we have at the moment. The crisis has been tackled with determination and, in the light of current information, restrictive measures have been taken in a timely manner. However, as long as the virus lives in the world and there is no vaccine or resistance, we will have to limit normal living. Restrictive measures are necessary, but they also have a huge price tag. The Finnish state receives an interest-free loan, and it makes sense for all of us that the worst blow is now being taken by the state. It is very important that the government has gone to support those who are unemployed, laid off, companies and municipalities. This amending budget is an important part of coping with the crisis, although this will not be enough. The most important thing is that the measures are balanced and targeted fairly. It has been a pleasure to hear how much of the opposition has also supported the government. Almost unanimously it has been repeated that we do not want to repeat the mistakes of the 1990s. At that time, workers, entrepreneurs and children were made to pay for the mistakes of politicians and bank owners were saved instead of jobs. The worst blow in the early stages of the crisis has hit the service sectors. In the future, the problems will also start to accumulate in industry. At the moment, the only option is to keep a closed society in hose feeding, but when we start to get out of an acute crisis situation, we need a big stimulus package to prevent a long recession. The stimulus to job creation pays for itself quickly and, in the longer term, investment in people comes back many times more when people are not replaced like the 1990s. Mr President! The second, historicly large, amending budget for 2020 will invest as much as EUR 4 billion in people's well-being and livelihood, and it is important for the Left Alliance not only to invest in companies but also in people's well-being: one and a half billion will be spent on securing livelihoods. An important opening is a completely new support system for children under 10 years of age when a absent parent can apply for temporary support to secure his or her livelihood. Unfortunately, the benefit only compensates for part of the loss of income, but the most important thing is that this will enable support to be mobilised soon. Normally, it takes years to prepare for new forms of support, so we must praise Minister Pekos, who has made this happen. In addition to supporting parents who have left work, it is important that entrepreneurs are now also included in unemployment benefit and those who have been laid off are excluded. In fact, aid funds will be of no use if they cannot be distributed quickly. Kela's operating resources will now be increased by 40 million and the unemployment funds by 20 million in order to ensure smooth handling and reasonable processing times. I am afraid that these amounts are not enough. It takes time to hire and train the employees of Kela and the cashiers, and people who have fallen on empty have no time to wait. An illustrative example is the fact that the Assembly has already raised the issue of the refund of VAT on several occasions as a quick way of supporting companies, even though we in the committee have been told on several occasions that it would take months to build this system. We have to do everything we can to ensure that those who need support also receive it, and if someone accidentally gets a few tens too much, then that is a small problem that can be dealt with afterwards. We now need flexibility and not strict compliance with the normal rules of bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u13	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u14	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u15	Mr President! This second amending budget will make education, education, culture and physical activity easier by less than EUR 70 million. The matriculation examination was carried out under abnormal conditions this spring at the very beginning of the restriction measures. This situation may have made it more difficult for trainees suffering from learning difficulties or difficulties in concentrating to succeed. Some of the abiturians did their final experiments in a hurry, which certainly made it difficult to prepare for the last minute. It is right and reasonable that funding will allow free renewal of the matriculation examination next autumn. Korona has hit heavily on cultural, physical and sports players. Thank you very much to Minister Kosonen for the fact that the amount of less than EUR 20 million is now being granted grants for sports and social activities and for securing the activities of sports training centres. Children and young people need healthy hobbies and guided exercise even after the corona — yes, it is good to tune them in differently even during the epidemic. Let's take care of civil society. Circumstances have increased the risk of exclusion among our children and young people. Some of the families are tough. Young people’s workshop activities and outreach youth work will receive an additional EUR 1.5 million to the additional costs of the interest rate. Their work is needed to find those who fall from the sled at a distance and to pick them back up from the path of exclusion. It's important that we keep everyone involved. Work to prevent exclusion is also carried out by many educational institutions for liberal education, such as folk high schools. It is a good thing that the government is prepared to compensate for the net losses resulting from the interest of educational institutions in liberal education. I hope that these amounts will come to the third supplementary budget for spring at the latest. I am also concerned that the cancelled courses of educational institutions will not reduce their central government shares in the coming years. The development and education of oneself should not be forgotten in exceptional circumstances. When many activities are at a stop, we must not forget that life goes on even after the corona. We need versatile stimulation, education and learning. Together, we will take care of free civilised work, as it is needed to remedy the damage caused by this crisis and to implement continuous learning more and more. Continuous learning is an effective remedy for overcoming this crisis. Mr President! It is good that the next supplementary budget for spring is planned for a comprehensive operational programme that tackles the negative effects of the corona epidemic and distance learning on learning outcomes, well-being and equal opportunities for children and young people. The less support children and young people receive during the epidemic, the more the need for support will increase after all this. This situation is exacerbated by the lay-offs of guidance and support staff. There are differences between municipalities and schools. We need to prepare carefully for the post-corona treatment. At the same time as drawing up a road map to overcome the sustainability gap, we will not forget continuous learning and the factors for the future of our society. Every child has the right to receive the support he or she needs, both under exceptional circumstances and under normal conditions. Thank you to the Government and Minister Kulmun for the fact that we are building a bridge over the crisis, particularly by supporting small entrepreneurs and municipalities, by maintaining jobs and supporting the livelihood of families. At the same time, let us look further away: believe in the future, invest in continuous learning. I would like to ask Minister Andersson: what composition is the preparation of a comprehensive package of support for children and young people, whether organisations and the third sector have been involved in the preparation of this package, and how is continuous learning involved in crisis management?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u16	In the meantime, I will give the ministers the opportunity to comment with a maximum of 2 minutes' speeches: Mr Kulmuni, Mr Haatainen, Mr Kosonen and Mr Andersson.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u17	Mr President! Thank you for all your important questions and contributions and comments. I will take a few of them in general, to which I can answer as Minister of Finance, but I regret the fact that certainly not all of them have an answer yet, and it is not necessarily available here today. I also appreciate all the contributions that have been made, for example, to this VAT refund at the beginning of the year or to Mr Rantanen's proposal on whether or not to make a change in transport services — of course, all of these we value and are always working on, and with some of us we can move forward, but some of them still need to work, but I appreciate them. Mr Essayah asked about interest rate testing and how business life could be on its way. Certainly business must be able to travel on that journey, because it is terribly important that we now learn that if some have already been ill, then can they go back to work so that we can keep the carts of the economy closed. The government is definitely a partner with business, and we are looking for these common means — for example, in the last amending budget that was discussed here, it was precisely for the tests of antibodies that make it much possible to do so that amounted to EUR 4 million. Of course, in this draft amending budget, the catch has been such that now the funds from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health go to that purchase of protective equipment. Mr Essayah also asked about the European tables. Indeed, the Eurogroup is committed to promoting mechanisms both through the European Investment Bank, in which Finnish companies are also able to apply for funding, and through the Employment Fund, and at this stage, in the light of existing data, around 700 million would be the responsibilities of Finland. But all in all, Finland's responsibilities are quite high also at domestic level, and it is worth worrying about this, too, that Finland has made commitments to many different places at national level as well, and we have much greater responsibilities than many countries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u18	Mr President! The representative, Ms Essayah, asked about the ambiguities surrounding the protection contracts that have occurred at the Security of Supply Centre. This concern is shared, and I have taken it upon myself. When the matter came up in public on Thursday, when I myself learned of these ambiguities, I immediately asked the Board of the Security of Supply Centre to report on what has happened and also to bring it to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The Security of Supply Centre is an independent institution, it has its own board of directors, and there is a CEO. Well, the next day, last Friday, the CEO then filed a letter of resignation with the Ministry, which I accepted. We also had a conversation with him, and he had come to the conclusion that he resigned because there had been negligence and also negligence in internal affairs. Since then, I appointed Janne Känkänen, Director of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, as interim Managing Director of the Emergency Supply Agency, and he has since served as interim Managing Director. The Board of the Security of Supply Centre is currently meeting and going through what has been achieved these days through the survey, and this report will now be brought to the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. It must be ensured that all the activities carried out by state institutions are governed by existing operating rules and guidelines, and that is what I want the answer to. As regards these details and these shops, as Minister, I cannot, of course, respond to them in this situation. I look forward to this report which is now coming from there.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u19	Mr President! Thank you for your comments and questions regarding the cultural and sports package. It is quite clear that culture and sport are important elements when we are mentally trying to overcome this crisis, but also after the crisis when we are building new ones. This package is precisely a loss for the period up to 31 May, which is what is coming in this area. The aim was to collect, in cooperation with these players, a package that will come into the category of aid that no one will be able to fall between these various forms of aid which we have to deal with, such as aid for business and the flexibility of the unemployment period. In cooperation with these actors, we have worked for three weeks and ended up with these figures. We must then, of course, see how these subsidies will be sufficient during this period of application. Representative Heinoselle: This has also taken into account artists and various cultural actors on a very broad scale. Of course, there is an opportunity for them to apply for business subsidies if they are business-based players, but also for this entity, and that is why it is such a large entity for such free groups, freelancers, business name operators, culture. There were comments from the sports department that this about 20 million is not enough. Of course, that remains to be seen. Most of it is, of course, for basic club activities, but we also have the idea of supporting these professional sports shows, especially professional athletes, as part of this. Universities and higher education institutions. The universities of applied sciences have made a decision to transfer and change the selection tests in such a way that such large mass selection tests will not now take place,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u20	Mr President! Many of the speakers expressed concern about the survival and survival of families and also stressed the importance of student support and, among other things, school meals, and these are extremely important remarks and also shared concerns which have been discussed several times in this Chamber. Today I attended a video conference with the EU Ministers of Education, and it was interesting to note that in all countries the same types of problems and challenges are being considered in relation to this distance learning period, namely, above all, how to support the learning of pupils who come from more difficult family conditions. One key response to this government is this package of support for children and young people, which is currently being prepared. OKM is in charge of it, but we also want to be strongly involved by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health so that family work is also seen as one of its priorities. Surely, if the timetable allows — we have a rather busy schedule — we would also be happy to listen to what organizations, for example, have to offer. The role and importance of this support package is to support and safeguard the right of all children and pupils to receive, among other things, additional and support education after the distance learning period. The continuing learning that was asked about will also be one part of the answers we will use to meet the challenges of this crisis. This is also reflected in the public finance plan, which invested more in continuous learning, and this is also important, of course, because the structural challenges that we face in Finland on the labour market, for example in relation to the lack of skills, have not disappeared anywhere. Those same questions, those same problems are before us when this most acute crisis is over, and that is why it is also important that we stick to this historic reform, that is, the extension of compulsory education, because there is just as much need for it now and in the future, if not even greater than what was at the beginning of this reign.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u21	Mr President! The finances of municipalities have been very tight in the past, and now, in the context of the interest rate crisis, the economy is still tightening. Together with the municipalities and the Association of Local and Regional Authorities, we have made estimates throughout the weeks, these interest rate periods, and have assessed the tax losses, the loss of payment income and the increasing costs. On the basis of these, therefore, this amending budget now contains the 547 million which will be temporarily compensated for the delay in payment revenue, tax payments, and then, in May, we will be preparing an amending budget with four different elements: direct aid to the medical districts, state aid, increases in discretionary state contributions and changes in the corporate tax rate. In all of these, we will have criteria so that they will be specific to the costs of the interest rate. Unfortunately, with these packages we are unable to meet the other challenges of local government finances. We met those challenges a little early in the year when this government added a package of approximately EUR 1 billion to the funding of the municipalities, but now we are temporarily adding this EUR 547 million and then a billion, and it has been promised that we will look at the situation in the August budget debate, when we will see estimates of the real costs that are coming, because unfortunately, some of the costs of, for example, hospital districts and basic health care will be transferred to 21, when these unsolicited treatments, which are now not being treated, will be transferred there for the next few years. That is why, in August, we hope to be much better off on the map of what the costs are.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u22	Mr President! In this amending budget there will be a relatively large package for the company, some 450 million will come directly to the grant, which means that we will have a total of 1.45 billion on the side of the grants. There will also be additions to the loan side in such a way that we will then have different offers on the Tes and Business Finland side, for a total of 1.9 billion. The problem is clearly how we can quickly get that money to the world, because, just as Mr Essayah asked in his question, we do not have a system that is prepared to fund it in such an exceptional situation for the world. If we think that the Ely Centres currently have around 10,000 applications for funding, then everyone understands that the machinery for which they have been made will not succeed in the week or two that it has been — it has been in force since the last day of March. That is why in the amending budget we will now also receive 7.5 for recruitment and other costs in the Ely Centres and 10 million for Business Finland. This will require simplification, flexibility in the granting of life, and that is what I am working on at the moment, and I hope that more guidance will be given this week to the Elles about how they can give this funding lighter. Everyone respects and knows the responsibility of civil servants for decision-making, including on the ely side. We can't go to them to take it away. But they must have in a certain way a lighter process that can speed up, because if we really have 10,000 applications on the list at the moment, everyone will realize that it takes years to process such a number, so we have to move forward here. Business Finland's side is working relatively well at the moment, but I fear that in May we will be approaching with an even bigger package.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u23	To the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u24	Mr President! A big thank you to the ministers for these answers and comments. The raising of employment rates and the balance of public finances have been the top priorities of many governments in recent years. The interest-rate crisis has temporarily put these objectives aside. Now we are increasing state spending so that Finland can be removed from the crisis with minimal human and financial damage. Of course, it is important that we get on our feet and on the growth path as quickly as possible. Employment and the balancing of public finances will again come before us and are absolutely essential targets in the long run. However, Korona turned many things upside down. However, this debt must also be repaid, but it will make us more able to do so in the future. This year's second amending budget focuses almost exclusively on the acute management of the corona crisis. For example, the costs for health care required by the interest rate are reimbursed and are not excluded from other activities. A significant additional allocation has been allocated to the purchase of protective equipment, equipment and medicines through the Security of Supply Centre. Above all, the domestic manufacture of protective equipment has been mobilised, which is a very important and important issue in terms of security of supply. As we have heard, the amending budget provides people with a total income of more than EUR 1 billion. A very important point is that the many parents aged under 10 who have lost their earned income who have not been paid to take care of their children at home are also receiving support. In the past, it has been agreed, among other things, that entrepreneurs should be entitled to unemployment benefit. Mr President! The Finnish economy is in an intensive care phase. Support for businesses will continue through both direct support, loans and guarantees. Interest-bearing contributions to enterprises are calculated in billions. The aim is, of course, to prevent large-scale large-scale unemployment and bankruptcies, and of course the aim is to enable viable companies and the country as a whole to overcome the crisis. President! As Minister Paatero well described, many municipalities are also, could you say, babbling? The tax losses of municipalities are now being compensated for by half a billion, and at least one billion aid packages are being prepared for the May amending budget. I am also pleased that, under the leadership of Minister Kosonen, cultural, physical and youth workers are supported by some EUR 60 million. It is estimated that government debt will increase by tens of billions of euros as a result of the interest rate. However, the country on its knees must be helped. We do not yet know the exact date for the resolution of this crisis. Of course, ignorance distresses us all and makes us all impatient. President! I hope that the cooperation with which we have responded to this crisis will also be able to extend the post-crisis period of a new upturn. We will experience human sorrow and economic suffering, but also learn new things. The effects of the interest rate will certainly still be felt long after the crisis, but there will also be a time when things will be better than ever before.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u25	Mr President! In the past, Mr Heinonen mentioned, among other things, the possibility of returning VAT to businesses as a quick way of facilitating the cash flow of companies. On the left side, Mr Saramo made a somewhat more sceptical speech, saying that this was a task of months. According to our reports, the Group of the European People's Party, it is possible to do this on a very fast schedule. If we had gone, it would be already in use, but it is still not too late. In cooperation with the banks, for example, the bank will be able to borrow money for the future refund of VAT, and banks will now have a very different voluntary spirit than in the 1990s, for example, so that the government will continue to use this method if it so wishes. The second point relates to these security of supply issues. Seaman-Union on 10 April this month writes on his website about the sale of Finland's largest crude oil tanker to Sweden last year and wonders why it was sold and asks what the criteria were. They have not received any answers; silence has been exercised. The salespersons and parties have been the Supply Security Centre and Ilmarinen. So now that we have found that these protective equipment is very competitive and the countries are very selfish, operating in an environment such as the law of the jungle, how is this oil matter thought to be handled if the situation was bad? It would be nice to have the answer to this Seaman Union's concern. In the past, Mr Essayah also spoke about the operation of the Emergency Supply Agency and the possible tasks that we should do in order to correct any possible shortcomings, if any, in the future. Things are now being done under time pressure and in haste. Mistakes happen, but you also have to learn from them. For my part, I would like to say that we have a constitution in Parliament. The Constitution defines five compulsory committees, and the Audit Committee is one of them. The Audit Committee is an exceptional committee in that it can take matters for its own consideration, make a report on them and bring them here to the Chamber for debate. In addition, the Audit Committee has extensive access rights under the Constitution, and the right to information also applies to confidential information held by state enterprises, institutions and agencies. The committee will receive confidential material if it understands them. In this respect, when this acute crisis is over, it will be an important task for the Audit Committee to see what matters are going to be dealt with, whether the Audit Committee may have to look through its own Rules of Procedure for the remainder of the election period in what needs to be raised. Personally, I would argue that matters relating to management, the flow of information, communication, security of supply — things of this kind — should be seen in a constructive spirit in the committee, not with a guilty spirit, but in a constructive spirit. The role of the Audit Committee, as well as the role of the Constitutional Committee, is to seek consensus, not to go through the votes, but to think about the interests of the country and the common good, and that is what I myself want to bring. I do not want to make this point in the way that I blame it. Minister Lintilä has left, but perhaps Minister Kulmuni will be able to answer or take a little catch on this matter. First of all, thank you: during Easter I was in contact with many companies, and many of the companies said that the decisions came on Easter holidays. Thank you so much for this. In the midst of the crisis in our administration, it is surprisingly slow to bend to such a position as it should be. Work was done on Easter holidays, decisions were made, and a few entrepreneurs were almost moved by the fact that this was at all true, and it was true. Thank you for that, and thank you to those officials who have done things there. Then the question and the proposal for improvement, when Business Finland works in the same way under time pressure and there are plenty of applications, they have a maximum amount of development money of EUR 100,000. Now the entrepreneur's point of view here: The cash register is empty, the staff is dismissed, but the expenses run. The cash flow is negative all the time, we are already on the negative side, and it is a matter of weeks, actually days, whether to put an end to the company, to 10 to 15 people all out of work or to try to hold on. The entrepreneur is now fighting here with himself, how much he can handle the future loss and uncertainty. We have no idea when the decision from Business Finland will come. There's a promise that it'll be here by April 30th. Two weeks is a long time to wait. And in view of the fact that once the decision has come, of course they will have to wonder whether the customers will come back and because they will be allowed to come back at all. The entrepreneur's message was that if they got the 100,000 euros of that development money in just a few days, as we would go three months ahead, the employment of 10 to 15 people would have been secured. Now, here is the question: is there any way to put them in order in Business Finland, is it possible to assess what is quite acute, which at that very moment needs a quick decision to do so? Then for the development money: The development money means that you have to have a new plan and it does not replace cash flow, but when the cash register is empty, you go negative, so the entrepreneur does not have the strength and certainly does not have the motivation to go into a new business when you try to keep your nose on the surface and get enough air to keep the spirit alive. So that's what it's all about. But thank you for the work you've done, and for the will to fight.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u26	Mr President! This draft amending budget is necessary, and I am sure we will all agree on that. In the opposition, we support the government's proposals that are correct in this amending budget, for example regarding the health and economic effects of the interest rate. This amending budget contains important and worthwhile expenditure increases in the form of unemployment benefits, health expenditure and support for municipalities. The government’s estimate of the decrease in tax revenues and the increase in expenditure is likely to be fairly correct. After all, we can disagree on the details, and the opposition must also carry out the task of the opposition during exceptional circumstances. By questioning the opposition, they want to challenge the government for ever better and to monitor the government's actions. Mr President! Less than a year ago, the government was not affected by the sustainability gap or by the deteriorating economic conditions when it drew up its rather generous government programme. The economy had to grow, and spending money for all the fun had to pay for itself. Well, now there is no more room for all the fun and the government debt is growing to a staggering degree, about EUR 9.4 billion. Of course, this is not the government's own fault, but the government must also react in such a way as to update the government programme as quickly as possible. It is quite clear that Finland will not be able to afford, for example, an extension of compulsory education over the next few years. The government should also abandon any increase in energy taxes and fuel taxes which would further undermine the already weakened livelihoods of citizens. Mr President! Despite the government's calls, negotiations have been initiated in many municipalities due to the corona crisis. These municipalities are widely located around Finland, but especially where the economic situation was weak even before the crisis. In many municipalities, layoffs, redundancies and company closures, and the resulting collapse of tax revenues, already endanger the financing of basic services. When municipalities also lay off or lay off, the financial distress deepens further. The aid promised to the municipalities is to be deducted from support for subsequent years, which means that in practice the situation will not be any easier in the coming years. What does the government do to ensure that Finland outside the growth centres does not become miserable as a result of the corona crisis? Mr President! In this speech I would like to raise an important bottleneck which I think would be reasonable to change and thus make life easier for many people. This is the operating expenditure of the Employment and Economic Development Offices, where the problem is not so much the amount of money but the chosen course of action. When each individual made redundant/dismissed itemrequires a specific labour policy opinion,the TE Offices shall form an additional contribution without prejudice to the bottleneck which people do not needfor In order not to create this bottleneck, a statement could be made: ‘In order to lay down, on a fixed-term basis, anexemption law in force at the end of the year, which would not require a separate labour policy opinion from each worker who has been or has beendiscussed as a result This would significantly reduce the workload of TE Offices and speed up the payment of subsidies. Mr President! The Minister of Finance said earlier in his speech that lessons have been learned from the crisis in the early 1990s and that thanks to the stability of the euro, the country will receive cheap loan money. This is real. It is also true that Finland has negotiated with the finance ministers of the euro countries how to save the euro. Finland’s responsibilities were just said to be about 700 million. It is also possible that the whole euro area will face problems regardless of Finland's own activities. Italy has already flashed a distinction between the euro area and even the EU as a whole, and the moods in Spain may not differ much. If a large Member State such as Italy or Spain leaves the euro or withdraws from the Union, it will place serious questions on the future of the euro area as a whole. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, Mr Kulmun: is Finland prepared for the possibility that, as a result of the economic crisis following the corona crisis, the euro area will break down? Does Finland have the capacity to introduce its own currency at short notice, if necessary, and to manage its payment transactions independently, regardless of the systems administered by other Member States in the euro area? Mr President! At the end of this speech I sincerely wish you all government ministers — there are now two of you there, but you will probably take your regards — strength and strength. I know you've been working around for the corona crisis, and I want to wish you the strength to do your job. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u27	Mr President! The economic crisis caused by an epidemic of interest rates is severely affecting, among other things, entrepreneurs, service workers and the cultural sector, but is increasingly reflected in our society. The government supports in many ways those people who have been hit by the crisis. They want to secure basic income for everyone. The gaps in social security will be blocked as they become apparent. This budget provides a new form of support for parents who are unpaid absent from paid employment to care for children under 10 years of age at home. Overall, the amending budget will allocate EUR 1.5 billion more money to secure people's livelihoods. Mr President! The government’s second amending budget to alleviate the economic crisis caused by the corona virus will bring relief to many sectors that have not yet received support for the loss of income caused by the epidemic. The distress of the municipalities has been reacted to, and they receive their first aid package. The majority of municipalities were experiencing a weak economic situation even before the corona. The Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities has estimated that the interest rate will weaken local government finances by at least EUR 1.5 billion this year. Tax and payment income of municipalities decreases while social and health expenditure increases. Now, this amending budget compensates municipalities for tax deferrals of EUR 547 million. This is an important first step, but it is even more important in the May amending budget that a package of subsidies of at least EUR 1 billion be allocated to municipalities. In Uusimaa alone, HUS has estimated the total economic impact of the coronavirus epidemic to be about EUR 200 million. We need good, close cooperation and confidence building. The content of the May support package needs to be fleshed out as soon as possible, together with municipalities, so that municipalities can take the support measures into account in their plans. The epidemic affects different municipalities in a different way. It is therefore important that the euro support is allocated according to real expenditure and needs, and that is what is being well targeted at now, under the leadership of Minister Paatero. Mr President! Secondly, I would like to raise support for culture, physical activity and youth work. The amending budget will provide EUR 60 million in support of these sectors. Culture and sport are areas where much work is done as freelancers and with grants and sponsors. It makes them vulnerable in the midst of a corona crisis. Government subsidies, for example, to compensate for the loss of ticket revenues and to ensure the functioning of sports clubs are really needed. The importance of culture and physical activity for the well-being of people is emphasised during physical isolation. Thank you to all cultural and sports operators who have created new forms of culture and exercise in electronic channels under exceptional circumstances. This amending budget will contribute to economic conditions for these actions. It is important to ensure that we have artists and athletes in different fields, diverse museum activities and cultural and sports hobbies even after the corona crisis. An increase of EUR 2.5 million is proposed for grants to youth organisations and youth centres and an increase of EUR 1.5 million for youth workshops and outreach youth work. Youth workers do invaluable work in caring for the well - being of young people and in preventing social exclusion in situations where young people are isolated, perhaps in unsafe homes, schooling at a distance may be tangled and loneliness distresses, the future frightens them. In these areas, the role of the third sector and civil society is also very important and their operating conditions must be safeguarded. Mr President! Thirdly, I would like to raise the issue of additional subsidies for entrepreneurs and, in particular, the status of self-employed persons. The amending budget will allow more subsidies for businesses and entrepreneurs whose customers and incomes have been deprived of interest. It is very important to ensure that the application for all aid is simple and smooth for entrepreneurs. Now, on the basis of many feedbacks, the application process for sole entrepreneurs is still too difficult and slow. The Finnish Federation of Women's Organisations, the Family Federation, the Marttaliitto, Finnish Entrepreneurs' Women and Mothers in Business appeal today to the Government to safeguard the position of women as entrepreneurs. For example, new self-employed persons and those who have recently taken family leave are at risk of being deprived of subsidies. It is therefore important that these concerns and problems in the support processes are taken into account and that the processes are further improved so that they are also available to all companies in need of support. It is important that we do not now allow companies in difficulty because of the interest rate to fall. Mr President! This amending budget all supports us in securing people's health, well-being and livelihood beyond this corona crisis. At the same time, it is important to create an exit strategy for Finland to overcome this crisis with minimal human and financial damage. In this work, extensive testing and tracing of transmission chains are of great importance. And I am raising the broader perspective: last week the Government also confirmed that it will adhere to the climate objectives of the Government Programme. It is therefore important that the economic stimulus measures that will subsequently be outlined support people's employment and Finland's transition to a carbon-neutral welfare state.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u28	Mr President! The great efforts made by Prime Minister Marin's government to combat the damage caused by the corona crisis are necessary. However, this massive burden of debt remains to be borne by both this and future governments. Parliament has unanimously given the Marin Government extensive powers of exception, and I therefore hope that the government will take the attitude of negotiating this historic amending budget, as well as future remedies, jointly between parties across the government-opposition line. In order to prevent the corona epidemic from becoming a long-term open bar to repeated additional billion-dollar debts, strong measures are needed to overcome the epidemic. It would now be important to bring together public and private sector actors in order to increase the testing capacity. These testing possibilities also need to be better informed and the threshold for testing further lowered. Although, Minister Kulmuni, you assured us that there is obviously also a desire for private operators to participate in this testing capacity, private health companies have said that the aid offered for interest rate testing has not been accepted by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. I hope you will comment on your assessment of the basis of this criticism. The government should now clearly express a change in the strategy of the corona epidemic, which, instead of a previous policy of holding back and lowering the curve, is moving towards suppressing the epidemic with this very active testing, tracking the transmission chains and quarantine. And yes, these tests should be gradually extended to the entire population. The mobile application for this tracking should also be made available and then, of course, those who have fallen ill will be treated and subjected to quarantine. Well, it is good that resources are now being increased for the purchase of protective equipment in this amending budget, but these protective equipment should be provided so much that not only health care and other professionals, but also in shops, transport and other public places, can also be protected by facial masks. These masks, including made-up masks or scarves, do not prevent infection, but they protect others from the infectivity of an asymptomatic mask wearer, on the principle of ‘you protect me as a protective agent’. This would create the conditions for a faster crackdown on restrictions that paralyze society as a whole and reduce civil liberties. Many countries have now made these masks or strong recommendations, not only for Asian countries, but also for example Austria, the Czech Republic, now also for the United States. The World Health Organisation has also changed its position and stated that these homemade masks protect you, as the infection may be caused by the air of the carrier of the asymptomatic corona virus, and so now the Director-General of THL Markku Tervahauta runs counter to the earlier THL positions recommended the use of the mask. I therefore hope that you, as a government, will make a strong recommendation on the use of facial masks, for example for the use of these fabrics, self-made, or scarf, in public places, for example, as a condition for access to trade. I think this would be very important if we decided to abandon this isolation in Uusimaa. This use of masks has been underestimated by the fact that they are currently not even sufficient for health care, but if they protect within hospitals or nursing homes, why not protect elsewhere? That is why I call on the government to issue such a recommendation, because during this time the public is listening to the recommendations. We have seen this, among other things, when Minister Li Andersson made a recommendation to the parents of first- and third-graders to keep the children home in remote education. It has been very well listened to, and I believe that this mask would also be listened to if the government gave it. It only works if it is widely used, so that everyone is protected by these masks — for example, that I myself have now come here with a mask on my face — would not have helped in this prevention of infection. Well, I also think that these protective devices, which now have additional contributions, thanks to the government, are coming — and hopefully there will also be curative goods from China and we will have this own production started — and so are these tests and the traceability mechanism, because even if we get the corona virus completely eradicated in Finland now with a total lockdown, we could have new infections at any time, for example in Sweden, where this interest rate policy has been considerably looser. And then, in order to manage this possible second stage of the epidemic, it requires these mechanisms, both this protection, extensive protection and testing procedures. Of course, we should try to get rid of these total internal restrictions as soon as possible, so that we do not shrivel up society and this debt has to continue to increase. But in this context, Mr President, I am still surprised that the government wanted to confirm that the many outdated principles of the government programme drawn up a year ago under very different circumstances are still being adhered to. It would now be necessary to reform the government programme without prejudice and without a charge of authority. For example, distance education in schools and educational institutions and early childhood education interruptions provide the necessary support for marginalised children and young people, and the resources available are needed for special education and support for education, which is why we should now abandon the ideological and costly proposal to raise the age of compulsory education. President! I would also like to say that I am also a member of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u29	Mr President! The amending budget under discussion is based on the assumption that the impact of this corona virus will fade and that the economy will recover in this latter part of 2020. Of course, it is very difficult to make these predictions, especially when this is accompanied by these very difficult predictable health effects. As Mr Räsänen said in this previous speech, a wide range of means must be put in place to reduce these infectious factors: different protection mechanisms, extensive testing and monitoring. Let us hope that these measures will help to get rid of such exceptional restrictive measures in a controlled and safe manner, sooner rather than later. Of course, the situation for businesses and households is very difficult, and when we look at the wider economic situation, it seems that there is an economic shock in Europe and elsewhere, but it has a deeper impact. I personally think that such a downturn or crisis would probably have come anyway, but now this corona virus has punctured this very exceptional situation in the economy in this way. When both demand and production stall, a deterioration in the situation of companies will result in different sanctions. This will increase the risk ratings for corporate loans, create write-downs, property values and thus lower collateral values. At the same time, the wave of layoffs and layoffs affects the domestic market. In developed countries, deficits are being torn, as is happening now in Finland. A large number of countries are also facing debt problems. Many developing countries have also reported rather acute debt problems. In the midst of all this situation, the various central banks are issuing thousands and thousands of billions of new money, and this unusual monetary policy can have an unconventional impact on the wider economy. I think that this is not just an event in which the economy will return to normal as the restrictions are lifted, but, unfortunately, there will be various disruptions and damage and, possibly, quite exceptional situations. These amending budgets contain various financial measures, but in addition to these fiscal measures, I would also like to highlight the various contingency measures that should be taken in the event of economic disturbances. It is very possible that there will be a crisis in the euro area and its banks. These effects can be reflected in the loan markets, the operational capacity of the euro, Finland's commitments and so on. Therefore, risk assessments and stress tests should be carried out on various guarantee liabilities and commitments in the public sector and should also ensure that Finland’s financial position and assets are not jeopardised as a result of them or as a result of future decisions. Representative Antikainen here recently raised the issue of the functioning of this payment service and, if you think about it, perhaps it would be worth sacrificing a few ideas for such quite exceptional arrangements too, for example with regard to this payment situation — we are talking about such different systems of reserve payments. I know that experts, for example, have already raised them here in Parliament, and it would be worth clarifying or introducing if necessary, and perhaps they could actually be useful for financial transport in any case. For example, the Central Bank of Sweden is starting to test this kind of digital central bank money right now, last month in fact, and there will be a mobile phone application to be tested, where you could make bank transfers with your own separate central bank digital payment system, regardless of this general payment system. Such an arrangement would most likely work, even if the entire other payment system were completely frozen. Mr President! Indeed, I hope that, in view of these broader financial risk scenarios, the government will not only take fiscal measures but also these different contingency measures to be resolved. The situation of the Bank of Finland should also be looked at, from the very beginning of that balance sheet to the end, from those gold reserves and Target 2 receivables and various securities purchase programmes and other balance sheet items and investigate their risk situation. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister: will this be the case?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u30	Mr President! According to the draft amending budget under discussion, Finland's economy is expected to decline by 5.5 per cent in 2020, as demand on the export market falls sharply and blocking measures to prevent the spread of the virus restrict mobility and business in Finland. All demand items are decreasing, most strongly exports, private investments and private consumption. In turn, public investment and public consumption are increasing. In the administrative branch of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, additional allowances have been allocated to housing allowance, basic income support and the central government share of the earnings-related and rotation allowance for unemployment benefits as well as to the central government share of the basic unemployment benefit security. Since the Government is submitting to Parliament a proposal for a law on temporary support to be paid to someone absent from work due to the corona virus epidemic, it is also subject to an increase in appropriations in this draft amending budget. The purpose of the amendment is to compensate for the loss of pay for the parent as a result of combating the corona virus epidemic. The appropriation for basic security of unemployment benefits is increasing. Part of the increase is due to measures related to the corona virus epidemic, the increase in the number of unemployed and lay-offs, and the fact that the Government will submit to Parliament a proposal for a temporary amendment to the Unemployment Protection Act in the form of labour market support for entrepreneurs, even if business activities are not discontinued. All these measures will certainly be needed. Mr President! The number of beneficiaries is increasing considerably and it is also essential to ensure that benefits can be paid without delay. It is necessary that the government immediately examines the means to streamline the treatment of unemployment benefits and aid to self-employed persons, while ensuring that the benefits paid by unemployment funds, the Social Insurance Institution and municipalities are implemented in such a way that the benefits can be paid without delay and, if possible, as an advance, so that the necessary explanations can be provided afterwards. The importance of municipalities is emphasised in the management of the epidemic situation. There is a significant increase in spending in municipalities on the treatment and preparedness of patients infected with coronavirus. Social and health care expenditure will increase as a result of both treatment measures and measures to prevent the spread of the virus. Additional costs include additional staff and overtime, hiring replacements, hiring staff, additional facilities, auxiliary medicines and accessories. Although measures for non-urgent management are not implemented and passed on in an epidemic situation, this will only mitigate the cost implications of urgent measures in the short term. Mr President! The Corona virus epidemic is causing a significant drop in municipal tax revenue, estimated at EUR 1 billion. The draft law amending the Act on central government transfers of basic municipal services partially facilitates the situation of municipalities, but it does not compensate municipalities for the other economic effects of the corona epidemic or the poor general state of the local government finances. Therefore, municipalities need significant other compensations and support measures, which should also be adequately taken into account in the spending limits debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u31	Mr President! Due to the corona virus epidemic, a person absent from work who is unpaid may apply for temporary support. An amount of EUR 94 million is now being earmarked for this measure. The aid would apply to situations where a child entitled to early childhood education or contact education in basic education is also taken care of at home during exceptional circumstances. From this I might ask how to consider families whose children are over 10 years old but may not get along alone for a moment and the parent must stay home without pay. This group includes a large number of special children and adolescents with disabilities or long-term illness. An increase of EUR 41 million is proposed for Kela's operating expenses. The additional need arises from the increasing costs of benefits and customer service, the additional IT costs and the additional administrative costs caused by the increased unemployment security for entrepreneurs. During the last government term, it was suggested that the banking and payment account control system would speed up and enhance the work of the authorities. In accordance with the proposal of the Board of Directors, Kela would have received the account information electronically. But the show didn't go through. Minister Kulmuni replied to my written question that the Ministry of Finance no longer intends to examine the matter in future. But do you think you should do something now? Kela needs more than 40 million additional money for the administration alone and for the dismantling of congestion resulting from the treatment of benefits. If we had automated systems, already congested services would not be in such trouble. After exceptional circumstances, it must be ensured that the skills gap will be filled. In particular, the need for support education and special education will be great and sufficient resources must be made available for this. Such preventive measures are always cheaper than remedying the problems that have already been identified. Minister Andersson has said that the aid package is envisaged for the May amending budget. Since there are no funds in this latest additional budget, it is true that the money will be available in May? Can Minister Kulmuni answer this question? - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u32	Mr President! There are many legitimate points in the amending budget. I hope that these large sums can be repaid once in a while when the debt is being taken out of hand. However, dealing with the crisis now requires additional investment in the economy and entrepreneurship, so that there will be a new rise in the future. However, the specific measures proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy for restaurant entrepreneurs in its report are still missing from this list. I would remind you that Parliament has required that the government take action without delay. The clock's ticking, but we're still on the clock. An increase of EUR 150 million is proposed in the additional budget for municipalities to support sole entrepreneurs, which is necessary money. Support is now being applied for in different parts of Finland at a fast pace. However, the determination of the sole entrepreneur has raised a number of questions and will become contacts. Indeed, on the website of the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, the sole entrepreneur refers to an economic activity that does not have a paid labour force. Entrepreneurship shall be considered according to the applicant’s situation at the time of application, i.e. when applying for this aid currently available. If an entrepreneur employs between 1 and 5 people in addition to himself but has laid off his employees, he is not, according to the interpretation of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industrial Policy, an sole entrepreneur. If, at the time of application, the entrepreneur has dismissed his or her employees and does not employ others, he or she is considered to be an sole entrepreneur. In Finnish, the Ministry of Employment and the Economy encourages an entrepreneur who is now in a difficult situation to fire his only employee in order to survive financial support. That's what this means. Is this the purpose of the government? Mr President! Then there's something else. The second question concerns an additional EUR 30 million for businesses in rural areas and an additional EUR 10 million for fisheries. These are the necessary appropriations. This is also the subject of a clear question which has come quite clearly from the north: do farmers in rural areas, for example, who serve fur farms, feed kitchens belong to this whole? After all, the crisis has made it more difficult to obtain foreign fish. Domestic fish are used if it is overtaken, but the cost is going to get out of hand. However, food security is part of animal welfare. What is the Government's policy on this issue is expected to be answered in Ostrobothnia. And then there's third. What is the situation with regard to the availability of seasonal agricultural labour? After all, this was discussed a week or two ago very much. There is now a need for immediate action — not now, not in June, but now — and, at least, according to the contacts that have come to me, we have not yet reached a very clear solution to this issue. This whole requires the incentive to take up work — in Finland — and the activation of domestic labour. There is now also a need to clarify seasonal work more broadly in the case of foreign labour. What does that mean? After all, there has been a great deal of talk in this Chamber about strawberry picking, tomato growing and so on, about important issues, but when farms have very wide-ranging seasonal labour, is this about facilitating seasonal labour permits for foreign labour, such as drainage, farm maintenance, domestic energy production and so on? All of these are expected to be answered by the government. Agriculture is already in a difficult situation as prices for agricultural products on the world market fall. Now this trend seems to be really this way. As a result, the list is long for the government, but one-off investments are also needed to facilitate the economic situation of Finnish farms in order to be able to fulfil the important role they have to play, i.e. to ensure Finland’s food self-sufficiency, a key part of Finland’s security of supply.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u33	Mr President! According to the latest news, the IMF predicts that the world economy will sink into the worst recession since the recession of the 1930s, and similar optimistic but also darker predictions may have been read here. Even domestic discussions and parliamentary hearings have revealed serious concern about Finland’s economy. Even before this crisis, Finland was in debt, and we had many structural reforms whose need has been underlined to this government since the government programme was written, so these structural problems have not disappeared from there, and now, of course, the concern is that billions of dollars in this debt have been owed. It is of course the case that, regardless of the government-position limits, Parliament has now given priority to human health, and it is absolutely essential that, at this point, expenditure is also increased by an additional budget to protect human health and mitigate the effects of the corona crisis, for example, for the business sector and for our healthy, well-being companies, which are now in an exceptionally special situation as a result of the corona crisis, but I would like to say that, in this situation, where a large additional budget is necessary, everything that is now being done is in debt, and we are facing tough times to pay back, and we have to take care of this issue today. That is why, while the Minister is here, I would like you to give us some more insight into the plan that the government intends to address the structural problems we have in the Finnish economy and, first of all, what kind of plan is to build an exit strategy out of the crisis. The shorter the duration of these restrictive measures for companies, the smaller the financial damage, of course, and then we know that it may well be that the current strategy chosen for these restrictive measures will be very long-term, and therefore the legitimate question would be: what is the precise strategy of the government at the moment with regard to this interest rate? It may not have been communicated clearly enough, because if we are on the present road, which aims to limit the spread of the epidemic, then at the same time we are faced with the fact that, according to forecasts, this will become a path of very long-term restrictions. On the other hand, at the same time, you have flashed, the Prime Minister in particular has flashed, even the dismantling of restrictions, and, in order for such a debate to take place at all, of course, this whole should be communicating very clearly that what is being sought: that is, if restrictions are now relaxed, the disease will spread more quickly. Is it a government strategy, or what kind of strategy is chosen in this situation? There has been a lot of public debate about this way of protecting the herd, immunity and, on the one hand, reducing or limiting the epidemic on the other, with the aim of ensuring, above all, sufficient capacity for health care, and then there has even been a debate about this road of stopping which some countries have tried successfully, but of course there is a risk that society will not be able to be kept permanently closed, and then the other and third waves will be very likely. So now I would like the government to explain very clearly what kind of strategy is now based on this path of the future, and what it means in Finnish also for the Finnish economy and the continuity of these restrictive measures. The second question directly related to this amending budget is this exit strategy also for the economy. This is an example: now this additional budget contains very few elements that would bring any relief directly to this exit strategy, and I am talking here in other words about testing, which, I believe, is the necessary part of that exit strategy for the future, that is, not only good protection, but also good testing and tracing as part of it, of course, so that in future we can consider opening up this society in the longer term. But all this has to do with the lack of an overall strategy, and I hope that we will now find answers to this in particular. In short, this content of the additional budget. I share the same concern that has been expressed in many speeches here: these restaurants, which, by way of exception, were closed down by state action to protect human health. Parliament's will has been communicated very clearly in the report of the Economic Committee and in the opinion of the Constitutional Committee, and these documents state that restaurants should be compensated for these losses. That is why I believe that a lot of people are also at the restaurant site, which is why there is no element here that would be earmarked to compensate the restaurants for these losses. To that end, the Parliamentary Group of the Coalition Party also proposes a change, i.e. additional funding, specifically for restaurants. Secondly, this proposal for the refund of VAT, which is one of the key proposals of the Convention to help businesses overcome this crisis. In other words, we have proposed that VAT should be returned to companies at the beginning of the year, which would also be fair and proportionate to the size and turnover of the company. It has also been mentioned here in the Minister's speeches and in other words that it is estimated that it would take a couple of months for the tax authorities to do so. First of all, if this had been done immediately, it would soon have been two months and we would therefore soon have the systems ready. In addition to that, I would also challenge the fact that, under exceptional circumstances, everything is now working on quite extraordinary, perhaps exceptional, work schedules and so on, could it possibly have been possible to consider additional resources for a small part of the tax authority so that the systems could have been achieved on a faster schedule. In addition, if this is not possible, we have also put forward proposals for arrangements with banks to introduce this type of VAT recovery instrument more quickly in cooperation with banks. I would like a direct answer to the question: why has this option not been on the table, and has this already lost an expensive amount of time to create those systems? There is feedback from the business field that the current business support models, to which the Parliament has granted funding and which we have also supported in many ways, are in themselves good and necessary — there are support instruments through Business Finland, through elys, through municipalities, through the provision of unemployment security for sole entrepreneurs and so on — but the problem is the development requirement, and it is a problem for many companies that run perfectly well under normal conditions. [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u34	On the other hand, my wish is for these time recommendations to be adhered to. - Now, Minister Kulmuni, please.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u35	Mr President! Thank you to the representatives for their generations and for their diverse questions. I admit quite frankly that I am not in a position to respond to all of them, because they also extend to the administrative sectors of the ministers, but I shall try to wade through some of them which, of course, are in the preparation and work of the Ministry of Finance. Mr Kiuru asked what he would say to entrepreneurs who wondered if it would be worth stopping now if there was no view of how to get out of this. Yes, I say it is not worth stopping, but it is definitely worth encouraging every entrepreneur who contacts you to get through this time. We are trying to build such good ways that we can get the money quickly for entrepreneurs, and if we are healthy, we will certainly be able to organise mechanisms beyond this crisis that do not need an attempt to stop this crisis, so I hope that every representative will also be able to help in that work and direct entrepreneurs to the right door. And, of course, on the part of the administration, we are trying to ensure that these processes are also fast-track – now, with the prompt involvement of Parliament, for example, those direct subsidies have been mobilised. As I said earlier, I very much appreciate the various ideas and ideas that have come from the representatives. Today, in the consultation of the Committee on Finance, I have once again received an idea from the representatives, and that is something that I will certainly clarify and move forward, and that has also come about in this Chamber. No one has the wisdom stone of how best to deal with this situation and, above all, how long it will last. And that is what makes this situation so miserable that the measures that are needed today are different if this takes three months, and quite different if it takes longer. That is why all this is linked, of course, to the restrictions and compliance with them and to the fact that this virus will eventually be eradicated. But now that you are following the news from China, where there is apparently another kind of after-wave, there is not yet a complete knowledge of how this will end, so we need to make decisions at this moment, based on the best available information, and to be able to increase the testing capacity to which the whole Parliament has given a clear signal. We must also, of course, be able to trace more closely, and people must follow the quarantine decisions and recommendations that have been made. And I'm sure that in all of that, we'll be able to move forward. Sometimes, of course, it seems painfully slow, but that is why all these measures must be promoted. Representative Antikainen asked about the Eurosystem. Of course, for Finland, the stability of the Eurosystem is absolutely central. And we are also active developers of the Emu system. But in this crisis where we are, the fact that each country is responsible for its own economic policy also has a pretty good statute. And what has been raised here by the representatives is, for example, that the state of public finances in Finland was not as good as that in some countries. Although a lot of work was done in the last parliamentary term to balance the economy, we had not been able to reach the situation of having a very strong public finances in the last decade. It has been in good shape, but it could have been in better shape, so the next government too, the next Parliament, will have a very large amount of work to balance the public finances, which will start this year, and as part of the May recovery budget, there must be an idea of how to close the sustainability gap — about measures to balance the economy. And in the autumn budget debate, we need to look at the balance between revenue and expenditure, so that we can catch up with the long-term sustainability gap, but also reduce the burden on the next generation of people that we are now seriously deleveraging in this exceptional situation. The representative of the park also made an excellent speech on the importance of self-sufficiency in payment systems. I think that the terrible consequences of this crisis will certainly be that, in many respects, issues of self-sufficiency will rise much more to the agenda. Yes, the functioning of payment systems is one of them, food security, and there has been talk of domestic production of protective equipment, all of which will undoubtedly be followed by a very large national debate after the corona virus. Also during the Finnish EU Presidency, the Ministry of Finance highlighted this function of payment systems also in terms of self-sufficiency, so it is a very important theme. And Finland's state guarantees are one of the largest in the European Union, 60 billion, so Finland, if anyone, should constantly look at how it relates to other countries. Of course, we have an industry such as that which has worked on these subsidies, such as the shipbuilding industry.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u36	Mr President! The amending budget contains the expected increases, which are urgently required by the corona crisis. Raising business subsidies is a good example of the measures we now need. I still think it is important for ministries to monitor the targeting of business subsidies so that entrepreneurs do not get caught up in the situation of drop-outs. There are already many such companies. Not all companies can start to run various development projects, but they temporarily need direct support for fixed expenditure that does not need to be repaid. The support provided should genuinely benefit businesses. Mr Kulmuni said earlier that municipalities are one of the most important partners, but this amending budget does not improve the situation for the time being, at least for the time being. The government will correct municipal tax revenue losses now but cut them out of state aids the following year. This was communicated by the Ministry as if it were a great hand-out for the municipalities, but that is not what it is, but in practice it is only temporary aid. In future amending budgets, the municipalities have been promised more support in various forms, and I would like to see it actually offset the costs and tax losses caused by the corona crisis for the municipalities. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the case, as municipalities have estimated that they also cover only about half of the cost of the interest rate. We all know how bad the economic situation in municipalities can become and what kind of measures it can lead to at its worst, so understandably state support plays an important role in municipalities around Finland. Mr President! The Government has still not agreed to abandon the measures and guidelines of the Government Programme. In ministries, some will normally continue to take forward the Government Programme when some are struggling with issues related to corona. Would it not be sensible now to exempt municipalities from the additional obligations envisaged and to suspend their preparation in the ministries? This is also the wish of the municipalities, which must be listened to if the municipalities are genuinely to be regarded as important partners.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u37	Mr President! The draft amending budget compensates for the damage caused by the epidemic and the fight against it. The epidemic itself is not the fault of the government, although many governments' actions deserve severe criticism. The unwillingness to stop flights from epidemic areas, to isolate passengers and to close external borders made the situation unnecessarily worse. Similarly, self-deception with regard to emergency stocks and farce-induced respiratory protection purchases should be mentioned. The most disturbing and worrying aspect of the follow-up has been the tendency of the government to avoid its own responsibility and blame anyone else: municipalities, civil servants or companies. But these are the details. The big fall comes from the decline in economic activity. When companies fall and people are left without work, the tax revenue of the state will decrease but at the same time public expenditure will increase. In the past, such an equation would have had to be resolved by prioritising matters and cutting back on running and secondary expenditure. Unfortunately, in these times of global debt, the bottom of the trunk is not coming up, but by borrowing more money. This is a transfer of problems to future generations — frankly, this is stealing from future generations. Debt money is not free of charge. The increasing burden of debt means growing debt management costs. They mean more stringent taxation of productive work, which means more unemployment and other problems in the future. Without a pandemic, the government programme rests too heavily on debt and the sale of government property. This crisis has highlighted the dangers of selling strategic ownership. It is not just about government dividends or even just Finnish jobs. It is also a question of whether Finland has production and expertise that is vital for security of supply. It is grotesque to talk about security of supply if Finland is also dependent on global production and transport chains and even on foreign labour. This criticism is directed at all the governments of the past decades, but this government has the opportunity and the duty to change this direction now that its dangers have become apparent. Mr President! In this crisis, debt-taking cannot be avoided. However, the government must not use the corona as an excuse for recklessness and irresponsibility and for promoting its own ideological projects. The government should be criticised for not being able to set priorities or for being wrong in its priorities. This is not the time for expensive and unnecessary extension of compulsory education. This is not the time to make the most ambitious national climate policy in the world. In fact, the most impressive climate policy is to ensure that production is returned to the country of origin and that Chinese coal-fired plants remain closed, ships in ports and aircraft in the country. Now is not the time to break new holes in the already loose immigration legislation. Now is not the time to increase European solidarity and shovel money to save the countries of southern Europe. Instead, it is now time to shift development aid expenditure to domestic needs, to put an end to internal transfers of asylum seekers and to abolish the national quota refugee system. These alone will not solve the problems of public finances, but they will send a message to the Finnish worker and entrepreneur that the government understands its role as guardian of the Finnish people and is able to make priorities accordingly. It is a matter of considerable choices. Development aid expenditure alone is about the same as the estimated tax losses of municipalities. It is time to address the problems raised by globalisation, which have been highlighted by the corona crisis and which need to be learned. We have no national boundaries to protect Finns from the entry of cheap labour and social security customers. We do not have a customs policy that protects Finnish work and attempts at cheap Chinese imports. We have a currency that binds us to pay off other countries' debts. These provisions will make it more difficult to emerge from this crisis and will lay the foundations for the next crisis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u38	Mr President! This draft amending budget shows that the Government is committed to securing the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond this crisis with minimal damage. In addition to the decisions now taken, the government is preparing measures to support the rapid recovery of the economy with the third amending budget in May. In addition to acute crisis management, we need to build a plan to restore Finland to a path of sustainable growth, high employment and sustainable public finances after the crisis. An important message is that the government is committed to sharing the burden of the crisis in a socially and economically just and ecologically sustainable way and fairly between generations. President! The Government will fully reimburse the costs of the corona crisis for health care and public authorities. In this amending budget, an additional EUR 600 million will be allocated to the purchase of protective equipment, equipment and medicines. In particular, the protection of social workers is one of the most important aspects of preventing the spread of the epidemic. In addition to the adequacy of the protective equipment, I have been concerned about the constantly changing instructions. Some of the instructions have even been against the screen. This has caused confusion, especially in home care. As a result of the corona crisis, municipalities face significant economic difficulties. In order to facilitate this situation, municipalities' tax losses this year will be compensated for by EUR 547 million as a first step. In addition, the Government will prepare a municipal support package of at least EUR 1 billion for the May Draft Amending Budget. Municipalities and their economic situation are different, and therefore the crisis affects municipalities in different ways, and that is why the package of support to municipalities consists of different measures and the support will be phased in. Hopefully, in the light of this information, the municipalities are now considering carefully whether to lay off the workers. Although the nature of the work has changed, there is still a need for factors. For example, there is now a growing need for school counselors, as more pupils need the support of learning in distance education. I am particularly concerned about the messages I have received in recent days from parents of special children, where parents say that in some municipalities and schools special children have been left empty without adequate support. The better the students are cared for now, the easier it will be for them to return to the normal learning path after the epidemic has ended. Despite the good support measures, the existing restrictions have a negative impact on the learning outcomes, well-being and equality of children and young people, and it is therefore gratifying to hear that the government is implementing a comprehensive programme of measures to mitigate the effects of the action plan and will be included in the draft amending budget to be submitted in May. The support package for children and young people prepares to support municipalities in order to increase resources to support education and learning and respond to growing support needs after this distance learning period. Discontinuation of close - to - school education and many hobbies have revolutionized many young people’s daily lives. It is therefore important that this amending budget also supports the youth sector. Support will be targeted at workshops, youth centres and youth organisations. Young people must not be left alone, and that is why the additional budget of EUR 1.5 million proposed for youth workshops and outreach youth work is really needed. Important information is also that the government will continue to work on extending compulsory education. The reform is indeed a key education effort for the future, and it will help us raise the level of competence in Finland and create the conditions for sustainable growth in employment. This investment in the future is particularly needed now. Municipalities should also bear in mind the need for skilled people to help older people and vulnerable people. This assistance can also take place through the network. For example, family carers now need special support. Many people are uncertain about the follow-up, and many municipalities have taken a break from taking days off, often even for nothing, and this has caused fatigue and fatigue in family carers. Another group that has been overlooked is people who have been in rehabilitative work and whose activities have stopped like a wall. If they are on their own for weeks, the consequences can be disastrous. Communication and directing meaningful activities, for example through remote connections, is essential. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has also stated that exceptional circumstances do not justify the abolition of services or the termination of existing customers. Now the municipalities should consider how things are organised in a new way. Mr President! There will also be funding of around EUR 1 billion for additional business support. Of course, companies of all sizes need support, but I am pleased that the government is now taking into account the difficult situation of self-employed people. An increase of EUR 150 million in the grant of state aid to municipalities to support self-employed persons is proposed compared with previous decisions. Unfortunately, this aid is not enough for all those who need it. I hope that the next amending budget will also include a package of support for the social and health services which provide a great deal of services but are not covered by the enterprise subsidies now decided upon. These organisations often work with vulnerable citizens in particular. Mr President! It is important that the government is now also considering the way out of the crisis and the post-crisis management of the various sectors of society. In designing after-care measures, it is important to take into account the objectives of the Government Programme regarding the long-term construction of a socially, economically and ecologically sustainable society. The Committee on the Future has also stressed that, while we must do everything in our power to slow down and combat the current corona pandemic, we must also be able to see the post-coronapandemic period, with its risks and opportunities. Despite its stability, the pandemic also opens up a wealth of new positive opportunities, which we can reduce the negative consequences by taking up. Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Kiuru and also Mr Räsä for raising the role of the Audit Committee from a future perspective. I agree with them that, in order to learn from this crisis, the Audit Committee would be a good place to work together on the successes and failures of dealing with the crisis, particularly from the point of view of learning, as Mr Kiuru has emphasised here. This would allow us to better prepare for possible future crises.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u39	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u40	Mr President! All in all, I think it is important to say here today, and many other days it has been said that the most important thing at the moment is to safeguard people's health, people's well-being. That is why this approach, which has been taken by both the Government and Parliament in Finland, is the only way we will definitely approach these issues and approach them before health, is the only right, only option. In the early days of the crisis, he also drew attention to the fact that, when these famous words were said by President Niinistö that there was perhaps more physical distance but closeness, in this context he also answered the question of the economy and said something about it, that perhaps this is not such an answer angle for him, but in this situation health is more important than anything else — the economy is only secondary — and the healthy people will also take care of its economy. I think these are important words, and it is important that we come to the full here and now with people's health and safety, well-being ahead of all. President! It is true that, when this point of view is, quite rightly, chosen, we are in a position to have in our hands today, in this debate, a truly historic major amending budget with a rapid introduction of EUR 4 billion in investment here. This is already the second, which means that one of us has already accepted, where there were important players on quite a large scale, including in support of businesses. This is where the same line gets a continuation. In my opinion, this has been done quickly. In particular, we have also heard that the next amending budget is expected — that is, it will come in May — so there is a certain degree of certainty that these necessary measures will be taken. Since we are now putting everything in place for people's health, for livelihoods, for business conditions, for employment, for the future, everything is being done, it is good that the capacity to do so is also being made clear here. That is why I am sure it is all right that this debate is taking place and also from the point of view of which the government has announced that, if and when there are appropriate questions here — not all of them yet — there are ideas, there will be questions on a large scale, and they will be taken into account, for reflection. Since three amending budgets are made quickly in this case too, then perhaps the following may be the case and then take the measure or other that is deemed necessary at that time. That's good. Of course, we already know that in the fourth place, too, the much-desired measures to help the municipalities – there is a billion-dollar package known there – and at least I would be happy to see what is planned there on the investment side, because there is certainly also a wide range of measures in support of employment that can be achieved in this part of May. President! I personally believe it is important that people's livelihoods are also specifically taken into account here. This support for families whose parents have to stay home to care for their children is a very important and welcome new support, thank you. Similarly, I think it is very important that entrepreneurs, for example, now have access to this unemployment benefit — that is a good, important policy. I also appreciate it very much, and I think it is important that our entrepreneurs, their conditions are now being taken care of, try to prevent the waves of bankruptcy with all their efforts, and thereby increase resources for the Ely Centres, municipalities and then Business Finland in order to deal with these issues. I think they are important lines of action. Of course, I am very pleased with what I have said a lot about here along the way, that is, in the field of physical activity, culture, young people's opportunities for action, there are the additional resources needed here. For example, I know that history, as the Minister for Culture has said here, that, in terms of culture, for example, these losses have now been specifically considered in cooperation with organisations and operators, the loss that comes there, and this sum has thus been logged in. This support is intended for these professionals, freelancers, professionals, artists in general, on a free field as well as for art institutions and then for museums, theatres and orchestras receiving state aid. Although I was quite pleased to hear in my room, where I also listened to this debate, the Minister for Culture said that the amounts could be seen later, if there is any further need, but this is the minimum that the Ministry of Education and the field, as seen together by the operators in the field, must be achieved in order to compensate for the losses — that is the sum. It is a good thing that we were not going to pinch this Ministry of Education's proposal at a later stage of preparation, but that it was then adopted in that form. It's important. It is also very important, Mr President, that the loss of the bet should be compensated for in this field by the operators in the sector, these organisations. That is important and, of course, what we are going to do in the future is also on the whole. Since time is running, I will simply say to this end that I agree with the views expressed here on the situation of protective equipment, about the need for these things to be put right. I don't think it's going to get caught for money, and it's not going to stay and it's not going to get caught. An example of this is that now this 600 million comes into protective equipment. I very much hope that we will develop new opportunities both for domestic operators and for all of us in this area, because we all know that there have been very unpleasant complications along the way, very unpleasant, but certainly it is not the will of this House that such important issues are not properly dealt with. President! End: Warm thanks to all the professional groups who are now keeping our society up, for example, in the care sector or, for example, in the cleaning sector, on various sides. Many good professionals in their own work here now maintain well-being for us, and for that warm thanks.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u41	Mr President! The Government has brought forward the second amending budget of the year, the theme of which is to respond to the corona epidemic and its economic impact. There is a great deal of action in this proposal that is urgently needed. This will secure people's livelihoods by EUR 1.5 billion, including entrepreneurs with an extension of unemployment benefit and parents at home in the form of new support. The total amount of enterprise support here is nearly one billion, and culture, physical activity and youth work are also supported. The already tight local government finances are supported by compensation for tax delays, and additional subsidies are also being prepared. In these further preparations, I would pay particular attention, for example, to the situation of public transport in the hands of municipalities and to ensuring that, in such an exceptional situation, we, in a way, meet the challenge they face: to run public transport loosely, which is more difficult economically. And, of course, there must be a mechanism to ensure that we have good and excellent public transport connections in the future. In the end, however, the key question for the economy and livelihood is how long and in what form this exceptional period lasts. This can be influenced by how effective we are in getting control of the disease. And in the light of the statistics, the situation now looks promising: The number of patients in hospital and intensive care seems to have stabilised in the last week. The delay in transmission to symptoms and hospitalisation should be marked. These figures reflect the progress of the epidemic more comprehensively than the number of infections based on tests affected by the number and targeting of tests. These figures refer to the success of the restrictions. It does not mean, however, that we can afford to relax restrictions or slip away from the instructions, and it is essential, as has been pointed out here, that protective equipment is sufficient, especially in health care. If the exponential progression of the epidemic has actually been stopped, it will, at best, enable the epidemic to be suppressed and controlled by testing, tracing of infections and exposures and targeted isolation, allowing at least part of the overall mass restrictions to be lifted. I believe that mobile tracking technology is needed to support this, and this is already progressing — it is an excellent thing. It is, of course, a prerequisite for ensuring strict protection of privacy right down to the heart of technical implementation. Thank you, Minister Haraka, for the expert input on this issue. Of course, the disease does not disappear from the world before the vaccine, and after the first wave of epidemics, we need to prepare for a number of subsequent vessels. Of course, it is not enough to assess the situation in Finland and answer it. Koronapandem cripples countries and economies around the world, and Finland is not an island. Developments in the United States, Russia, and many developing countries, for example, raise concerns that much destruction is still ahead and difficult times can last for a very long time. Therefore, while we are managing our own land, it is important that Finland emphasises this global nature of the corona crisis and international cooperation and contributes to strengthening the EU as an actor in this situation. This kind of shock has knocked our economy to its knees in many respects, and like the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Lintiläk has already said, quite simply, the rapid mobilisation of recovery funds in current structures is partly challenging. The background may be that we have traditionally focused on measuring and improving the economy and public administration from the point of view of its efficiency. Perhaps efficiency has been over-emphasised at the expense of resistance. Maximising calculated productivity and achieving profitability in the short term can cause the system to be sensitive to disturbances and may have a much more serious impact on the scale of those that even repeat. Of course, efficiency in itself is not always a bad thing. Resources saved or acquired with efficiency can be allocated to preparedness for disturbances. This principle is used, for example, by the Security of Supply Agency with funds from the Security of Supply Fund. However, the challenge of such contingency arrangements is that they are designed to respond at some level to a pre-estimated or defined crisis, and, as we have seen now, it is challenging to scale preparedness. The resilience, adaptability, resulting from apparent inefficiency, overcapacity and diversity may be more universal in nature, and we should consider how to better involve these aspects in decision-making. Mr President! This amending budget is justified and well prepared and necessary. It is, of course, largely reversible and responsive in nature, and that is what the situation calls for. At the same time, it must be remembered that it is essential that the economy be revived in ways that mitigate climate change and protect biodiversity. Without such ecological reconstruction, there is most likely to be a series of worse crises and chronic disruptions. Thank you to the government for keeping this issue on the table and for driving a green recovery in the EU as well. I hope this situation will remind you that it is worth taking the concerns of researchers seriously, acting in advance and preventing crises in advance.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u42	Mr President! A great many speakers have referred to the fact that, for example, at the beginning of the year you would not have believed that this kind of situation in a few months or less will be at hand. And yes, this has tried the world economy and the Finnish economy and will be very hard on the way forward. And I can say that, even at this stage, when we have a second amending budget of nearly EUR 4 billion in funding, and the previous one was about EUR 1 billion, there has been a considerable amount of state money mobilised to secure the livelihood of businesses and self-employed people and, above all, workers and all Finns. In this situation, the State is the only major buffer that can function. This has been seen, among other things, in the fact that municipalities are also very far from the central government sector, and tax revenues when they have been cut off, that is all they can do but turn to the state. But I wouldn't worry much about the situation in the municipalities anyway. Both of them have approved the budgets and have been allocated the funds — although the tax revenue there is being cut, and the state is now trying to replace them — but when we get closer to the end of the year, then the situation is really starting to get rough. The fact that we are now running out of municipal money has been raised very strongly here, and I do not believe it now. It could be tight. Above all, hospital districts and health professionals face very great challenges. I am not going to list the figures in this budget, they have been listed here many times already, just to say that there are very significant sums involved, and that also means that the state is going into debt. Now that these speeches have already been made here, with the kind of speeches that the government should have increased funding, and then with the corresponding concern about debt, I would agree at this stage with Mrs Viitanen, where she pointed out that it is now the health of the citizens that is most important, that it is being taken care of and that it is also being supported by the companies and communities that are facing the challenges economically, and by the people who are also making a living. We have to prepare for the situation when we get through this, so that we also have plenty to invest in the future. And I would see the same thing that has been raised here in some speeches that we now have to be prepared to see that the business world is getting fresh and moving and that our debt of repair, for example, in connection with the networks on the fairway, is now being put on the move. We already have funding for the Ely Centres in the budget, and it may well be that there will be more in the May budget, at least that is what I hope. These measures show that we are going to get through this. We currently have companies in Finland where this corona virus does not penetrate in that way. For example: As far as the forest industry is concerned, it seems that there is no such recession to see, as for example on the public side, or, above all, on the service side or such a company that is going to have to deal well with the citizens, here seems to be the biggest sufferer. So let's live in hope and move on. This level of self-sufficiency has also been raised and, above all, security of supply, and this is certainly one of the most important issues that must now be tackled after this crisis. Finland has been considered very good in terms of security of supply, but this has now also shown us that we too have vulnerable points, and we must also address them in the future. I hope that companies, especially those who have withdrawn from Finland, will come back here and, for example, start doing these protective equipment and this type of thing that is needed here at the moment. Thank you, first and foremost, to the government and the minister, who has already left here, that this amending budget has been brought here quickly and is moving forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u43	Mr President! First of all, what many economic experts have said, and lastly, the World Monetary Fund: there is a great risk that the world economy will end up in the greatest recession since the 1930s. It is very important that we say out loud here in Parliament that: Finland will certainly survive, and it is important that we invest now in health, in healthy businesses, in getting ahead of this. But it is equally important, and it is particularly important for the parliamentary group in the Coalition Party that we look further there. We want assurance from the government that there will certainly be readiness, when an amending budget is made in May, and especially in the budget debate, to tackle the necessary structural reforms, to tackle the sustainability gap. There's no insurance yet. If we look at the budgetary plan, there has even been an increase in the budget for such projects, of which a large proportion, the majority, experts have said that they are not of this time, they are even harmful. One example is the extension of compulsory education. It is a reform of which the majority of experts have said that it makes sense to withdraw, it does not remove motivational problems from young people, it does not guarantee a secondary degree. There are more problems than solutions. The chairman of the Committee on Education has well stated that it would be an ugly disservice for young people. With regard to this reform, for example, I hope that you in this Chamber will say that you have the readiness to withdraw these and see what is important in this time. In this time it is important to put money in the quality of education, to provide support for young people who are now at risk of being excluded from this corona epidemic, and to ensure that no young people are excluded, and to forget this type of ideological reform, which cannot afford a good time, let alone here and now. But, President-in-Office, the amending budget that is now under discussion is well founded and it is very important that we now put the money into measures to ensure that this corona epidemic is brought to a minimum, both humanly and economically. We started hearing this proposal in the Committee on Budgets, and today we have already said by the parliamentary group that we are going to make five supplementary budget initiatives and we are going to protest against this proposal. I raise two things here, and one relates to companies and just restaurants and cafes. After all, they were closed by decree, and then the whole of Parliament unanimously stated that support must be given to restaurants and cafes. But now this direct support for these actors is lacking in this amending budget, and we will be presenting in our amending budget initiative, we have already proposed that EUR 200 million should be allocated to this. The second amending budget initiative concerns testing. Testing is something without which we will not control this epidemic. We will not get out of this difficult situation if the testing is not extended. WHO has spoken for testing. The WHO leader has said that it is impossible to fight fire if you do not see it, and that is why testing needs to be extended. Minister My corner has spoken well about extending the testing, but I am disappointed that there is no more money in this amending budget for testing. And I do consider Mr Kiuru to be rather small in relation to the need for this test. Health care staff are unable to get to the test, although at the moment they should be able to get to the very low threshold. Even asymptomatic health care personnel should be tested if they are dealing with risk groups. All in all, what has been said about the tests is not reflected in the increase in the number of tests at the moment, and I am very concerned about that. Tomorrow we will have a special hearing in the Committee on Finance, in which we want answers from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health on these matters. I find it particularly worrying that the capacity we have to expand the testing is not being put in place. The Social Insurance Institution, Kela, has often suggested and prepared that the sv compensation, i.e. Kela, should be put to private health care testing, but this has not yet been done. It has been suggested that the tests carried out in occupational health care could also be replaced. This has not been done. I now appeal to the government parties to move forward. The second thing that is necessary is that we have so-called corona taxis. The Social Insurance Institution has repeatedly and for a long time appealed to the government of the country to amend the regulation and replace taxis equipped with special equipment with special measures to ensure that the corona virus is not transmitted due to transport. This will protect taxi drivers, but also the Finnish population. This has not progressed, either. There are ready proposals for this, and I hope that the members of the Government Party will appeal to the relevant ministers at the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, and indeed we will be able to move forward on this. Then, President-in-Office, it is justified that additional appropriations should be made available for the purchase of protective equipment. That is absolutely necessary. I would like to express my regret that Parliament's information, particularly on protective equipment, has been inadequate. Now we see how justified it was that the parliamentary group of the Coalition Party has raised these concerns in the matter of protective equipment. It is absolutely necessary now that all the expertise we have in Finland should be placed in our ability to produce domestic production, but also that we acquire the protective equipment. There is no way we can overcome the corona virus if our social and health care staff are not provided with adequate protective equipment. And they are also needed in many other areas, social affairs and police. I really hope that tomorrow, when we in the Committee on Budgets hear the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, we will have a clear explanation of how this happened. President! I would like to say that the same mistake has been made at Helsinki Airport in this case of protective equipment. Several experts, many Members of Parliament, have reported that the virus leak from the airport should be blocked. No one in the government heard this, and there was no one in charge who would have put it forward. And then when it was done, it was late. The same thing happened in this case of protective equipment. Countless organizations, Tehy, SuPer, the Nursing Association, including the Medical Association, appealed to the government, in many ways there was contact with the government, but no additional supply of protective equipment was made. Action has now been taken, that is a good thing, and I thank you for that, but I hope that we are not too late on this issue. Today we have been informed that this corona virus has now spread to the Kauunia war injury hospital, and I would like to conclude, although there are no ministers here, that the measures now being taken to test in health care are being taken.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, let us try to stick to this seven-minute recommendation. Congressman Hopsu will show you how.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u45	Mr President! We live in a time that hits almost everyone from the point of view of health, well-being or the economy, at the worst of all of them. The Government has taken the line that the knock on the economy is being tried very generously at this stage, both for individuals, businesses, municipalities and other actors. The amending budget is historic: 4.1 billion. The idea is that no viable company would fall, that jobs would still exist after the crisis and that layoffs would not turn into structural unemployment. In this proposal, companies will receive additional support of almost one billion, for example through municipalities, the form of support for self-employed individuals will be introduced. In the crisis phase, support should be available to individuals in the form of basic income and by closing gaps in social security: for example, necessary and expected new support for parents of children at home who are not eligible for paid and telework, and the unemployment security for entrepreneurs, which has already been praised in this Chamber. Mr President! The crisis has affected entrepreneurs, service workers and the cultural sector, but is increasingly reflected in society. Many feel that, although the forms of support are being developed, it is not always easy to find the right support. A great deal must now be invested in providing information on subsidies for both business and income and in the handicrafts of granting subsidies. The need is unprecedented from the point of view of the timetable and the number of applicants. An additional EUR 1.5 billion will be allocated in the budget to secure people's livelihoods. In the next amending budget, the increased costs of health care are promised to be compensated directly to the medical districts. EUR 600 million is now being allocated to the purchase of protective equipment, equipment and medicines. The need should also compensate for the increased social and health care costs of municipalities. These remained in the next amending budget because it is still difficult to obtain accurate information at the moment. In order to dismantle the restrictive measures required by the epidemic, there is also a growing pressure on the take-over of disease chains, which requires more testing, the use of digital monitoring and antibody testing. Testing must be better targeted and its obstacles, such as the lack of Kela compensation, removed. In this situation, there is a need not only for a good strategy but for all actors to be involved. At this point, municipal support was promised in the context of the next amending budget for a billion compensation, both for loss of income and for rising costs. These should be targeted as closely as possible at losses and expenses incurred. According to the Association of Finnish Local and Regional Authorities, the drop in municipal tax revenues alone may amount to EUR 1 billion this year. In addition to these and social costs, the financial pressure of municipalities will increase on revenue from payments that have not accumulated and on costs which are intended to facilitate the situation of the municipality's partners, i.e. the cancellation of farm rents, the abandonment of the recovery of grants granted and, inter alia, the loss of public transport ticket revenues, if these are not directly compensated by joint municipal authorities. The compensation for the deficit resulting from the deferral of tax payments and the reduction in the late payment rate now contained in the amending budget is indeed only part of the shock experienced by the local government economy, and the pressure for cuts is high in the municipalities. Nevertheless, it is precisely the municipalities that have a great responsibility to safeguard people's well-being during this crisis. We should not now postpone urgent care, leave student care in the lurch or save in the food aid of the underprivileged. We should not make decisions that would have long to offset the effects of nausea. The municipal part of the third amending budget is therefore already in a hurry. Mr President! The restrictions introduced to slow down the spread of the interest rate epidemic have a lot of negative effects on the learning outcomes, well-being and equality of children and young people. The risk of exclusion increases when the day-to-day life is almost entirely on the hands of families who can do very much differently. The Government has promised to implement a comprehensive programme of measures to mitigate these impacts. The appropriations for the operational programme shall be included in the third draft amending budget for 2020. This amending budget also supports youth work by proposing 2.5 million for youth organisations and youth centres, and 1.5 million for youth workshops and outreach youth work. Many artists and culturalists have lost their livelihood as a result of the corona crisis. A total of 19 million will be allocated to cultural and artistic artists, over 21 million will be presented to national art institutions and state-owned theatres, orchestras and museums. The work of basic art education will be facilitated by 3 million. These are all very important additions to maintain the vitality of the industry as a whole and also because art is a good way to deal with the crisis and change, to support people's mental well-being. Sport and sport receive about 20 million extra with the interest rate in order to ensure the smooth running of sports and social activities and sports training centres. Mr President! At the same time as we take care of the situation in our own country, we need to look more broadly at how we support the fight against the interest rate worldwide. People in fragile circumstances need our support. I hope that Finland will be able to respond to the growing need for humanitarian aid. Our future amending budgets have a lot to do with the strategy we are going to use to dismantle the restrictive measures. What is essential is how soon and how, for example, testing and digital monitoring can recapture the transmission chains throughout the country. At the same time, when the crisis period is facilitated and economic recovery begins, people's employment and Finland's transition to a carbon-neutral welfare state must be supported. The government assured us that it would stick to these important objectives.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u46	Mr President! According to the amending budget, the economy will fall by 5.5 per cent in Finland this year, if account is taken of measures limiting the economy over a period of approximately three months. However, according to today's estimate made by the IMF, the recession seems to be becoming the worst since the 1930s. For an open economy such as Finland, this is bad news, because we have played a very important role in our exports. Exports of goods and services relative to GDP in 2018 and 2019 amounted to almost 40 per cent, of which EU countries accounted for up to 60 per cent, so we can assume that if in these countries, to which we most export, such as Germany, Sweden and so on, the economy is shrinking and has no opportunity to trade to the same extent as in the past, then that 5.5 per cent is quite optimistic. This is where Minister Kulmuni pointed out that, in fact, Finland’s chances of obtaining a loan on the market are quite good because of what the previous government has done. So there were a lot of measures and achievements to achieve a balanced economy. If you look at the figures for 2019, our debt ratio was about 45 per cent, but if you go according to this draft amending budget, this year the ratio of central government debt to GDP will rise to 52 per cent. Well, the loan is now also being given in support of the municipalities, which is good and what many of us parliamentarians, who are municipal decision-makers, have hoped for. But one thing that has come from many municipalities as a wish is that there should be no increase in the obligations of the municipalities, because they are already having difficulty coping with the current obligations, one example of the extension of compulsory education to 18 years of age mentioned here on several occasions, which takes up a great deal of resources. And now the wish would be for you representatives of the government parties who are in this Chamber to move forward with the idea that, at least at this stage, you would not bring this to Parliament but would at least postpone it. There is absolutely no scope for these in municipalities with a large number of children and young people. Then, the President, whom I would like to raise here a few weeks ago, is the closure of the restaurant sector until the end of May. I myself was dealing with this matter in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I remember very well when we made it a condition for Parliament and also for the government to compensate the sector for the losses it will suffer. And one way — the restaurant industry itself has wanted it — must be compensated, in accordance with the sales margin, in particular the February sales margin, because it was still a month that was a good month before the interest rate came to Finland. The second thing we listed in the report by the Committee on Economic Affairs was that those restaurants that also sell out food would have easier access to the right to sell out also in the case of alcohol. In other words, we were hoping for easier access to the authorisation process so that these could be granted in a flexible way. Then the assembly has also proposed that VAT should be refunded to these entrepreneurs who have paid for them at the beginning of the year. We have also clarified that this could be done in cooperation with the banks. Although, in terms of bureaucracy, it is difficult to implement this in the state's administrative machinery, fortunately, banks have learned from the recession of the 1990s that they can act as a buffer here and grant loans against these VAT repayments. I would very much like the representatives of the government parties to take this opportunity forward. Now, in a way, close to these restaurants, nightclubs, bars and so on are performing artists who depend on such public places, i.e. performing artists, creative industries and so on, who cannot practice it at the moment. There are different estimates that the loss in the arts and culture sector is currently EUR 100 million, but, unfortunately, this amending budget has only presented EUR 40 million. That is why we in the Assembly have taken a budget initiative which would double this amount, that is to say, EUR 80 million. In our view, this would be more in line with the need that performers and cultural operators need. Then, President, I would like to raise a matter relating to business. There has been a lot of talk here about mask farce, the purchase of protective equipment, tests, antibody tests and so on: what kind of difficulties, lack of leadership and various difficulties have been encountered here along the way to get enough of them here in Finland, even for health care staff. The companies here are completely forgotten. I have discussed this with a very large number of business representatives, and there has also been some wonders about why the government has not been able to get help from companies. And last night on Yle's channels The president of the Confederation of Finnish Industries spoke of setting up such an economic crisis.fi website, a network of business representatives and entrepreneurs, economic agents, ordinary citizens who are concerned about this situation. They want to make a difference. They want to make their own contribution. It seems incredible that we do not take advantage of the Finnish potential we have here. Now we have to keep in mind that we have to fight out of this corona crisis in the long term. Now we are only in the first wave, and later, as we know from China's experience, there will be another wave. So we must in some way also be prepared for that future. In that sense, I would have liked this amending budget to have been clearer too.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u47	Mr President, ärade talman! Den andra tillaggsbudgeten är historiskt stor, över 4 billion euro, och det rai bevisar att regeringen har haft tummen på pulsen och det finns många viktiga åtgärder. Jag kan töda ledamot Kauma auri i att vi måste jobba för att få fram ett vaccin så snabbt som möjligt, det är åtminstone min syn på det hela. Undantagsförhållandet på grund av coronaepidemi betyder stora omställningar för många i samhället, för bland you give barnfabillion — vi har ett bra exempel på det i vår famil. Många jobbar på distans hemifrån, men det finns också många som tvingas vara borta från arbetet utan lön. Men nu finns det också ett sätt att beakta detta. I tillaggsbudgeten introducerar regeringen alldeles ny form, stödform, som hjälper dessa fabillioner, och det ox tycker vi är valdigt bra.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u48	Mr President! We are in a situation where indebtedness is necessary so that the worst options brought about by the corona crisis do not materialise. However, even the largest amending budget in the history of Finland must not be a matter of pride, but an alarm clock for serious realism. When you take debt, you have to remember that you also have to pay it back. On the basis of this idea alone, I very much hope that the government will get its line straight and make its interest rate strategy clear to us all — including ourselves. People need, in fact they deserve, a clear plan on how to get out of this crisis and how to rebuild our society. By this whole, the taking of debt can be justified, not by the preservation of one's own ideals. One of the most important things about how to deal with the corona epidemic is to increase testing. The government's proposal for this is pure EUR 0. Today, the Coalition Party has tabled a draft amending budget which would add EUR 200 million to the increase in testing. This is building a clear way out of the crisis. This is a reduction in the total bill. Keeping Parliament at the heart of this crisis also requires respect for it. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs very clearly called for the closure of restaurants and cafes to be secured by an immediate package of its own support in this area. Mr Government, you will be permitted to copy the additional funding presented today by the Assembly as yours. The main thing is that entrepreneurs receive fair treatment and do what the democratically elected Parliament has demanded of you. Once again: this is a reduction in the total bill. Mr President! Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of physical activity and culture in people's well-being. Inactivity alone costs our society up to EUR 7 billion a year. In order to at least give ourselves the opportunity to rise from these difficult times, we need active exercise and the survival of the cultural field. Now the government has allocated a total of EUR 60 million to support them, and thank you for that. The Olympic Committee has calculated that by the summer, the losses of both species unions and clubs will be more than EUR 80 million. I am sure that we understand that government support is not enough. This money, if anything, is a reduction in the total bill for the future of Finland as a whole. Good government! There are now a few solutions to the acute crisis, and I really hope you will listen to them. At the same time, I would remind you that debt brings responsibility. Accept your responsibilities with humility and respect for future generations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u49	Mr President! As we have said on several occasions in this Chamber, the corona crisis is, above all, a health crisis, but more and more an economic crisis, and that is what we are dealing with today in this Chamber. Today, the IMF has predicted that the world economy will sink into the most serious recession this year since the 1930s. The Ministry of Finance has also estimated in its forecast that our economy will decline by 5.5 per cent this year. However, the underlying assumption was that they had three months of restriction. We do not yet know whether these forecasts will be true. The economic base has deteriorated rapidly as the crisis progresses. Almost 400,000 Finns already participate in the Yt negotiations. A lot of companies fight every day to get their bills paid. The seriousness of the situation from an economic point of view is also illustrated by the fact that this additional budget already absorbs more debt than was taken at the bottom of the financial crisis in 2010. The debt-taking process is already breaking down by more than EUR 12 billion, as in 2010 the government's debt-taking reached around EUR 11 billion, and we are only in the early stages of this crisis. If the crisis persists and thus the economic impact increases, the rate of borrowing will increase very significantly this year. This is also good for us to remember in this Chamber. Mrs Kausto has just said very well how this additional budget has been described in this Chamber. I find it appalling the way this additional budget has been marketed as the largest in history, as if it were a compliment or something we should be proud of. Of course, in the midst of this deep crisis, measures are needed to help businesses, to help unemployed people get help that can provide protective equipment. But the idea of what is being done now again means that a great deal of action will be needed in the future, so that now, with this crisis, the wounds to our economy can be corrected. Mr. Speaker! We should also remind ourselves that the Finnish economy is extremely vulnerable to such a severe crisis at the moment. Since the financial crisis, we have not been able to make enough reforms to raise our employment rates sufficiently high, we have not been able to raise a buffer on public finances that could now be used to deal with these worst issues again, but all of this means significant debt-taking, and that debt will come to future generations. Mr. Speaker! There are a lot of good things in this additional budget, as I have just said: the purchase of protective equipment, support for self-employed people and other business activities. But I would also like to raise one criticism to the government, which I find very glaring: in fact, the government has not followed the will of this Chamber. When the Parliament adopted a declaration in connection with the legislation on the closure of restaurants, the government was obliged to take immediate action to support the livelihood of restaurant entrepreneurs, if necessary, during the state of emergency and its dismantling. Furthermore, the Constitutional Committee considered it necessary that the law should provide both for reasonable compensation for the losses caused by the ban and for mitigating the effects on traders. This Parliament has unanimously adopted these changes, which have closed the restaurants, and also the statements made in that report, and these parliamentary statements have not been implemented. Mr Kulmuni, Minister of Finance, has already left, but he said, in the run-up to the public finance debate, that restaurants are equally entitled to these other support measures, as are other entrepreneurs. That is true, but the Minister's answer is not what Parliament has demanded of the government. It is crazy to advise a restaurant entrepreneur to apply for aid from the Ely Centre for business development, when the closure decision has resulted in the collapse of the entire company's turnover. In addition, the freedom of business of an entrepreneur has been restricted in a very exceptional way, and that is why the support package required by Parliament must be targeted at the sector. This must be prepared and brought to the attention of Parliament by the Government without delay. Mr. Speaker! There has also been talk here of a number of other measures relating to business support, including the refund of VAT, which we have put forward in support of companies. I will continue to say that it is good and important that the government has quickly brought action to support businesses, but we can disagree with them. I do not see this chosen way of channelling support mainly through ely centres, for example, to support smaller companies, as a very effective and efficient way. The Ely Centers are completely overloaded at the moment. I get constant feedback from entrepreneurs that how on earth they plan to develop their business in this situation, when their entire turnover has collapsed and they are in a very difficult situation. It would have been justified to use tax measures that are quickly and effectively received directly in support of companies, such as the VAT refund system. Mr. Speaker! Nor do I accept the criticisms expressed by colleagues in the government parties that it has been pointed out in the hearings that it will take so long to create this system. I worked for the VM for several years, and I know that the Tax Administration has reformed its systems very much, and I believe that in a reasonable period of time, the Tax Administration, which, however, has the best knowledge of the taxes paid by companies, account numbers and so on, would be able to implement such an effective system of aid to companies. Mr. Speaker! As I said, a lot of good, but still a lot to fix, and I hope that the government will take them up. And especially as far as restaurants are concerned, it does have a lazy eye for the government, and action must be taken immediately.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u50	Mr President! It is important that Parliament and the government have now consistently and responsibly taken matters forward in a situation where no Finnish employee, the company, is guilty. In particular, thanks to the government for the rapid preparation of the second amending budget, it aims to ensure that companies are able to function, to save jobs, people's livelihoods and the financing of municipalities and social and health services. It is also important that funding for public authorities has continued to be increased in the second budget in a row. Securing internal security and everyday life through government work is of the utmost importance in the event of exceptional circumstances. The company financing package for the government amending budget under discussion today plays a special role in this acute crisis. Further increase in Finnvera's funding mandates, increase of Business Finland's direct corporate financing and additional funding for Ely's business development projects and additional funding for sole entrepreneurs are important measures. The additional powers must also provide the resources for processing and granting funding applications. It is also extremely important that these funding tools should be examined and that the criteria can then be further modified and served in this particular crisis situation, as has been said in many speeches here. These will not sit directly on this situation. The second concern is, of course, whether these financial elements – and this has already been mentioned in many speeches – serve our largest employment sector, the service and restaurant sector, which has a lot of part-time work and low-paid people in addition to everything. Mr President! The Minister of Local Government has worked well with the municipal court, and despite the pressure, the package is being carefully prepared before it is mainly brought here in the third amending budget for discussion here in the Chamber. Support for municipalities is important now, and the compensation of tax delays and support for cultural, physical and youth actors is of the utmost importance for the Finnish welfare society – above all so that we can then return to everyday life very quickly after the crisis. It is also a matter of some concern, particularly with regard to the support of this sport, youth and culture, that it really will then be directed towards the basic social and organizational work in which it is largely built into the Finnish welfare society. The future third budget is important for municipalities, and it is well known that the division of corporation tax will be reviewed and the central government share of basic services will also be reviewed. Of course, the funding of the social and health care districts, which now accounts for 60% of the budget in many municipalities, is particularly important. The aid must be targeted directly at health care districts, joint municipal authorities, and the criteria must then also take into account the impact of extensive preparedness, care and the social structure, age structure and disease in the region. There is also a strong hope that the forthcoming amending budget for May will be followed by a package on employment and investment, in spite of everything, on the basis of the Government Programme. It is also important to be able to look at and build the future. It is also important that the local government economy, as the Minister of Local Government has already pointed out, is then assessed in the spending limits debate in August, and according to the carrying capacity of the municipalities and the duration of the crisis, it is then possible to create a longer-term picture of local government finances. The statement by the Minister of Local Government that the financing of the aid is geared towards the interest rate effect, both in the mess and in the local economy, must then be a little difficult to assess. The assessment is not easy, because the impact will also come with a very long delay in Finnish welfare society and public finances, and this will certainly be the focus of consideration in the future budget and especially in longer-term economic planning.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u51	Mr President! Who would have believed last autumn when Minister of Finance Mika Lintilä said that we cannot afford to go with the debt money to revive — he said in an interview with Yle — that we really are in this situation? The interest crisis has hit the face of all of us, and the most important thing is to get out of this crisis with as little human damage as possible, as well as financial loss. The draft amending budget will increase the government's net borrowing requirement by EUR 9.4 billion. Now, if ever it is very important to see where the debt money is put. All secondary projects and items of expenditure, both external and internal, must be frozen at once. The focus should now be on what is most important, on how Finland can cope with this terrible economic and health disaster with minimal damage, and that is not done by anyone but us Finns themselves. Mr President! The issue of debt has been addressed in various words and I agree that under no circumstances can we boast of such an amount of debt. The next election success must also not be bought with astronomical borrowing. You have to keep your senses in hand. Mr President! I would like to thank the Minister for Science and Culture, Hanna Kosonen, who answered my written question about the situation of abiturents during the writings. After all, the matriculation exams were carried out in a busy order. In this written question, I stated that if not everyone does so well in those articles and there may be repetitions, could the autumn renewals be free of charge for the writers, and the minister promised that the government would consider it. And when there is reason to thank you, it is a great thing that this amending budget also takes account of the fact that the new authors of the coming autumn will be able to do these renewals free of charge, that is a great thing. Mr President! It is clear that the need for resources for dealing with unemployment security and other social benefits will increase exponentially in the near future. This second amending budget by the government does provide additional appropriations for the treatment of benefits, but will the additional resources provided be sufficient if the rigidity of the system is not reduced for a limited period? On 24 March I tabled a written question on the resources of the TE Offices and how they will cope with these pressures in the future, and of course it was promised that there will be additional funding, but it may not be enough. The government should take urgent measures and, for example, provide for a temporary exemption law which would allow for the absence of a separate labour policy opinion for each worker made redundant or laid-off due to the interest rate crisis, but instead for each individual undertaking. In this way, those who lose their jobs would be able to cope quickly with the granted unemployment benefit and the application congestion would not be cumulated with the processing of applications for income support and housing allowance. That's less red tape. Mr President! I would like to raise a few concerns. Under tremendous pressure, nurses and nurses are doing extremely demanding, accurate, and meaningful work. There is no point in saying that they do not need more so-called special work, in plain language, to compensate for dangerous work. This has been included in some collective agreements, for example, as a separate section. At the moment, carers do not have a collective agreement in force, but it is very important that a society that humanely views matters should take the same view of the work of carers and consider the way in which municipalities, joint municipal authorities and cities can be supported in order to possibly increase that pay to these carers. They need special support. With protective equipment, we have particularly serious problems in Finland. Contacts are received every day, last night from a purchasing company, that they have not received any protective equipment. Minister Pekonen's time made his point, saying that the actors should have a range of equipment within three to six months. However, the interest-rate crisis has come as a surprise to everyone, and now is not the time to blame those actors who do not have these protective equipment, but the time for after-washing is later. Now these equipment, which is bought in Finland, must be put on foot all over Finland, both for municipal operators and for private operators. One single operator, no one needs to be ignored, and I have left a written question on this today to ask whether this will be the case. Mr President! Treatment of the elderly is in a very serious crisis. Today, we have heard again that there are coronavirus infections in Kauniala, for example, and I am extremely concerned about whether the elderly will be admitted to special care from the care of the elderly or whether they will be treated locally. I do think it is important that care in nursing homes is up-to-date and competent, and I regret to say here that we all know that care is prioritised and that hospice situations are constantly being met, and I hope that resources will be allocated to these situations. The situation in the security of supply centre and this Maskigate is truly shocking, and I hope that things will be looked at very well there, not only what shops were at stake and what was ordered and what was obtained, but also how it was possible that the shelves were equipped with material up to eight years old, i.e. what has led to such activities within the Security of Supply Centre. And then, of course, I wonder, if the procurement requests, among other things, have come from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and are responsible for them, what is the role of the Ministry in the purchase of masks which have then failed to meet that criterion? In other words, with these questions and these considerations, I would like to comment on this debate on the supplementary budget initiative. And I'm worried about families. It is very important to take account of:
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u52	Mr President! Minister for Finance At an information conference on the amending budget, Mr Kullun said: ‘The resolution of the interest crisis is not only about the courage of Well, the Minister is right. There is also a need for an understanding of how to allocate the money borrowed so that it has the desired effect. This has already come up in this Chamber. The amending budget is itself about to allocate a laudable amount of money to direct aid to companies. But there will not be the desired effects. The aid only makes sense if it contributes to the survival of the company and not to its destruction, as is now the case for many. It's not about the amount of money. It's about the terms. Mr President! Direct aid is now provided to enterprises as a grant of 80% of the approved costs of the development project. The aid shall not pay any arrears due to the interest rate or any normal operation. The advance is 70 % of the grant, i.e. just over half of the cost of the project. The final payment of the grant may be subject to intermediate payment and always to a final report. Do the government have any idea what this means in real life? In the interim and final reports, business Finland and the Ely Centres will have a new colossal base, i.e. in addition to these applications, intermediate and final payments will be delayed. Thus, for example, in addition to the advance of EUR 70,000, a company receiving EUR 100000 development aid must use EUR 55000 of new money before it receives the remaining EUR 30000. Where does the government think money is going to come from for this development and for this to happen if the reasons for the aid are the difficulties of normal operation due to the epidemic? You might as well lift yourself from the neck to the air. If Finland does not open up and business starts to explode by the beginning of June at the latest, now in April and May, companies that have received aid advances will run out of money by July and August at the latest. How does the government think this is going to work? It's like math, just math, pure mathematics. Mr President! The restrictions have stopped much more in Finland and around the world than the restaurants and diners that have been mentioned here today. In practice, all non-compulsory value chains and activities from large companies and speciality goods trade via the SME sector to sole entrepreneurs and private consumers are halted due to uncertainty. We're not getting a haircut. We're not buying anything extra. Nobody's gonna do anything if you don't have to. It will take a lot longer to restart these value chains than to open a restaurant if there are no more entrepreneurs. And if any company loses a few months of turnover, that hole will never be filled with loans or developmental aid. This, too, is a cold fact, pure mathematics. Mr President! It is not up to the government or the academics who advise it to kill poorly profitable companies. The reduction is a market power issue and the restriction is not a market power. The company’s good or poor profitability is only a small margin on the surface of the total pot it spins. Finland lives by running that total pot, not the results of companies. Unfortunately, there are no government ministers here today, but I am now appealing to the government: understand that the only way to save SMEs and start the economy after restrictions is to compensate for the loss of sales with direct aid, without conditions. This can be done by transforming the development grants now offered, applied for and granted into direct aid, immediately to be paid in full, without any project obligations. We all know what happens with these projects: more bureaucracy, more problems. They employ small entrepreneurs enormously. And we should be confident that Finnish companies will develop when they get through this.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u53	Mr President! However, at this beginning of the supplementary budget debate, I would like to express my thanks to all those who have worked hard and are working hard in this crisis, both health care professionals and social professionals and, above all, all of us Finns who have followed these guidelines and regulations in this very difficult situation. I believe that this second amending budget for 2020 is clear. It has a concrete role to play and it is to ensure that the next steps go beyond this crisis. We will need more amending budgets. What makes this crisis particularly difficult is that, while our motivation is to build a bridge over this crisis, we do not know how long that bridge should be. However, it is our job to ensure that authorities and health professionals have the necessary conditions to safeguard the health and safety of Finns during this crisis. In the amending budget, the government will reimburse the costs of the corona crisis for health care and public authorities. An additional EUR 600 million will be allocated to the purchase of protective equipment, equipment and medicines. Mr President! Support is needed at every level of society. There is a great need for support, and when you listen to the good speeches in this Chamber, you will see that it really is needed and there is plenty of money to spend. The situation is extremely difficult for many entrepreneurs, and it makes it particularly sad that this problem is nobody's fault, but it has come as a crisis of this kind, perhaps even unforeseeable crisis, whose difficulty has gradually increased. This amending budget will increase aid to safeguard business by around EUR 1 billion, of which direct aid in the form of grants amounts to EUR 450 million. As a whole, corporate interest financing is now increasing to around EUR 1.45 billion, and the government is also preparing to secure the daily livelihood of people by EUR 1.5 billion — large, large sums, and, as the Minister of Finance has said, this is one of the biggest supplementary budget proposals that has been made in Parliament. It is important to note that cyclical benefit expenditure in the budget is flexible as necessary. For example, lay-offs or benefits due to unemployment may be such flexible cyclical benefits expenditure. The Korona virus has also brought completely unpredictable and very difficult situations to many families. A lot of people have had to stay home unpaid. A parent who is absent from work without paying for work with children under 10 years of age can therefore apply for temporary support to care for the child. I would like to express my special thanks to the Government for this. Municipalities are also supported. As the Minister of Local Government said earlier here today, municipalities have been supported even before this crisis. About EUR 500 million is now being supported by municipalities, and there is also a package of municipal support for the amending budget in May. I think it should be at least EUR 1 billion in size. Mr President! This year's second amending budget is historically large and decisions are necessary. The amending budget will address the issues on which action now needs to be taken: health, safety and the economy. This is also quite the right order, how to deal with this crisis and how to deal with it: health, safety and the economy ahead. Our society is in debt, but in this situation it is well founded. We can't go on like this forever. I am glad that this indebtedness has not only been accepted in this Chamber as a means to be taken up, but it is also possible now that the previous government put the Finnish economy in order. On the other hand, it has also been said in this Chamber that debt cannot be continued indefinitely. We need to plan this sort of controlled way out of this crisis, and I am pleased that now there are two working groups who are wondering how to get out of this crisis. We need the means to support growth, support work and at the same time ensure that our public finances are on a sustainable footing and that our children and our grandchildren get this country in a better condition. After the crisis, Finland must be restored to the path of sustainable growth, high employment and sustainable public finances. This is certainly not an easy job, but it requires all of us. We must safeguard the structures of the welfare society so that we can continue to guarantee the services needed for Finns so that we can continue to take care of the health, safety and future of our country's citizens. The need for structural reforms is perhaps more topical than ever before — that is, the need for structural reforms has gone nowhere, but is more important than ever. We must invest in education, research and innovation. They create the work and growth I said a little earlier. At the same time, we must ensure that social security becomes more supportive without increasing inequalities. We must not repeat the mistakes made in the recession of the 1990s. In addition to these rights, we must also have an obligation to participate — that is to say, there must be an obligation to participate alongside those rights. Sooner or later, the reconstruction of Finland is ahead. Mr President! Spring is often such a time for gathering together, but now we must remember that we have not yet overcome this epidemic. We must not be lulled into a sense of security now, but we must continue to work hard for it — that is, we all have to work hard — that we are now following these guidelines and guidelines and that we are making sure that these measures now help, and that is where every single Finn can make a difference. I can well understand that being at home may be boring, but now there is no other choice. I thank the government for the rapid preparation of the amending budget and thank the Minister for Finance, Mr Kulmun, for having understood and taken seriously the scale of the human and economic crisis.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u54	Mr President! The government has adopted an historic amending budget, which will be accompanied by further billions of packages in the coming weeks. From the point of view of the virus or the economy, I do not believe that we are still close to the most difficult situation in the crisis. At the end of March, the central government owes nearly EUR 120 billion. On the basis of current data alone, debt is growing by more than EUR ten billion this year. There is at least no amending budget for May, which is of course based on borrowing. Finland had significant long-term economic challenges even before the epidemic. Demographic problems, a reduction in the number of contributors, fiscal imbalances, all of these become considerably worse. The EU is also flashing the need to contribute much less to solving the problems of the countries that have managed their economies. In these times of crisis, the importance of unity has been emphasised several times. This means, among other things, that, as far as possible and unanimously, we will be able to identify and identify the problems, the sectors of society and the issues which, in particular and primarily, need support. While there is always a policy to distribute money and many people to please their own voters, the requirement of unity means, in my view, that we should try not to do so as firmly as possible now. In other words, the distribution of the state's millions should be characterised by very strong pragmatism and pragmatism. Realism is to admit that not everything can be fixed or replaced. Realism should also be accepted that it is not worth calling for new or unrealised rights right now, but that we should ensure that, as a state and society, we get on top of this crisis. Prioritisation means that decision-makers are able to assess the relationship between different needs. If you ask the recipients, they're all in desperate need. A single sector, an operator, an agency, an instance, an industry, an industry which does not itself believe that this is the sector that deserves additional funding and, in times of crisis, some form of compensation. Although the government's additional budget provides a great deal of vital investment for businesses, for example, I cannot praise it for promoting the above-mentioned unity or avoiding politics. On the contrary, the additional budget and the many other intentions of the government mark the very same belief in the endlessness of money as before, before this new crisis. The government has not abandoned any of its projects; on the contrary, it even wants to highlight them. It has not been felt necessary to set priorities. Whether it is about places of electricity charging, extending compulsory education, supporting cultural actors, improving the world: no cuts, no shift of objectives, no change of priorities, no reduction in the role of municipalities, no abandonment of abstract good policy in favour of a concrete, simple, verifiable policy. In such circumstances, it should be possible to abandon secondary or even harmful projects in our country. Mr President! Although there has been a great deal of commendation here, I do not understand, for example, why the cultural sector has been raised separately. It was even mentioned in raising official press releases on the spending limits issue in relation to the survival of businesses, people's livelihoods and agriculture, which is clearly something that the government is particularly pleased with and attaches particular importance to. Would it not have been enough to compensate people for their loss of income for people in the cultural sector? Ministers say that the crisis has been exceptionally hard on the cultural field. Is it really unusual? Most sectors have suffered, after all. I think that the exceptional aspect of the cultural field is that it also works very strongly, or even exclusively, with tax money, under normal conditions. Why was this money not put in direct support to actually make it easier for restaurants, hairdressers, barbers, small shops and the transport industry? Mr Arhinmäki announced here at the beginning of the debate that the contribution of this additional budget to culture is small in proportion to the fact that the money lost by Veikkaus will also be fully reimbursed. In other words, when low incomes are not allowed to beat up coin machines in supermarkets, this is not allowed to affect the beneficiaries. It is quite clear that a lot of useful players are being paid for the money from Veikkaus, but it is equally clear that there are higher-class support lines that need nothing. Perhaps even tragic financial routes between low-income organisations that are addicted to games and those that are useless to our society should be looked at right now when the epidemic has shut down the machines of the supermarkets. It is not that culture is not an essential and important issue, especially in normal circumstances, but that if we prioritise it it is not. Let me give you an example: EUR 40 million will be given to cultural events, companies in the field, theatres, museums and directly to artists and EUR 3 million for art teaching, EUR 20 million for sports and sports, that is, about 63 million in total. That's a lot, even if it's not a huge amount of money when it comes to billions. But it's a huge sum when compared to something. For example, in this additional budget, the police's operating expenditure is proposed for 200000 staff and vehicle costs and for 100,000 material purchases needed to limit mobility. Of course, the police in the first amending budget also received input, but we are talking here about a vital sector, a police force, which, for example, is at the limit of what is required by isolation in Uusimaa, and which is already tight, without adequate safeguards, a profession that is working for the benefit of all of us, for our safety in that front line. If there were time, I would like to talk about climate policy spending, but at the end of the day, I will simply say that, under special circumstances, political decision-makers are required to be able to make pragmatic decisions. It is essential that we get our priorities straight.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u55	Mr President! That is precisely what politics and political choices are about in this situation. It has been seen in the world that different countries have made different choices, and it cannot really be said that none of them would have survived in any way without any damage. This is a challenging balancing exercise in terms of the necessary restrictions, the necessary compensations and its long-term carrying capacity, and this applies both to economic conditions and to human conditions. It was recently reported that mental health problems are now the most common cause of disability pension in Finland. So, for example, the investments in maintaining mental health, which is also done in this draft amending budget by supporting organisations, are precisely the investments that will ensure that the Finnish economy has the long-term capacity to carry it, because all the work done by people is, and only healthy, healthy people will be able to maintain the tax revenues to which the welfare state relies. Therefore, in these situations, caution should be exercised not to cut or to restrict or harm the basic services that keep people’s daily lives and well - being and health up. That is why it is important that the first package of support from this package should now be launched for municipalities in the midst of the corona crisis, because it is the municipalities that are responsible for the basic services running, that every child, young person, elderly person, disabled person or other Finnish citizen gets the support and assistance he needs in the midst of this crisis situation. We are now going through ministries to see how different municipalities have acted, to identify the best possible models and then to ensure that money will certainly not become an obstacle to the health and well-being of Finns under these circumstances. It is quite clear, for example, that although many teachers, seniors and school staff are doing their best to promote the learning of children and young people in distance learning, this crisis will inevitably have an impact on the kind of food that children and young people will return to school in the autumn, so I think it is quite wise that, while we are doing these measures in the acute patching-up phase through these draft amending budgets, we should also try to ensure that in the autumn and then in the autumn of next year and after that, we will have enough money to safeguard the well-being and education of children and young people. In other words, I would not say that it would be wise to go now to consider how to cut these large sums of money during the government term, which are now social security, education and social and health services. It is not to be circumvented that they are the things to which the most money goes in this society and, in my view, it is not possible to cut it under these circumstances, when this exceptional circumstance inevitably creates a human debt there to the well-being and learning of people. In other words, even after the resolution of the acute phase of this crisis, support and assistance are needed, and it is therefore important to ensure that sufficient funding is provided for the future of at least children and young people and the future of other vulnerable groups. In other words, I really hope that the opposition will not require us to cut off these issues at any time, because that was the big mistake after the recession in the 1990s, that is precisely the mistake that we are seeing in a generation a little older than I am now, which unfortunately has not kept to the edge of life and jobs in the same way as those generations which have not been affected by this sort of decline in the welfare state. So it is worth learning and really making sure that Finns are doing well, learning and able to work and taking care of themselves in the future. Now the key decisions are really being made, and therefore the balancing of the economy cannot mean cutting off basic services, cutting education, cutting out children and young people. Of course, we can try to see what are things that do not necessarily need to be spent on in the future, but at the same time we must admit that it has been done in Finland for quite a long time and that it is not quite easy to find where to make them more efficient. Of course, we hope that the opposition will be involved in this too. When we looked at the alternative budget for normal conditions last autumn, there were not quite a lot of proposals to improve the size of the scale, but perhaps after the speeches we have heard in the Chamber today, the situation is different after this crisis — but I really hope that we will not have those cuts in people's well-being and backskin. When we consider the way forward from this crisis, I believe that international cooperation will become even more important. Korona has shown that no country is an island and that, firstly, the economy, but secondly, human health also depends on what is happening in the rest of the world. In a very small area, the disease can spread surprisingly quickly, and that is why even the public health situation in China affects what we have here in Finland. That is why, at this time, we need to strengthen rather than dismantle international cooperation. It is now also very acutely linked to Finland's health situation that it is possible to combat this disease in other countries. The major shortcomings identified in developing countries, for example, also affect whether or not this disease is to be seen in the world, and hence undoubtedly also in Europe and Finland in the coming years. And if the situation is that this disease cannot be effectively eradicated, it may also be reflected in the fact that, unfortunately, economic restrictions have to be introduced from time to time, i.e. the most sensible thing to do now would be to eradicate this epidemic as effectively as possible. Globally, a fine effort has been made, for example, through international cooperation in the development of a vaccine. And it has been a good thing that Finland has left for these projects, because only by taking down this pandemic globally can we make sure that it does not come after a year or two or three years to haunt us and bother us again. So it makes sense to really invest in these international actions now, because it is the only way to ensure that this situation does not recur soon, but that, now that this situation is resolved, then we will get back on the road of recovery and reconstruction and there will be no further epidemic from somewhere else unexpectedly.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u56	Mr President! A year ago, the results of the advance votes were tense, and many probably did not think that one year after that time we were now considering the historic amending budget in the midst of the crisis. Hopefully, in a year's time, we will be in slightly clearer waters from this epidemic itself, but it is unlikely that, at least before the next parliamentary term, Finland will be very much on the rise after this economic blow. This amending budget is in itself a step in the right direction, and no one will be surprised that revenue is falling and expenditure is rising and, as a result, debt-taking is increasing. As such, it is hardly anyone in this situation who has a choice to make. This is where we are now, when in good times we have not been able to save up for bad times: there will be nothing left but borrowing, when even in good times there has been an eating debt. Now would be the time to prioritise it and prioritise it. Debt should only be taken into account for compulsory domestic expenditure. The world's healing must now be forgotten and a government programme that has actually dropped its base in the past. Now, at the very latest, everyone understands that there is no such base. We'll have to rewrite it. Now we need an exit plan at all in this crisis, because this amending budget and all this support is basically just mortaring and carrying water into the well. The problem is that as long as the economy's wheels do not run, those companies will not be able to generate that income and all this over the longer term will be wasted before society is made to function normally. The longer the derogation period goes, the more these areas are affected. We are talking about the restaurant sector, for which special support would be necessary, but if we start going further into the summer, there will be other services, the tourism sector, which loses all income, and as a result there may be a wave of bankruptcy in the country. That is the way forward from this crisis. Mr President! In addition to this, it should be remembered that this event, like the corona crisis, is changing infrastructure not only in Finland but also internationally. In his opening speech, Mr Kulmuni, the Minister for Finance, used the expression that we would be in the'stability of the euro'. How stable is the euro, then, now that the big EU countries are threatening to leave the Union if they do not get their way through the financial packages? The economies of the big countries are so at stake that no package can dam their fall. This may result in an uncontrolled and sudden eruption of the EU or the euro, or even of both. I would therefore like to hear what the government's plan is for such a situation. How do we avoid being paid when the big countries may fall?
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u57	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the government for its responsible action in the midst of this crisis and then also for the speed with which the acute economic needs of the corona have been met. These amending budgets are indeed historic in scale, but they are also historic because we have never lived in a crisis like this since the war. They also show that our government is indeed committed to safeguarding the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond these worst times. There have also been excellent speeches in this part-session, and I would also like to thank colleagues for them. The second draft amending budget will continue the activities already in place and will increase their funding. But there are also new expected targets from health care to education, culture and physical activity, from sports and social activities to improving social and unemployment security, from municipal financial support to agriculture. The resources of the authorities will be strengthened and subsidies to business will expand and grow. As a long-term municipal decision-maker, I have repeatedly raised concerns about the financial sustainability of municipalities to meet the obligations, the growing demand for services and the costs of the corona crisis, which are now very acutely to be resolved. Municipalities are the closest players to citizens, whose role in the midst of this crisis is significant. Mr President! The State is committed to providing financial support to municipalities in this difficult situation. The uncertainty on the municipal level has been enormous, and I am therefore very pleased that in the second amending budget, the revenue losses of municipalities in the current year will be compensated for by nearly EUR 550 million. At the same time, a second aid package of at least EUR 1 billion is already being prepared for May. At present, help is particularly needed by marginalised young people, lonely elderly people, low income families, families in need of child protection, and patients with substance abuse and mental health. People who have lost their jobs are also in great distress, whether they are employees or entrepreneurs. That is why the government secures the livelihood of the people by a total of one and a half billion. This is necessary because lay-offs, redundancies and sudden loss of livelihood affect countless citizens. 1.2 billion will be allocated to unemployment benefit, housing allowance and income support due to the increase in unemployment and lay-offs. The activities of unemployment funds will be supported by 20 million in order to deal with aid applications within a reasonable period of time. The government allocates 272 million to changes in unemployment security, such as securing the livelihood of entrepreneurs. A total of 94 million will be provided with temporary support for absent parents. Finally, Mr President, I would like to emphasise once again the importance of the organisation field and its players in the midst of the crisis and, in particular, in recovering from it. It is great that the communities and foundations will be allocated EUR 5 million to promote health and well-being and that the decrease in Veikkaus' grants will be compensated for. However, I expect that the next amending budget will also provide support for organisations providing social and health services, which are now threatening to be overshadowed by companies in this category of support schemes. EUR 2.5 million will be allocated to youth organisations and youth centres and EUR 1.5 million to outreach youth work and youth art workshops. It is extremely important that young people in particular need of support should be kept in the service sector, because there is now a message from the municipalities that these young people have been very difficult to reach. This time we must not repeat the worst mistakes of the recession of the 1990s, namely that services and preventive support are being cut. If we do that, we will not be able to prevent a similar disaster for which we are still paying the price, both humanly and economically. That is what we must hold onto. Then, at the end of the day, just a few words about this debate, which I have been following for a long time. It is somewhat contradictory to listen to the message that, on the one hand, the opposition is criticising how the government boasts of massive debt and, at the same time, criticising the fact that these crisis measures are not sufficient in scale, then, on the other hand, criticising international cooperation, which is absolutely critical at the moment, whether we talk about the solution or the way out of this global economic shock, whether we talk about preventing a new pandemic wave or not. Mrs Suomela made an excellent speech here, and I will not repeat all those things here. But I still have to say in some way that when we have a debate in this House, it is obviously up to the opposition to blackmail the government, to give as much thought as possible and to give as much thought as possible as possible as to how things could be carried forward, but in spite of that, I think there should be some logic in that debate that we should at least talk about the same things — insofar as the matter is the same on the table, and in so far as our aim is the same. As a rule, thank you very much for an excellent debate.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u58	Mr President! Indeed, the Korona virus has created an unprecedentedly difficult situation for the whole world. Finland has not missed out on this and, of course, this situation poses major challenges and difficulties and difficult decisions, including here in Finland. Both the government and Parliament have had to make very exceptional and difficult decisions, and this is also demonstrated by the second amending budget of this year before us. There is also a record amount of new debt money to support people's health, livelihoods, also improving the situation in municipalities, investing in business, rural business, investing in culture and physical activity, which is a good thing. The Government is committed to securing the well-being of Finns and the survival of companies beyond this difficult crisis with minimal human and financial damage. Building this bridge is extremely important. People must have faith in the future, it is also important. The government has already made rapid decisions to support businesses, and now this second amending budget for this year is taking decisions to ease the plight of municipalities, among other things. Municipalities have been in a very difficult situation for a long time and, of course, the interest rate makes the difficult situation of municipalities even more difficult. The decisions on aid to municipalities and businesses are really important and right. I hope they will receive unanimous support here in Parliament. Municipalities and businesses have been forced to make tough decisions throughout the crisis and beyond, and I believe that today too many municipal governments have had to deal with this difficult issue and the difficult situation at their own meetings. Just hope that we can all get to a normal life as quickly as possible beyond this difficult situation. For companies of different sizes, the government has already managed to tailor different support models, and the support search is ongoing. Thank you to the ministers and ministries for their swift action in those difficult decisions. Support for agriculture's business activities is very important in this situation. It should also be noted that security of supply must be maintained, and therefore sufficient labour must be provided for horticultural and berry farms. Seasonal workers have already been mentioned here in Parliament, and I hope that the situation will also be made easier. Mr President! I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this amending budget highlights the situation of sports clubs. Many sports clubs are doing infinitely worthwhile and also voluntary work, and there are also hired persons doing the moving work. Many sports clubs also have to invest a great deal of their small funds in farm rentals, and now this government is also providing support to sports clubs. I am a little annoyed by the situation in the various sports organisations and sports organisations, and I hope that we will also be able to invest in it in the future. After all, this amending budget invests specifically in the situation of sports clubs and sports clubs, in the situation of the employed worker and in rents, but also in organisations that are facing major challenges when they fail to earn income when big events have to be cancelled. I believe that in the future attention will also be paid to this matter as regards the government, which will then follow when events have to be reversed. Sports clubs make hundreds of thousands of people move, and it is also important for human health and disease prevention, that is a good thing. It is therefore very important that these sports clubs are kept up in the face of difficult conditions. Cultural and youth players are also supported, and that is also a good thing. The protective equipment of care and care staff in particular has given rise to a lot of debate over the last few days and quite on the subject. The money provided in the amending budget for this will indeed be necessary, and I hope that staff will be given sufficient equipment in the future and will be given the equipment quickly, and they will also be of the right kind and quality. I sincerely hope that domestic production will also start as soon as possible. Finland's solutions alone will not stop this crisis, but we ourselves here in Finland can influence how people are doing here in Finland and how people's health is protected. We must also start to think about and make decisions on how to overcome this situation and by means of domestic measures we can also maintain the competitiveness of our country in the future. Mr President! On the basis of current information, Finland has managed to manage the rapid progression of the virus moderately well. The Government's proposals and decisions have been exceptional,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u59	Mr President, värderade talman! Årets andra tillaggsbudget på ungefär 3.6 billion euro är historianisk. Den innehåller omfattande åtgärder för att motarbeta de olägenheter som coronaviruset förväntas orsaka och som det redan oranges. Därför är den unikt stora slutsum fullständigt nödvändig för att samhället och dess functioner ska kunna återhämta sig och fortsätta effter krisen. I tillagsbudgeten satsar regeringen bland you give på att töjda sjukårdsdistrikten genom att komensera dem för både oväntade och höga utgifter som har uppstått i kampen mot viruses. Dossutom föreslås 600 milioner i tillagsanslag för anskaffning av skyddsutrustning och skyddsordningar, produkter och utrustning för älso- och sjukgården samt lkemedel som pandemisituationen behöver. På grund av det utmanande läget på den internationalella marknaden utreds med snabb tidtabell också öjligheten till inhemsk produktion av skyddsmaterial för social- och älsovården. Det är med tanke på vår beredskap och självförsörjning av yttersta vikt att denna produktion kan ättas igång så fort som vöjligt.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u60	Mr President! The government has shown a commendable sense of the situation as soon as it starts supporting the financing of companies in the way required by this very serious crisis. The survival of businesses and the rotation of economic wheels will be promoted through significant funding opportunities for grants and loans. Business Finland manages the financing of more than five employers' enterprises with a total of EUR 1 billion in terms of professionalism and routineness, but the Ely Centres for the financing of employers' enterprises with a maximum of five employees are certainly in great difficulty in this surprising situation when there is a high number of applications. One can agree with Minister Lintilä's assessment, which he made here today, that the Ely Centres need to be strengthened in their decision-making process, otherwise the decision-making process will take far too long. A historical amount will be allocated to sole entrepreneurs. The municipalities operate there and, adding up this first and second additional budget proposal, the sum is as much as EUR 250 million. Such support for sole entrepreneurs has hardly ever been directed in this country. This second amending budget also allocates EUR 30 million to farm-linked businesses and micro-enterprises processing agricultural products. This has to do with the fact that the administrative sector of the Ministry of Agriculture cannot finance activities under the Agricultural Income Tax Act, including forestry and fisheries. The agricultural concept of the Agricultural Income Tax Act is written in such a way that it includes the actual agricultural, special agricultural and agricultural and forestry activities which are not to be regarded as a separate movement. This has been done to a large extent to simplify taxation, but there may be significant activity on a farm and on a unit-by-unit basis. It seems that, now that only EUR 30 million is being allocated to this farm-linked business, it may have been taken from the wrong hat in relation to these amounts of euro that are being channelled through the TEM into business. Well, it is good that there is at least this 30 million — it may be that, depending on the number of applications, it will then have to be increased in the next additional budget. There are a wide range of activities there, such as farm tourism, which involves significant accommodation and catering activities throughout the country, and of course suffers just as much as similar activities financed through the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr President! Local government finances are also significantly supported in this additional budget by providing compensation to municipalities for tax-paying arrangements and tax losses resulting from deferred payments of EUR 547 million. In the third additional budget to be given in May, there will be more money for the municipalities, at least another amount, which will bring them up to at least one billion. The municipalities need support. They were already in difficulty, but, of course, this interest rate certainly weakens tax revenues very quickly and in this way makes it difficult for municipalities to operate. But in May the effects of this corona virus on municipalities can probably be further assessed. Mr President! The government has taken a number of measures in favour of entrepreneurs. If I say, in a list of things, The employer’s contribution to pension insurance has been reduced by 2.6 percentage points between May and December 2020. It has been possible to obtain entrepreneurship allowance in such a way that business activities do not need to be discontinued. The Tax Administration has taken a decision to accept a reduction in the advance tax for 2020 or a modification of the advance tax on the basis of the taxable person’s own declaration without any interim or other written explanation. These are important issues for facilitating business operations. Mr President! Surviving the interest crisis with minimal human and financial damage is, of course, our most important objective. As soon as the situation permits, society's activities must gradually be opened up in such a way that the risk of infection increases as little as possible in relation to the increase in economic activity. Now, however, we are in the middle of a crisis, and there are still too many uncertainties to assess the economic situation.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u61	Ärade talman, Mr President! Hanteringen av coronakrisen visar att vi har en handelskraftig regering. Undantagsförhållanden kräver snabba och mycket exceptionella åtgärder och ekonomiska grepp. Det är redan den andra tillaggsbudgeten på kort tid och den är rekordstor.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u62	Mr President! As a result of the interest-rate crisis, we have an exceptionally heavy draft amending budget at this reading. The health and economic consequences will only become clearer in the future. All possible means must now be used to limit the harmful effects of the corona as effectively as possible. The good thing about this draft amending budget is that there is an attempt to support the activities of various administrative sectors. Of course, there are some points to make. I hope and believe that the carrying capacity of our country's health care system will be constantly monitored. Money should not be caught by anyone's life. I believe that Finland must take responsibility for the health of both the disabled and the elderly — the elderly, who are threatened by limited capacity for intensive care while they remain on the priority list. It cannot be that people who worked for Finland for their age and paid their taxes are now turning their backs. I would like to stress the importance of ensuring that financial support is effective through administrative means. Employment and Economic Development Offices, for example, are already under pressure, and in addition to additional funding, other means must also be used to improve the efficiency of activities, for example by reducing the requirements of the process. It will not help either if we have companies in their lives and money has been allocated but it cannot be channelled in time. Kela is also on a hard track: the support treatments are stretched, and the benefits are delayed. Mr President! For businesses operating in rural areas, 30 million are proposed plus 10 million. This amount is not enough at all. Now we have to take care of our farms, or we're about to run out of bread. The equity ratio must remain high in the future. It will prove even more valuable than gold. In particular, the EU is in distress as a result of the particularly severe impact of the interest rate on countries whose economies have already been in turmoil before this crisis. Finland has a serious place at hand. Recovering from the crisis is going to cost a lot of money. We must now consider how far we are paying for the violins of other countries. Finns must have confidence that our own country will support our own citizens to the full. You have to be able to trust it. The government program that was created last spring, where money has been put to stink of any kind of tea party, has not helped to get out of date. I call on the government to write a new programme that is consistent with the current situation, in which the key line is responsible spending of money ahead of Finland's interests. In this situation, for example, it makes no sense to put money and administrative resources in place for an expensive and questionable extension of compulsory education. Similarly, ambitious climate targets must now be left behind in this disaster. This is a serious threat to the lives and health of Finns and to the economy and future of our country. There will be a huge amount of feedback from the field for all of us: the small entrepreneur will be exhausted from over-complaints from the Tax Administration or the body providing support — a lot of these feedbacks will come. The health of carers working at home is at stake, there are not enough protective equipment available. There are not enough protective equipment in the health sector as a whole. For example, if a home care nurse has a cold, she is often told: “Be on the run for the week afterwards. “ Well, let's not do any tests anyway. This is a serious situation. The situation of carers is also very vulnerable. There is no additional funding for this, at least for the time being. Then there is the real difficult situation for persons with a default mark in the enforcement proceedings. Just a couple of hours ago, I got a call, a guy called, he's in the enforcement. He's got a good payment plan. Just about enough money when your wife's at work. She's in a lay-off situation now, which means she's been laid off. This man had called the enforcement authority and now asked for payment time. They say they don't promise at all, which means that the previous plan holds, and they have to pay, and he was very worried about how their family is getting along. Then again, it is positive that more money has now been promised for sports and sports. It is really important that people keep themselves in good shape, and especially that there is a little extra funding for social activity at this difficult time. But here I would also underline people's own responsibility for having the opportunity to engage. Let's do it and move because it's for your health, for your neighbor, for your health, for your society, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your health, for your And now for supporting culture. Personally, I am pleased that culture is being supported with additional funding, but I particularly underline the support for culture that should be targeted at that grassroots level. We talk a lot about the situation of artists who are top artists when they don't have gigs. But let's say that 97 percent of all artists are artists who travel around the country, their gigs are very small — and musicians. Their situation is difficult. They do not get to the pages of magazines or live TV shows, which means that their situation is difficult. Then the festivals, usually the organizers of events,
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u63	Mr President, Mr Värderade Talman! Exceptional measures are needed in exceptional circumstances. Now the government is bringing in an exceptionally large second draft amending budget to save businesses, jobs and our welfare state as a whole. This shows that the government is taking this crisis very seriously. Yes, action is urgently needed. The Korona virus situation is currently threatening the livelihood of many Finnish entrepreneurs. There is now a significant increase in subsidies to businesses, amounting to around EUR 1 billion. The Government's draft amending budget also includes crisis support for rural areas and fisheries.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u64	Mr President! The government is proposing an exceptionally large amending budget so that we can deal as well as possible with this corona crisis. Health care and dealing with the acute crisis are, of course, a priority in this situation. The Government will show significant financial investments in the purchase of protective equipment, medicines and equipment, among other things. It is also critically important to secure a livelihood for everyone in the midst of this crisis, and this amending budget also responds to that. At the same time, we must strive to save the long-term welfare of a constructive framework, such as jobs, conditions for entrepreneurship and culture. The cultural sectors have been hit by these restrictions in the first wave, in particular by events and cultural activities which require people to meet, that is, quite a bit by all those involved in this field. It is difficult to transfer culture to a remote task or virtual event, although some interesting and creative, admirable solutions have been seen in this area, but these solutions, however, raise funding mainly for people's goodwill. The loss of ticket income and the cancellation of work have caused a huge financial situation for the cultural sector. Very often, free artists lack a support network similar to that of ordinary employees. Although not many of them originally sought such a freelancer’s position, in the cultural field they are common forms. Many traditional cultural events are also at risk, not just next summer, but completely, because many cultural companies would be threatened with bankruptcy without significant state aid. It is particularly difficult to produce events in this situation because we do not know when we will be able to dismantle the restrictions on assembly. I do not want to imagine a Finland where there is no rich and extensive cultural offering, what we have, fortunately, been able to get used to. The recovery from the crisis at individual level will also facilitate access to culture, when we will then be able to give up the restrictions in the future, if the disease situation so permits. Culture also plays an important role in maintaining mental endurance. This amending budget therefore provides significant support for culture, some EUR 40 million for cultural and artistic loss of income. This money is really going to come in handy. Similarly, 3 million in central government contributions to basic education and about 20 million in grants to sports and sports are presented. A total of EUR 4 million would also be expected for youth organisations, workshops and youth work. The total amount of aid will therefore be EUR 60 million. Critically important support is also the right to unemployment allowance for self-employed persons and freelancers in the cultural sector. Fortunately, helpful hands have quickly been found elsewhere. The large Finnish foundations, the Ministry of Education and Culture and the Arts Promotion Centre have already decided on millions of subsidies. The news about facilitating rents in many directions has also been welcomed with joy. In addition, YLE has announced that it will increase the supply of Finnish culture to a fair degree in its software this spring, which will help to fill the financial gap in the sector. The contribution of this amending budget will be a great need in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u65	Mr President! I believe that the course of the amending budget, although historically large, is the right one, and I do not believe or feel that the size of the coalition has been criticised by any means. On the contrary, we may even have been a little concerned about certain points, which we would even like to see a little more invested in here and now. On the contrary, we are concerned about certain points and, as I said, I think that the size of the amending budget and, more or less, where the money is currently being put, are heading in the right direction. Perhaps a few comments on the amending budget that where would we like to put more money as a contribution? First of all, there's this test. We have proposed 200 million for this because it is clear that when we want to do this exit in Finland at some point, it needs to be tested as well as possible. “Test,track,sort out ”a functioning model that has been used in many other Asian countries, and I’m I think it was the case that Mr Kulmuni, the Minister of Finance, said that testing would cost a billion dollars if it were a working whole — good. We do feel that much more resources need to be put into testing, and unfortunately that is what is missing from this amending budget. The second entity, which was actually decided by Parliament, was this fastening of restaurants. And when a parliament like this makes a radical decision, I would like to, or we would also wish as a party that it would be answered immediately. Unfortunately, this has not been answered. The Tourism and Restaurant Association fears that 30-40% of restaurants will go bankrupt, with between 30,000 and 40,000 people soon out of work if Parliament and the government do not react quickly. That is why we have now presented 150 or 200 million, and it is actually an estimate of what this sector needs in a month. That is why it is urgent — the first bankruptcies have been seen — and we would like the government to react as quickly as possible. The third entity is actually the sports sector, in which the government now put 20 million, which is a good start, but it must always be remembered that, for example, the Olympic Committee in its own estimates estimates that they would need 81 million in this distress. This 81 million is until the summer, which would mean that from the summer onwards everything will continue to be normal, and we all know that this will not be the way it will be. There's already football shows in the hold, they haven't started on time, next comes the baseball, and so on and so on. For this money that these clubs would receive: it also has a lot of social work, it has a lot of volunteer work, so that loss is going a long way now. Very likely, this limit of 500 people will be the last limit that will be lifted in Finland, and it can take a long time. That is why this $20 million will not be enough. That 80 million would have been the minimum amount for this distress. But I am sure that this will be discussed and discussed in the future, because in every city, every municipality has a team that is now very close to bankruptcy, and they are big things for the community if this happens. In fact, as a final comment, I could say that I am somewhat concerned that certain municipal tasks are still on the lists, even though they are going to cost hundreds of millions of dollars to the municipalities, which are currently in complete stalemate. I would also like the government to consider extending compulsory education and this question of carer qualification in the future, because these will then come along as a fall for these municipalities, which are in a very bad state at the moment. In the next few years, however, there is no room for any increase in the number of tasks in the municipal sector. On the contrary, we should talk about how we could reduce municipal tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u66	Mr President! More than half a hundred speeches have already been made here today, which, as a rule, have dealt with this amending budget almost unanimously, recognising this enormous scale, which is what this amending budget is, but also supported, that is to say, a positive approach. It is understood that we are living in a critical crisis, and then this money is an instrument. Mr President! In addition to these contributions, which raise individual interests, I myself wanted to take the floor a little bit on this general line, the basic line chosen in Finland, and in this respect, too, this amending budget on this scale... [First Vice-President AnttiRinne : RepresentativeKiljunen, please move to the left of the seat. ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u67	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u68	[[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]] [[Technical problem: content could not be processed by the linguistic parser]]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u69	Mr President! Indeed, in this amending budget I would have liked to see a little bit in advance that the carbon-neutral Finland objective was no longer so strictly respected, because even before the corona crisis, it was practically impossible to implement. Now, of course, I can say that if that was impossible then what it is now. I think that the whole government programme should have started to think again because of this crisis, and I hope that this will be tackled, because the situation is that it must be remembered that there is such a long process of getting this right, that it needs more governments, more prime ministers to get this right, and, in a way, that it is not already going to be done in the way it should be done, is a little irresponsible of future governments, because they have to solve those economic problems anyway. With this amending budget, I would have liked to see a much larger amount of money being spent on supporting businesses, because the situation is that at this stage we would need as much money as possible to support businesses, because it would mean that less money would be needed for the rest if we were to be able to maintain much more jobs. It's a challenge. On the weekend, I took a look at the financial package opened by the Ely Centre, and I am surprised that Minister Lintilä is here to criticise the fact that the Ely Centres are not able to deal with these issues. Well, now I have to say that when you go out there to make that petition, the first thing you have to do is figure out which expert to take care of this matter. First of all, the confusion is that, hey, do we now ask the brother's godfather to be an expert on it? No, we'll have to find that expert on the Ely side. And yet, for some reason, a story has been made that it does not pretend to be direct aid, but that it is something of a need to change a company, even though, in reality, everyone knows that now there is no point in many companies starting to think they are changing the way they are going, because there are quite a lot of people going in the direction of change, and that field is usually already being refurbished, let alone now, when, in any case, the purchasing power has left the place to which it could be directed. So, quite a lot of criticism is now being made of making it so difficult, because it is now challenging to do so, and then the background of companies is being studied very carefully. However, when a company is applying for a subsidy of EUR 2000, it has to find out all sorts of things — research and research. This study should have been carried out, for example, in these mask stores, where the $5 million pot was involved. That is what I would have liked to see in the amending budget, in fact, that it would have been possible to suspend the enforcement for three to six months, because there will be an enormous amount of congestion in the enforcement, even because of future cases, and that would have given us such new purchasing power in the midst of this crisis. So the problem with a lot of people who have been in the process of enforcement is that they have just enough money left for them to pay their bills. In fact, in quite many cases, the spiral is such that you cannot pay, but recycle all the bills in the enforcement, i.e. you do not pay one single bill. Not many will likely, necessarily even open the letters that come home because they know they cannot be paid. And, of course, it's going to take a lot of time to recycle through the extraction. Although I myself am a customer there, I do not have the same situation, I am not talking about my own case in that sense, but about the fact that for people who are left behind after living or after paying the bills, practically only what is needed for food, at the moment a hundred or two more to spend their period, it means that it will certainly be wasted on local companies, which would help them, first of all, with purchasing power, and then, then, at some point, tax revenue will come back. And I could really use some investment. The transport projects that have already been mentioned and what has been proposed, I would certainly like to see a rapid start, because they would provide the right kind of support for businesses and workers. When it comes to sensible action, it would not be necessary to support so much of the so-called standing business, but to get some of that nonsense out there and get some work for the companies. From this point of view, even Minister Haraka, I threw a little catch, and Minister Harakka felt that the Elys should be put under pressure to make money out of it, but in reality — I was in contact with the living the very next day — the situation is that all the money of the elys, what is there, has already been to be wasted without a corona. In other words, much more resources would be needed to get this country to roll over again. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u70	Mr President! In this debate, and earlier in this corona debate, ministers and representatives have said on many occasions that mistakes in the 1990s should not be repeated. I couldn't agree more. It is then important to think about what the mistakes of the 1990s were and at what stage they were made. In 1994, the Socialist MP, Liisa Jaakonsaari, made the so-called list of ten points, all relating to cuts in social benefits. Among other things, there were cuts in child allowances, unemployment benefit, the right to deduct interest on housing loans and student support. They were then included in the Lipponen Government’s programme as such, and the Lipponen Government took these measures in practice in 96 C.E. At that point, I felt that this was a completely wrong policy. It was, of course, preparing for the euro, EMU membership, and that is why it was necessary to make such cuts in public finances, but they were targeted at the most vulnerable at that stage — and they were, of course, mistakes that must now be learned, and they must not be made again. What happened before that Alice list was published in the early '90s? Of course, that was the deepest stage of the recession. It was the result of the liberalisation of the money markets in the 1980s, of foreign exchange loans and of living beyond funds in this country, and then, from the year 90 C.E., it erupted into a deep recession that was quite different from our crisis at the moment. Then the government had a debt crisis. The State did not receive any debt, as it currently does in practice receive unlimited loans. In that sense, it is much easier now to do so than the government is now doing, in many respects wisely. Eli was in a sovereign debt crisis, and Minister Viinanen had to go around the globe and look for a loan from somewhere to the state. Well, creditworthiness was already in such danger that it was difficult to get it, but we got it anyway. Then there was the second crisis, the banking crisis. We had almost a thousand banks then in this country, now we have a handful. And among those banks there were so many banks in a complete crisis. If they had been allowed to collapse, the entire financial system would have been destroyed: there would have been no wages, no pensions, no transfers by the state or by companies, and so on. So it was not possible to do so, and that is what Parliament unanimously decided to introduce bank support, and this saved a large number of companies through banks and banks, but unfortunately not all of them could be saved. Well, we did not have a system like Finnvera in the whole country, for example, which is now a huge help and advantage in this, if it is used wisely. Mr President! This is from history. Now we have this amending budget, which is largely in place, well-built. The most important thing is, of course, to stop the epidemic, and in that respect the lack of adequate interference with testing and thus with the spread of the corona, but the consequences are already being addressed in such a way that the conditions for companies to remain standing are being taken into account, and there are opportunities for this now, as I have just mentioned. This model has many parts: these sole entrepreneurs are through municipalities, then through ely centres there is this loan guaranteed by Finnvera, then there is Business Finland, which manages the part, and then there is – which is often forgotten – the Bank of Finland’s billion, with which the Bank of Finland is buying large companies’ bonds, business certificates, so that these large companies are also getting funding if they need it, i.e. the system is in place. But there has now been a rather serious problem in this particular part of the funding through the Ely Centres. The Ely Centres will have to demand that the company applying for funding there has a development project for which it will apply. Today, in committee, I asked whether it would not be possible to amend the regulations so that there would not be a development project in this situation, because it is quite clear that an entrepreneur whose doors have been closed is empty, but a pile of invoices is growing on the table, does not develop that company, but needs acute money to handle those bills and keep his business going. This is what we are talking about, and this ely money, this funding through the ely, is not taking sufficient account of this. To that I pay serious attention to the fact that the government will correct it. Then there are a few other things that should be quickly addressed. There is also a situation following these difficulties, that is to say, we are passing on a huge bill to future generations, and this is a moral issue that we must silently think about and make noise here. And I would like to point this out because the government should immediately start looking at the budget for this year and cut out those who are not necessary, legal or wage-related or similar, and so prepare for what lies ahead. It is wrong for this generation to leave this country in as bad a state as it seems to be for the next generation. And then I will warn you about this situation in Europe. Now that the government is going to save Italy and Spain and other Mediterranean countries, that path is very dangerous for the whole system.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u71	Mr President! The second amending budget for this year is, of course, hard to read in itself. 3.6 billion in expenditure is increasing, and that is the kind of thing that reflects the depth of this crisis. When you look at the other worrying figure, it is this reduction in tax revenues: EUR 1094 million reduces tax revenue from what was budgeted. In other words, this crisis is going to strike two ways: through a reduction in tax revenue, it will reduce the revenue of the state. And then the other thing is that it will increase government spending enormously through unemployment, through the increase in social and health care expenditure. There are negative things happening across the various sectors of society that take money away from public finances. This is today's reality, and the government has reacted to it, and that is a good thing. Now we need to make sure that we keep this system called Finland up and start preparing for the future gradually so that we keep our businesses standing, Finland is able to function and, above all, we take care of people's lives and health and see that every person who needs help gets it too. To this end, Mr President, I would like to say one thing a little from outside this proposal, and that is that now that we are preparing for whether or not we should: The borders of Uusimaa open to free movement across Finland: no way. If we make that mistake tomorrow, or whenever we do, if the government does, it will lead us to have enough and plenty of such additional budgets. Under no circumstances should we open the borders now. Now we have to be patient enough to get this corona virus out of our own hands. We must remember at the moment that another wave of corona virus is in China, and if it comes to Finland at the same time, when we have successfully spread this virus everywhere in Finland, what are we going to do? Mr President, that is a very serious situation. Then there is already talk of the great crisis in this nation, which no one has anticipated to date, except in the war. This is why we need to find common sense in Finland now, and the government must be cool in considering maintaining these restrictions on movement and preventing these additional budgets from being needed much more now. It is clear that such a serious disease will cause unexpected situations in the future. Nobody knows, but we know what will happen if we behave irresponsibly, yet the President has done a good job of caring for distance in this Chamber. It is an excellent activity to keep distances, restrict movement and behave rationally. That is the only way, and that is why I hope, Mr President, that the government will take these matters seriously. Of course there are opinions that can be moved here and there, but now is such a time that you have to have reason in your head and cool reflection. Finally, Mr President, one last thing: Looking to the future, we must remember that this crisis, which is now growing in the world, can cause many other problems in the future that will hit our energy production, our food supply, our industry, which is necessary for Finland, for example our pharmaceutical industry, for everything else. We now need self-sufficiency and security of supply in this country to finally be real. If we have a hard freeze in the next winter, we will be in very great trouble with energy, which means that energy policy must now be rational. Agriculture must be put into good shape in this country. With our own decisions, we have pushed the food economy and, above all, agriculture, its basic production, into a situation which is not worthy of this country. That is why, Mr President, I hope that this Parliament and the Finnish Government will now find wisdom and foresight in our ability to make the right decisions. Preparations for the crisis, as is the case with this additional budget, are entirely in our own hands, but it is also worth remembering that if we make serious mistakes, then we will have to pay the price for that too. It is at its worst the loss of people’s lives and health, and that is where the parliament will never go.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u72	Mr President! The Government is drawing up an amending budget in absolutely exceptional circumstances, and the task is challenging. Although a great deal has already been done to save jobs and help businesses, much remains to be done in this crisis. However, I think that the government has taken very good note of the concern that people have. A lot of people have lost their jobs. A lot of people still don't know what's gonna happen with the job. Many companies have had to bring their activities to a minimum or to a halt, and the weeks that come for many companies and the government's support measures dictate what happens. I believe that the government has a sincere desire to tackle these challenges. This draft amending budget includes additional support to be distributed through Business Finland, ely centres and municipalities of around EUR 450 million. The Board of Directors also invests in rural enterprises, increases Business Finland's product development loans and capital investments in industrial investment. These are all good measures that will soften the economic impact of the crisis and will also help rise from this valley of death of the economy when the time comes. However, it has to be said that these amounts are not enough for this situation. The way in which the support measures are managed is still slow. I hope that the government will now listen to this concern and look at ways in which this important job and business rescue operation can be carried out even better. I am particularly concerned about self-employed people now. Their support measures are far from adequate. For example, the state could manage direct payments in a very straightforward manner without a great deal of red tape. One way to do this could be for the state to take on the social insurance contributions of businesses and entrepreneurs for a period of time. It will cost more, but it will cost even more to allow jobs to disappear and companies to collapse. Now it would be an opportunity for the government to show how the speeches will turn into practical actions. Mr President! The Committee on Constitutional Affairs required that restaurants be compensated for the economic effects of their closure. This has not yet been put forward by the government, and it should be quickly received by Parliament. It is not the case that the government fails to carry out the unanimous will of the Parliament, is it? Special thanks to the government for also taking into account the plight of sports clubs. It is important to help sports clubs in this difficult time, but more is needed. This present act is only a good start. Mr President! I believe that the government is making a sincere effort to safeguard the well-being of Finns. The measures proposed are generally good, but they are not yet fully adequate. More solutions are needed and a plan is needed to get this country on its feet and to flourish again after the crisis has passed. This is a difficult task, and it requires extensive parliamentary cooperation and also involving the opposition in order to succeed. I trust that the Government will take these considerations into account, and I also trust that the Government will continue to seek new ways of minimising the disadvantages of the crisis for Finns.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u73	Mr President! The government's proposal for an additional EUR 9.4 billion is a huge sum, and it does reflect the difficult and serious situation we are facing as a nation at the moment. I am afraid that this situation could get worse if this corona epidemic is not overturned. It is true that the current slow-down measures are heading in the right direction, but they clearly do not send out the signal that we want this to be overturned. In this past few weeks, when I have followed this collaboration between the THL and the government and many others, I have sometimes noticed that the phone is totally broken in many respects. THL has frequently changed its positions in these anti-coronavirus activities and should nevertheless represent the highest expert body in this country. It is good that this has also been noted in the government and has been called for more detailed assessments of this corona virus. I would like to raise a few points here. This probable end to the isolation of Uusimaa — which the government is doing, if this information is correct — should be well thought-out. If this isolation is ended, then we will acknowledge that this virus may spread more freely than it is now. The reason for this is, for example, that there is also a province in the Kemi-Tornio region where this virus is spreading in the same proportion as in Uusimaa. There the reason is obvious: we have allowed it to spread from Sweden to Finland, and we have not taken action in time to prevent this spread. It is not in itself a valid argument, and I do not believe that the Constitutional Committee has now shrugged at it so that it has not allowed this isolation of Uusimaa to continue with the decision of Parliament. However, if this isolation now ends for Uusimaa, it would be very important to take further compensatory measures. In the past, for a few weeks now, I have been trying to call for one very effective and good substitute to be imposed on all citizens when they are dealing in public places. In public places I mean, for example, shopping in grocery stores, shopping in pharmacies and travelling in public transport. This line has already been introduced in several dozen countries or will soon be introduced. Perhaps the best example of how this is to be done is Turkey at the moment. In Turkey, a free face mask is distributed to each, to just over 80 million people each week. Every week, people living there get five free facial masks. This is a cheap and sensible preventive measure. If everyone uses facial masks, then we cannot infect each other and we show respect for each other: I do not want to expose you possibly because of my asymptomatic infection. I would hope that the government will now go through this matter very carefully in its group and listen to the experts who have recently also been expropriated in Finland. In fact, THL itself has also said and published that everyone should wear some kind of mask in front of his face. This is a new twist from THL, of course, before that the WHO has had to point the way quite a number of times, but now that this message has been received, we should not get caught up in the illusion that these masks will not be available. I have been following this situation very closely for almost two months, and all this time these face masks have been available to Finland almost without restriction. The message that has been in the media over the past few weeks that face masks are not available is not true. An outside reader may also indicate that this is not the case. The head of the Security of Supply Agency mentioned that they received up to 100 different offers and even out of 100 they had to try to find the right, genuine, functional masks, and they did not succeed in doing so. I myself have received these communications from companies over 20, and many have also provided me with those offers during the month, although I do not make any decisions about it, but I have picked up such offers from there, such as the offer of ten million face protectors from the 3M factory at once, so of course I have provided those offers to the Supply Security Centre and also to various other parties to check whether these are true. Several entrepreneurs in Finland have been in contact with the fact that their offers have never been responded to or answered, and this is worrying. This is extremely worrying that we do not have the understanding of the situation that we are taking up the offers that have been offered in this situation. Mr President! I would just like to talk about this next point, which concerns an increase in the number of tests. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has long spoken, among other things through Minister Kiuru, that we are going to increase the number of tests. I have spoken to him several times over the past few weeks, and he promised in time — if you remember — that we would increase the number of tests, and that was when that increase rose to 2,300 tests a day, almost a month ago. The last two weeks have been said that we can take 4,000 tests a day, but the statistical fact is that in the last 30 days 1450 tests have been taken per day, in the last 14 days an average of 1821 tests have been taken per day and in the last seven days 1914 tests per day, so it has not been possible to get to the number of days of 2300 or 2400 tests, even though the minister has now said that we can raise it to 10,000 tests per day. How can this be done if the government does not add any appropriations to it in the amending budget? This question remains open. I hope that there will be a clear answer and an exit. We must accept the offers that companies currently offer, that they will be able to do [The President knocks ]
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u74	Mr President! There is indeed a record-breaking amending budget. I'm talking about a few things. Firstly, in order for us to be able to go ahead with health in the coming months, this country needs a so-called exit programme, and it also involves what is the level of protective equipment in health care, social care, but also on the safety side and right among the citizens in the coming months, and also what is the testing capacity. There must be an emergency call from companies. Effective and prompt action must be taken, especially on the restaurant side, but also on the other hand. Municipalities need support measures so that they do not cut off all preventive measures. The financial distress of the municipalities is already difficult. Fourthly, this support for sports and sports in the amending budget is insufficient. And in the fifth, we will have to pay even more attention to support for children and young people and families in the coming weeks. Mr President! Then on this economic framework of the amending budget. Thus, the Finnish economy is expected to decline by 5.5 per cent at the end of this year, as demand in the export markets is severely congested and the blocking measures to prevent the spread of the corona virus limit people's movement and even business. All demand items are decreasing, most strongly exports, private investment and private consumption. The importance of public investment and procurement is thus increasing. Employment is deteriorating significantly. The Ministry of Finance forecast has been made on the assumption that measures limiting economic activity would last for three months. Estimates of the duration of the restrictions preventing the spread of the corona virus change on a daily basis and make the assessment of the situation exceptionally difficult and uncertain. We must aim to ensure that the effects of the corona virus are expected to fade and the economy recover rapidly towards the end of 2020. Mr President! Actions to save entrepreneurs, businesses and jobs: It is good that a number of legislative proposals have been discussed in this Chamber over the last few weeks to ease the pain of entrepreneurs and businesses and also to save jobs. But I must say that I am disappointed that the Marin Government did not prioritize this package of support for restaurants required by Parliament in this amending budget. After all, we unanimously decided that ‘the government would require the government to explain how reasonable compensation for damage caused by the income and operating conditions of restaurant entrepreneurs is beingimplemented,that the financial losses are distributed in a lawful manner,that the protection of property With regard to this proposal by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Parliament's decision, it has already been three weeks, and in that sense I do not understand why this Parliament's will has not been implemented in this large amending budget and even some proposals have been brought here in that direction, because we are, however, taking these matters forward under the exceptional conditions of cooperation here. The second issue relates to companies and to the support of self-employed workers, to which the amending budget allocates EUR 250 million. If there were a minister here to answer, or if there is a colleague who knows, I would specifically ask that, when this EUR 2000 grant has been allocated to the sole proprietors, what if the restrictive measures are going to last — and if it seems that the restrictive measures are going to last — for a longer time, what will happen to the sole proprietors for whom that EUR 2000 really is not enough? I received e-mail from a masseuse from our region of North Ostrobothnia, for example. The mother of five has practically supported her family. He will be able to receive this maximum of EUR 2000 once. Ok, but if you think of a masseuse, he has practically lost all his customers and there is no prospect that he can support it elsewhere. And therefore, the EUR 2000 subsidy is not enough to support five children in a situation where even school food does not bring relief to the family’s everyday life. Then, briefly, about these protective equipment and testing. The Coalition Party proposed an additional EUR 200 million for testing. It is very important that these tests should be carried out. It is unfortunate that you get a message from citizens from both Kittila and here from the south that testing is not possible or that you have to assess for yourself whether there is a need for testing. Or it is that a person is employed by a vpk, for example, he has had flu symptoms, but he is unable to return to the line because he has not been able to get to the test so that he can in a way verify that he is coronanegative, or he knows that he is positive. Then, Mr President, the situation in the municipalities and municipalities. In municipalities, the corona crisis is visible on many levels. First of all, almost all the measures that we have put in place here in Parliament are being implemented in the municipalities, both in terms of local and remote education and in terms of social and health care. The Government decided to support municipalities now primarily through central government transfers. This aid is precisely a start, because we all know in this Chamber that the economic situation in the municipalities is difficult. Example of my own home town in Oulu: It has been calculated that with the interest rate crisis, tax revenue will decrease by EUR 50 million by the end of this year and the same EUR 50 million will increase the costs of the hospital district. However, the central cities pay between 45 % and 60 % of these costs for hospital districts. For example, this impact of EUR 100 million on the city of Oulu is 3 tax districts. For sports and sports: The Coalition Party has presented a package of EUR 100 million in support of physical activity and sport
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u75	Mr. Speaker! First of all, just a few comments on these contributions to the Assembly and also on the demands made by the previous speaker to increase the support of entrepreneurs, particularly in the restaurant and café sectors, and then also on this lack of money for sole entrepreneurs. However, from this latter point of view, it must now be noted that the additional budget includes a substantial resource of 250 million for the distribution of municipalities. There will certainly then be additional funding, if the situation so requires, and the next additional budget will be available in May. It must be remembered that this unemployment benefit for an entrepreneur has already been put into effect, and there is no obstacle to the fact that at the same time the sole entrepreneur and this unemployment benefit will be increased if the activity has ceased and will then receive its direct support of EUR 2000 through the municipality. It could be said that a significant proportion of sole proprietorship receives good compensation in relation to many others who lose their jobs or business income for a month, two or more. This special support for the restaurant sector, which the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs outlined in their opinions, must be built on, but it must also take account of the elements that already exist. So there will be both this support for sole entrepreneurs and then the support to be distributed through the elys of small businesses, a little bigger support through Business Finland and then a loan facility, funding through Finnvera, plus then these tax reliefs, deferrals, reliefs and deferrals of social and pension contributions, so there will be quite a lot of them. However, it is precisely because of this exceptional closure decision that these nutritionists and businesses will then have to arrange for a summary, precisely in connection with this activity that violates the freedom to conduct a business, and it will be prepared by the Ministry of Employment and the Economy. The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy will give more detailed reasons for both the operation of these subsidies and the kind of training that must be provided for their application in order to avoid as much damage as possible. The same applies to these other exceptionally large funds, such as 600 million for procurement. It's an interesting budget figure. When there have normally been about half a million, it was first put at 60 million and then at 600 million. And perhaps there is also the fact that this procurement organisation has been pushed into motion very quickly and seems to have made some terrible mistakes at the very beginning. Let us hope that they will be quickly learned and that this procurement effort will be put in good shape. This general situation. According to a recent estimate by the Bank of Finland, it is still possible that the Finnish economy will start to recover after the summer. This would require rapid control of the transmission of the corona virus and the introduction of restrictive measures. However, the spread of Koronapandemia in Europe and Finland has so far continued and the risk of long-term economic effects has increased. Mortality continues to grow strongly in many European countries. However, in Italy and Spain, for example, which have suffered most in relation to the past, there are already emerging signs of a slowdown in the rate of mortality growth. In many Asian countries, the increase in mortality by restrictive measures is clearly slower than in Europe. According to the Bank of Finland, a rapid recovery is still possible if restrictive measures are not in place for a very long time and if policy measures are successful in avoiding a wave of corporate bankruptcy and high unemployment. Businesses and households can only rely on the future when there is a prospect of stopping the spread of the corona virus. On the other hand, if the spread of the pandemic has to be slowed down for a long time by comprehensive isolation of people, economic activity will be dramatically reduced. The number of bankruptcies and unemployment can rise significantly and increase the social cost of the crisis to an unacceptable level. This distress has been ignored in many speeches and then referred to these experiences of the 1990s. Of course, the situation is completely different on the financial markets. At the time, the main causes of the company’s collapse were these currency loans, when tens of percent of the debt burden rose overnight through devaluation and floating. Secondly, the level of interest rates was very high at all, between 15 and 20 % in many loans, and the rapid cut-off in exports, along with these financial market problems, followed by over-indebtedness, then a rapid deterioration in asset values, in particular business assets and real estate. It was then that the banks, bank supporters or not, largely resolved which companies survived and which did not. And this, after all, resulted in these bitternesss of two decades, even three decades, when some entrepreneurs felt that they were sacrificed and someone else who had been in a similar situation was rescued by these bank decisions. Similarly, the loss of asset values in under-subscribed transactions was a common phenomenon. Such problems must now be prevented in this economic crisis. The situation is different in that, as a general rule, these solutions are made by the authorities when granting business aid, and it is important to ensure that companies are treated equally and that no government organisation now decides unfairly what companies are left standing and what are not. So this is something we should pay attention to. Finally, this regional differentiation. We in Finland should also think that these measures can be scaled quite differently, not only in relation to the Uusimaa, but also in relation to different regions. From that Czech Republic, I noticed that a regional experiment has also been launched on this issue.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u76	Mr President! Up to now, Finland has been very successful in stopping the corona epidemic, and in the Nordic comparison we can manage both in terms of intensive care and mortality rates. The financial impact of the corona crisis has also been rapidly accompanied by very important support measures, which are now being dealt with in the context of the major amending budget. It is important to support and ensure, as best as possible, the operating conditions of companies in particular now. We have had to act quite quickly on a large brush at first, and it has been said that it is not possible to blame every company's background with the same degree of accuracy as it would in another situation. This is appropriate because these aids must be mobilised quickly. However, while this crisis is still going on, it is worth assessing how we can better channel support to those companies that genuinely need them, who have been viable before this crisis, and then actually are in sectors that are particularly affected by this. This has been particularly the case in the service sector. On the other hand, this crisis has not hit every industry, such as the food industry and the food trade, and it has certainly increased the turnover of the food trade as restaurant visits have dwindled and people are home. It is very important that culture is also supported. Just as we have had background figures on the multiplier effects of a few festivals, for example, they are very important regionally and indeed not just for festival organisers, but for all entrepreneurs and communities that benefit from it. Now we know for sure, and it can be estimated that although some restrictive measures can be dismantled, such large mass events are likely to be the last that can be opened up, and such a dismantling operation is certainly not in sight at the moment, so it is very important to take into account how these next budgets and interventions can take even more account of culture and events. It is really great that we now have a focus on culture, sport and a little on youth work. It must then be noted that public transport, for example, is in severe difficulties, traffic is restricted. Early childhood education fees burden municipalities when they are compensated for people, which is necessary and right when people are concerned about the care and upbringing of children at home. Then, of course, in the amending budget, health expenditure is also one of the most important targets for additional support, and additional funds have been allocated to protective equipment in particular. It is also important to be prepared in sufficient time to further increase the level of diagnostics and testing. That, too, is what the Hospital Districts have now said to the Committee on Finance. We should have the very easy-to-use low-threshold testing capacity from the point of view that this epidemic is certainly not going to end here, but that there may be new waves that will give us some time to increase our capabilities. It is important, then, to be on the move in time for them too. It is also very important to be on the move in time for the vaccine. I am a little surprised at the views and speeches which now deeply regret these international cooperation dimensions and possible support measures. It is absolutely essential that we work together at both EU and international level to get this epidemic under control. I'm sure it won't be possible from here in Finland alone. International research cooperation, the development of mobile technology should also be done and in good time. In addition, THL has now announced today that it would be good for everyone to have masks. I'm sure we'll have to prepare for this, too. They do not necessarily compete with these masks, which are currently very difficult to access. In these words, I hope that at the moment companies have received the support needed to cope adequately with this crisis, and that, on the basis of assessments by both the Bank of Finland and other experts, it will really be assessed what kind of preparedness measures need to be taken, that the economic and human impact of this epidemic will be minimised. It is now still estimated that if the epidemic can be contained, suppressed in time, the economic impact will be smaller. Indeed, it requires many measures, the testing capacity, it requires diagnostics and so on, so these are certainly measures that will then be evaluated in the future. If this epidemic lasts for a very long time, the economic impact will be very significant and difficult to bear for any economy. Indeed, we will have to put up with the vaccine in some way, but if we can stop the epidemic, as it seems to be possible in Finland now, then we will certainly be able to take more limited measures and otherwise open up this society.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u77	Mr President! The government should be commended and recognised for this amending budget. This includes many very important proposals. Of course, it has to be said here that this historic massive amending budget and, at the same time, the great step towards debt is, of course, an unfortunate thing for all of us, and this government, as well as future governments, will have to bear responsibility for this, and in the future we will certainly have to make very difficult decisions as far as this corona epidemic is going to go and the more we will have to deal with additional budgets and proposals of this kind here. I would particularly like to mention here a proposal in which a person absent from work who is unpaid due to a corona virus epidemic may receive temporary support. Many families have concluded that a parent who is unable to work at a distance has been left unpaid free to care for the early childhood education of a child or for the remote education and care of children in the first grades of primary school, and it is great that there is also financial support for this. The longer the epidemic lasts, the more difficult the economic situation and the recession will be for the whole of society, and it is therefore important that we now step up the efforts that can speed up the process of overcoming this epidemic, and above all that means increasing this testing capacity as well as tracing and imposing restrictions on those who are exposed to quarantine and, of course, those who are affected. I expected that this amending budget would also have had a budget for this increase in testing capacity, because there is certainly a need for it. At the moment, the threshold for testing has been set really high, and now we saw that at Easter, even less people sought these tests than the capacity would have been. But in practice it is because the threshold has been set really high, and simply contacting these telephone numbers, which provide information about testing, is difficult in practice. In other words, this threshold would need to be significantly lowered and the testing capacity strongly increased. I personally attach great importance to this proposal to increase the purchase and purchase of protective equipment. Indeed, at the moment we are in a situation where there is constant concern about the lack of protection from hospitals, dental care and home care, which exposes both staff and patients to life risk. Of course, these failed Chinese trades of the Security of Supply Agency, the twilight mess associated with them, need to be cleared up — and they have now become information about the Ministry of Employment and the Economy’s information conference, which means that some of these trades are likely to be dismantled — but it should be noted that there is still a huge need for fast access to protective material on the ground. In Italy, dozens of doctors and nurses have died of corona infection, many of whom have been relatively elderly, at risk and inadequately protected. I received a message from a doctor treating coronavirus patients saying that ‘nowhere in his life has he ever been a rebel’. But then I went on to say:‘Now I I am very concerned about the adequacy of And he goes on to say:’Onoutoa,that homecare is recommended to use masks All the actual mask numbers know that there So this is about the reality in which these doctors and nurses have to do their work, and it also creates conflicts among the health care staff. Of course, it is of paramount importance to have these masks in health care, but I would also think it very important that the government issue a recommendation on the use of masks in public places and that self-made masks or, for example, folded scarf can also be used. And it is gratifying that Markku Tervahauta, Director General of the National Institute for Health and Welfare
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u78	Mr President! This amending budget has already been examined here today from a very large number of sides. After all, the amounts are shockingly large. “When brothering a brother but paying a brother’s I suppose that applies even when the country is the borrower, but, as has been said, these targets are very necessary. Today's speeches, Mr President, have also highlighted the importance of cooperation between the government and the opposition, and that is undoubtedly what this situation needs, because these decisions, these amounts, which we are talking about here, have a multiplier effect over the years, even decades. Since the years are consecutive and it is not always known which government and which parties will take care of matters in the future, this also means that this kind of open dialogue between parties is necessary. In this debate, the Coalition Party has raised a great deal of the matter of restaurant entrepreneurs. As has been said, Parliament has already expressed quite unanimously that, given that these decisions are very difficult for restaurant entrepreneurs and that we, by law, prevent the pursuit of a business, it is clear that compensation must be found. These protective equipment, which Mr Räsänen spoke about in the previous speech, are essential. Now that this is where the training has been paid in the Security of Supply Centre, perhaps we will learn from this and see to it that we get material from abroad, but also domestic production started as quickly as possible. One thing that, perhaps at the end of the evening, can be brought to the fore, as it were, is the government's plan for dealing with this crisis and the epidemic. Of course, there are many elements here that are difficult to predict — we are faced with an exceptional situation — but now that the government has strengthened its compositions, it is hoped that all the best experts will have been put in place, and yet somehow it would seem that the plan on how to move forward is still lacking. This is more like going day by day, tomorrow is Wednesday, then Thursday, Friday. In a situation in which Finns are quite prepared to do their own duty, now to the government, as a friendly wish of this kind, I propose to be frozen in order to be able to tell what the alternative prospects will be, for example, over the next few months. There has not really been such an explanation, but the time has already come. A good example is this closure of Uusimaa, which will now be discussed this evening, tomorrow, because it will be decided on. This also has to do with the whole. There are constitutional issues that should be taken into account, but whatever the solution is now, that too must be justified by the government's plan. If we end up with Option A, what are the consequences? If a different decision is made, how will it be done to keep the epidemic in check? In any case, Mr President, the future will look that way, at least now, if I begin to predict myself that these restrictions will be phased out. Perhaps at some point, when the epidemic is progressing, there will be a situation where some restrictions will have to be reinstated, but from an economic point of view this is a very challenging cross-check, and that means that at some point we will inevitably have to make the decision that we have to open things up in order to facilitate this economic situation — it involves questions relating to livelihoods, it involves issues relating to schools — and then we will have to move forward in a planned way. Finally, Mr President, this amending budget is nevertheless a well-founded whole. Now that I have understood that the supplementary budgets will continue in May, there must be a clear ABC plan at the latest on how Finland will proceed for the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u79	Ärade Herr Talman! Tillagsbudget är exceptionellt stor, den största någons, men så lever vi nu också i en exceptionellt svår tid med enorm osäkerhet för economist. Jag har talat med många företagare de senaste veckorna. Många har variantt uppgivna och bedrövade. De har bajattat om sömnsvårigheter och hur de har fått permittera och säga upp många anstallda. Vissa har gråt. Många är nu rädda för sin butik, för sin restaurant, för sitt företag, för sina livsverk. Jag har min största sympathi och medkansla med alla de som drabbas, och vi måste göra allt vi kan för att hjälpa dem igenom krisen så att vi har företag då krisen tar slut — för den kommer att ta slut. De flesta har bäättat för mig att de har buffertar och planer för en eventuell nedgång, men ingen hade municipalities förestella sig att omsättningen skulle gå från hundra percentage till nästan noll procent. De flesta har variety med om nedgångar förr, men nän nän ingen har variety med om att allt torvat upp över en natt. Det är inte enbart små företag som drabbas, utan också stora, beroende på Vilken sector man verkar inom. En sector som är hårt drabbad är transportbranschen, såväl bussbolag, flygbolag som rederier. De garantier som staten gått in med för Finnair är livsviktiga för att trygga att Finland har ett flygbolag kvar effecter krisen och som kan hålla förbindelser öppna igen, då de kan öppnas. Trots att bolagets ekonomiska situation var stark och starkare i jämförelse med många av sina kkonkurrenter så skulle inget flygbolag klara sig igenom den ar krisen utan statliga lånegarantier. Precis moss sak gäller passagerarredererna. Även om de finländska rederierna har mycket starka balansräkningar så är det avbräck som nu finns i största delen av trafiken enormt effectsom kasflödena nänt har torka upp. Av den anledningen är de 600 milioner euro som finns i statsgarantier, och kopplat i den turväggsbudgeten för rederier som är viktiga för försörjningsberedskapen, alldeles livsviktiga. För utan dem skulle många rederier inte överlevava utan att behöva avyttra tillgångar, som till exempel fartyg. Det skullle reserve en disaster inte bara för rederierna utan också för staten. Den underliggande verksamheten är sund och fartygen är livsviktiga för Finlands försörjningsberedskap. Finland är en ö i Europa, ärade talman, och vi behöver rederier som sköter transporter till och från Finland. I see 90 percent av utrikeshandeln går med fartyg till sjöss. Också på passagerarferorna går enorma mängder gods och frakt varenda dag med regelbundna tidtabeller. På de fartygen går styckegods såsom livsmedel och läkemedel. Utan den trafiken skulle det snabbt bli tomt på butikshyllorna. Av den anledningen är det också den trafik som Försörjningsberedskapscenteren upphandlat mycket betydelseful i detta lage. Statsgarantierna på 600 million euro är en stor summa, men förhoppningsvis kommer de pengarna bara behöva reserve just garantier och inte användas som stöd. Det är den utgångspunkten som vi har, och då blir det inte Heller någon kostnad, aven om de nu är helt avgörande för rederiernas stabilitet. Men av den anledningen skulle det också vara viktigt att stödja rederierna på ett ätt sätt så att de kan återhämta sig snabbare då krisen är förbi. Ett sådant jätt skullä att Slopa farledsavgifterna. Det är något som vårt grannland Estland redan har gjort. Farledsavgifterna brode slopas också i Finland och nones för detta år, vilket jag hoppas att regeringen kan återkomma till i samband med den tredje tillagsbudgeten. Det skulle inte bara reserve ett stöd för rederierna utan framför allt ett stöd för exportindustrin, bland you give skogsindustri. Det skulle också vara viktigt för mindre rederier att försnabba utbetalningen av sjöfartsstöden. Här talar vi inte om någon förhöjning, utan enbart ett försnabbande förfarande som skulle hjälpa med den liquidten som just nuär i kris. Irade the Talman! Krisen kommer också sutta djupa spår i statsfinanserna. Hur djupa vet vi inte annu. De minskade katteintäkterna kommer göra att Ålands klumpsum nu prognostiseras att sjunka med nistan 30 million euro bara i år — enorm summa för Åland, som heltåterspeglar läget för statsekonomien. Den arv nedgången är exceptionell eftersom den kommer sammanfalla med en kris också för den kommunala economist. Det gör att man också borde skapa verktyg för att också åländska företag kan komma åt de instrument som nu ordnas via Business Finland, också med utmärkta incitament i den raus tillagsbudgeten på 250 million euro. Det finns inget hinter för att låta Business Finland också töda åländska företag under denna kris, men för detta behövs politisk grain. De verktyg som Business Finland snabbt utarbetat skulle göra det snabbt också för åländska företag att få tillgång till stöd och också hjälpa dem över krisen. Den auri krissen kommer att bli tuff för valdigt många, men krisen kommer att ta slut förr eller senare. Då behöver vi både företag och arbetstagare som finns kvar och som snabbt kan vara med och köra upp economist. Då kan ekonomin också snabbt återhämta sig. Därför är de insantser som kommer med den raus tillaggsbudgeten, både denna och den förra, otroligt viktiga, aven om vi vet att ytterligare innser kommenter att behövas då läget hela tiden förändras. Irade the Talman! Avslutningsvis: Det är är som örkast innan det ljusnar, och det är onekligen örkt just nu och kan ännu bli örkare. Men för varje dag som går är vi samtidigt närmare en ljusning, för i Slutet av tunnel finns det alltid ljus. Vi kommer att ta oss igenom också denna kris. — Tack.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u80	Mr President! Here the previous speeches made a few words about this additional budget and the situation we are in at the moment. This exceptional situation has been well highlighted here in previous speeches and also the debt-taking that we are facing at the moment. I am perplexed and, in fact, horrified by the metaphors used by many Members of Parliament this evening in this Chamber, how this additional budget is historically large and, as it were, has sought justification for these actions through how much money is now being spent. Of course, this expenditure is necessary: protective equipment, support for businesses, saving jobs. We are in this situation now, but at the same time we must remember that every euro of debt that has been taken up today is yet another additional piece of work in the future. We know that Finland's public finances are not in good shape at the moment in the sense that we lived through ten years of slow growth and past governments, parliaments were not able to collect such, say, protect or buffer on public finances, which could be used again at the moment, now that the crisis has hit us, but in practice our public finances are very vulnerable, and it is also worth remembering that debt is going to be very large. Mr. Speaker! Earlier in the debate, I used to describe the fact that this second additional budget, now that we are living on April 2020, has already taken on more debt than it was in the worst year of the financial crisis in 2010, when government borrowing was around EUR 11 billion. This year it will be over 12 billion, and we will only be living on April, and we are just at the very beginning of this crisis and we do not know what is yet to come. But, Mr President, if we are to anticipate a little here, it will not be impossible at all for the government alone to start with a 20-digit figure — when we move on a year, they are, once and for all, huge figures. Mr. Speaker! Just a few more brief remarks. First of all, the government programme. It is clear to me that, in this situation, the government must deal with this acute crisis — to ensure that companies do not go bankrupt, to save people’s jobs — but, at the same time, to be able to act quickly now to support employment and to support that future economic growth, but also to build the more sustainable economic base. In that sense, I did wonder a lot about the type of decisions that were taken when this additional budget was made, that is to say, there was a significant increase in expenditure for the years to come. I think that this government, or its government programme, is beginning to be in the condition that it can be sunk to the bottom of the Baltic Sea, because practically the whole economic base has gone. I think that in August, in practice, the government is going to have to redefine the entire government programme and also put its economy in order, and I think that this is absolutely necessary and also right in that respect. So the government should also live as taught here. Mr. Speaker! Let me say something about this situation in restaurants, which has been discussed a great deal today. While we can, and I can, mainly support these government activities, one big wonder has been where the support from restaurants has been. Parliament unanimously — unanimously — required that the costs of this exceptional restriction on business activities be compensated for by restaurants and restaurant companies, and the Minister for Finance has simply stated that yes, restaurant entrepreneurs can apply for these same subsidies, which are also intended for other companies, but, Mr President, that is not the answer to these entrepreneurs. That is why we will take care of this and ask the government, because the government will bring in a package to support the restaurant companies, to save jobs in the service sectors, which Parliament has unanimously demanded and which has not been included in this additional budget. It must be brought into this Chamber and, Mr President, we will be holding a debate on it and asking how it is possible that such a key issue, such a decision — a decision that Parliament has yet confirmed and required the government to prepare it — could have fallen out of this package.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u81	Mr President! First of all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Committee on Finance, Mr Koskinen, for these clarifications and for the promise that there will be enough money for the so-called euro 2000 cash grant for sole entrepreneurs, and also for the direct clarification that the entrepreneur who will perhaps be coming for this income support for the entrepreneur over a period of two to three months, which was provided for last week, will also be entitled to this EUR 2000 grant. After all, most municipalities are waiting for these guidelines, and it has been unclear to me at least, as well as to a lot of entrepreneurs — on the basis of the feedback I have received — whether it can also be applied for EUR 2000. Then, in this situation, we are also partly because of the failure of these structural reforms and, on the other hand, this last month, which we have been struggling with in this corona crisis, in the corona swamp, is also an indication that the political system, under duress, is capable of making very rapid decisions. And now that we are all aware of the needs of both the labour market and social security and many other structural reforms, I would like us to be able to combine the opposition-government borders and move these structural reforms forward quickly. In many situations, we see that our society is still too administrative. Now that many forms of aid and similar applications from the service voucher to the various kinds of subsidies are made electronically and from an individual's point of view, there is no need for the individual to consider which ministry or administrative sector is responsible for it, but when we take these decisions, we have such barriers and silos and we will not be able to cross those administrative boundaries in this preparation, although on the other hand they should no longer be there at all. Mr President! Now for these corporate situations. So it has been said here that these loans guaranteed by Finnvera and loans from the Ely Centres are those significant sums. Unfortunately, however, many entrepreneurs say that there will be no relief from that side. It is either that the criteria for this equity capital are too strict, or there has also been feedback from entrepreneurs that when Finnvera's guaranteed loans are turned on not only bank margins but also Finnvera's margins, they are much more expensive than what they would have been in the normal situation, but now, of course, the banks are not offering that normal funding. Thus, entrepreneurs have argued, for example, that one option would be that the loans guaranteed by Finnvera would be longer than these five years, or that this interest rate for Finnvera would be lower, or that in the first years there would be a minimum interest rate and then only after that the interest rate would be higher, and therefore the money guaranteed by Finnvera would also be so-called marketable compared to the normal situation. It is difficult for companies to think if there is no prospect of a return to a more normal situation — when it will probably not be normal next year, at least to the extent that it has been available to many service companies last year — that why would one be able to borrow it with a repayment period of between 4 and 5 years, when, even in normal circumstances, many business loans will be available with a payment period of between 7 and 10 years? Then there are these self-employed: in general, one third of entrepreneurs are women, but there are a large number of self-employed people, especially women, and in that sense the support measure is needed on that side. Mr President! It is important that things are done, and if they are done too little or too late, then this will be a national tragedy, but if we do them in a timely manner and more, perhaps even too much, this is all a chance to become a survival story — a survival story similar to that of the winter war, and that story of the winter war will be remembered after decades, and its strength and uniqueness and guts will be known even throughout Europe. And if, in this situation, someone receives so - called too cheap money, it is a rather cheap price to pay for saving thousands of businesses and tens of thousands of jobs. That is why we need to take effective, responsible measures in this Chamber, preferably too much and in time and more than then too little and too late, so that we can get to the path of survival and not make this a tragedy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u82	Mr President! Unfortunately, messages from the business field indicate that these business support systems are too complex, mainly dim-like, bureaucratic and very slow. The decisions will take too long and they will not be made, and if any company fails, it will go bankrupt as it waits for a positive decision to be taken, then you can actually say that the government and this created system have failed and failed. There should be faster, faster-acting measures, and the VAT refund proposed by the Convention, for example, for the first year, would be a very effective and rapid way of doing so. According to our information, it would be available for use even within a month, and I think it will soon be the case that a month ago we have presented it for the first time. Now we are going to do it again, and in a month's time we will have to find out again that nothing has happened, and at that point, unfortunately, in this country, we have also seen business contacts. Another problem with these support schemes is that companies must not have had any problems with their own activities. It's kind of like a school offering a tutoring, but it's a condition that you have to have an excellent grade that you can get a tutoring. I myself wish for humanity in these too. We may have very viable, good companies that would have been able to make a profit without the impact of this interest rate, and these too should be able to be picked up from this large, employable group of entrepreneurs to be eligible for subsidies. Then the big question is this protective gear thing. Today we have discussed an additional EUR 600 million in funding for these equipment, and now the whole of Finland is amazed at what this money is being spent on. The IGC, the Security of Supply Agency, has been keeping information today. There was not one minister present when those responsible were needed. The officials were alone in that information. It has been reported that more than 3,000 providers have been present for these protective devices. Were the two best ones really chosen, or on what basis were these publicized businessmen and business women selected from over three thousand bidders for this acquisition? I read that the Ministry of Employment and the Economy, for the most part, is satisfied with the report, but I do not think that Parliament should be satisfied. The question is: what was the government's responsibility for this acquisition? Or is it really the case that in Finland the Emergency Supply Agency makes such purchases without the guidance of the Ministry and the Minister? Now we are giving them EUR 600 million more money for these procurements, and is the Security of Supply Agency again making these purchases without any political guidance through the Minister and through the Ministry? This issue must be clarified in Parliament and, in one way or another, it will certainly be clarified in this House, and political responsibility will then also be examined. Mr President! Restaurants and cafes are their own big question, which has caused wonder. Prime Minister Sanna Marin has stated that specific support for the restaurant sector and cafes will be explored. The report by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs is binding in its wording, and it is now asked why the government has acted contrary to the position adopted unanimously by Parliament, as I recall. This is an infringement of the freedom to conduct a business and the protection of property in the restaurant sector, and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has drawn attention to this in its own opinion and has made the binding wording that these losses should be restored to the restaurant industry. That is why the delegation as a responsible party has also followed the opinion of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and, in response to its own protest, has today taken the initiative to present a total of EUR 200 million for the first month of support for the restaurant and café sector, and in May we will need an additional amount of at least the same size if this barrage of restaurants continues for two months. Mr President! I am also concerned about the discussions that have taken place with regard to the bulkheads of Uusimaa. Is it really the case that the situation is now such that it is time to dismantle the restrictions on Uusimaa and move on to free movement again? Personally, I think that if the demolition is finally completed, we should do far more stringent measures, such as those proposed by HUS Director Lasse Lehtonen, to Uusimaa, for example, inside Ring Three. He has said that a strict three-week restriction is needed here in the capital region, for example, where two-person meetings would be maximum and there would be a significant restriction on the movement outside, as has been done in many European countries, and, for example, the introduction of mandatory respiratory protection in shops. It seems that there are plenty of them in Finland now, and they are good for stores.
ParlaMint-FI_2020-04-14-ps-53.u83	Mr President! The above representatives of Marttinen, Talvitie and Heinonen spoke so well that they did not need to review their points of view. There have been very important points here made by them, but just a few more aspects of this overall crisis and its total price tag. It will, of course, be very great both in human terms and certainly in economic terms in particular, but with the financial contributions we are making now in this acute crisis, we will certainly be able to keep the total price tag smaller when, overall, we are able to deal with this pandemic situation with as little human damage as possible. The borrowing rate is increasing and the Ministry of Finance has presented substantial aggregate amounts for this debt. Nevertheless, it is justified to make certain additional proposals in this situation, and Mr Heinonen has already spoken well about restaurants, for example. I would also think it important that agriculture, which is also living in a very uncertain time, should receive such a separate additional support for the growing season to ensure domestic food production. Mr President! One detail that I do not think has yet been clearly identified in this debate is that this is an additional EUR 5 million in international vaccine research, but there has been information in the media today that Finnish world-level top researchers could be involved in carrying out this experimental corona vaccine, which could be achieved even in the coming summer, so that it can be used experimentally if this is the case, for example, for certain risk groups. Their aim has been precisely to make such an open source patent-free vaccine – as would be called in information technology – available to Finland at national and national level, if it were decided to do so. I would like to see some serious consideration now that this kind of activity, which at its start-up stage could perhaps require some hundreds of thousands of euros of money, could be put into the necessary effort to mobilise domestic vaccine production. That would be at least one option in our toolbox. Since many international experts at the moment estimate that these really strong restrictions, which have been imposed globally and in Finland too — and it is good that even in Finland they have been done a little earlier and a little more than too little and too late, in order to keep the human cost of this epidemic reasonable — will really only end when the vaccine is there, then it would be worth being prepared to invest in the domestic possibility of producing vaccines as well. By the way, when the whole bill is calculated in tens of billions, if some hundreds of thousands of seed money were to mobilise such activity, I think it would be wise to invest in it. Then we would have the tactical tools that will then be able to implement that government's overall strategy at a time when, of course, the government will now be able to present to Parliament its strategy on how to move forward after this acute crisis has been taken over.
